ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. The first point is "to name the delegation of the Euputian parliamental legislature which will present the initiative in the production of a Bill of Sales for the victims of the Amantos." We should go to the vote, but I've been asked for a little pause for five minutes before we started. So, five minutes, whatever time you need. It was nine o'clock in the morning and thirty-seven. At nine-eight o'clock in the morning the meeting resumed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u1	Good morning again. We'll follow the entire meeting. We're going to turn our first point to the last point. So we begin with the second point on the subject list: "To appoint members of the Council of Memory, Collaboration, and Human Rights. Discipline and final resolution. In accordance with the article 234.6 of the Eusual Act, each member of the legislature is within five minutes. Do you think any of the teams would like to join? No. According to the article 96.3.b of the ruler, the choice will be made by cards. However, considering other precedents and no alternative candidates, I propose to make the nomination without vote. Any congressman, any problems? No. So, Mr. Carmelo Barroja, Mr José Antonio Pastor Garrido, Mr. Zamura Ibarus, Madame Iria Pilate, and Monsieur Arzuga Gumuzius of memory, the manager of the Human Rights Institute of Life and Human Rights, we name members of the Council. Third point in theme list: "Mary, María del López de Ocariz lópez de Munez de Munai, a member of the American laws of the Basque Group, with the project of opening the tram in the south of Gastine. Discipline and final resolution. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, yours is to introduce and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u2	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Counselors, Mr. Lehendakari. I present this motion as a result of the inquiry that took place last day 16th in this Chamber, regarding the plan of extension of the tram in Vitoria; Angulema-Universidad extension (what we call south of Vitoria). Project for the extension of the tram that is prior to the plan for sustainable mobility of public space. I am talking about this plan of the City Council of Vitoria because it is the argument that EH Bildu uses to support this extension of the tram. It is an excuse that it is a fallacy, because this project was carried out without attending to a prior diagnosis of mobility needs, without taking into account the infrastructures existing at the moment, and without the citizen participation required. This mobility plan abandons the idea of the tram for the north-south axis and proposes high-capacity buses. And especially it is proposed the extension of the tram where really are the needs, which is in Salburua and Zabalgana. This project lacks citizen participation. There was an initial project, which was the bridge of San Cristóbal-Aretxabaleta, which is discarded because the AVE is buried. Mobility plan in which it is agreed to establish channels of participation for the implementation of the public transport network in Vitoria, where it is also proposed to create a public transport commission and a forum for citizen participation; to involve neighbourhood associations to reach agreement on the public transport network. This plan makes a reality report and collects the uncertainty of the mobility model, as the EVA arrives and no details are known. It recommends that the entry of the AVE and the mobility of this area be jointly addressed in order to be able to manage the consequences in terms of generating and attracting new mobility. Ladies and gentlemen, the neighbours of San Cristóbal and Adurza oppose this infrastructure because it does not meet their demand for mobility. Because they demand connections with industrial polygons, because they demand direct connection with new queries from Vitoria, from the Txagorritxu area, which does not provide them with the tram. If you provide them with the bus line, line 8. Nor do people who go to campus demand this service, because they arrive earlier from the current stops of Angulema and Parliament. This project does not benefit the workers of Osakidetza who are in the environment. The only thing that affects them is negatively, in the more than two hundred parking spaces that will be eliminated. Project that does not reduce the high volume of motorized vehicles transiting the streets of San Cristóbal and Adurza. It does substantially reduce sidewalks, remaining in two meters or less in many cases. In many areas, trees disappear considerably. All this denaturalizes the streets and reduces quality to the public space, condemning the neighbors to more noise, more smoke, more heat, more dust, more insecurity. I would like to recall that one of the main objectives of the mobility plan of the City of Vitoria, which then gave rise to the Pact for Mobility, was precisely to provide a public space of quality that can accommodate accessible, comfortable and safe social and economic life, expanding pedestrian spaces and reducing the space dedicated to motorized transport, in order to improve the conditions of acoustic comfort and air quality. Hey, this was the mobility plan! And really what is achieved with the implementation of infrastructure in the neighborhoods of San Cristóbal and Adurza is quite the opposite. Both in the mobility plan and in the traffic ordinance of the City of Vitoria the citizen, the pedestrian, is priority ahead of all other modes of mobility. People. This government has repeated it to the point of satiety, Mr Lehendakari has repeated it countless times: people, priority. In this infrastructure people are not the priority. People are going to suffer negative consequences for their quality of life. Both the Vitoria 2008 Sustainable Public Space Mobility Plan and the Vitoria 2014 Green Infrastructure Strategy, as well as the 2050 Basque Climate Change Strategy, promote pedestrian mobility, expanding sidewalks, the presence of trees and green areas in the urban area, as a regulatory element for the environmental quality of our cities and urban helmets. And in all this procedure there has been no consideration of the burial of the Renfe track, which fully coincide... Here we refer to what the Colegio Oficial de Arquitectos says, which we already said in the inquiry: "Any decision affecting the tram must be subject to the project of underground of the Madrid-Irun railway in its passage through Vitoria, since the new urban step will substantially modify the connections between the current neighborhoods, disappearing bridges and passages, and will constitute a very suitable corridor to install a tram that connects in straight line several areas of Vitoria, from Salburua to Zabalgana, passing through the center, without causing negative effects". Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that these elements should reflect on the Government, which is what we are going to ask in our motion. We also said in the inquiry that this project must comply with the specific rules on railways, Law 30/2015. On the one hand, it is necessary to modify the General Plan of Urban Planning of Vitoria to collect the figure of the general railway system, as required by law. A solution must be given with the modification of the general plan of Vitoria, because it does not admit the railway as a vehicle that can pass through the streets. This is essential to change it. A number of areas are also to be occupied by this infrastructure and should be classified as a use for the general rail system. This occurs at various points of the route, which are scarcely 1,400 meters. This will be, as I said, at various points. And we must modify sidewalks, free spaces, green spaces, new bicycle lane, correct the inadaptation of the current planning to the approved layout, in the environment of the Triana bridge, in the source of Health, in the Military Hospital, in the PERI 5 of the university complex. On May 11, 2017, the decree to formulate the amendment of the general plan to establish and delimit a general tram system in the City Hall of Vitoria was published, but before this, on April 24, the Basque Government already solved that, putting to public information the beginning of the expropriations. Listen, without approving an amendment to the general plan we are already starting the expropriation procedure! On 5 June 2017, without respecting the previous deadline, Euskal Trenbide Sarea tendered the work of the construction project to extend the tram to the university. Hey, what a hurry! What an emergency! But why this speed, jumping the procedures, overlapping the deadlines? All this without having published the approval of the constructive project. We understand that if the approval of the constructive project is not published, the declaration of public utility or social interest, the need for expropriation and the declaration of urgency thereof cannot be understood to be produced. In the constructive project, important changes are made regarding the information study: two lanes of circulation instead of one, greater cut-off of sidewalks, greater number of trees to be cut, greater condition of the bridge of the Trianas and Source of Health. All this, by not publishing, is hidden from the citizens. Where's the transparency? How have they been able to make allegations about these very important changes? They couldn't! Gentlemen of transparency, what is this? So much so that they like to compare themselves to other autonomous communities... I can tell you that the issue of the distance to be respected, according to Law 38/2015, of the Railway Sector, requires a width of at least two meters of pedestrian routes in the urban environment. These measures must be respected to ensure the transit of pedestrians, also for reasons of safety of pedestrians in the face of possible accidents or derailments of the tram, which have already occurred in Vitoria. The tramway does not allow the passage of firemen, ambulances or other emergency services without cutting off the service and in some case the chain. And, as I told you, so much that they like to compare, for example Catalonia has eight meters of servitude and twenty-five of area of affection, Valencia has eight meters of servitude and fifty of zone of affection... This project plans to build the platform less than four meters from the houses, between one and four meters. This is a real barbarity. I don't know if it's illegal... As the counselor said, it's not illegal. Man, I don't know whether it's legal or not, but what it is is an invasion of pedestrian space and of one's own neighborhood-use activity that is fully invaded. We could see last week, very close to here, how, by having to enter an ambulance at the height of the mall, we had to stop the trams, the whole circulation, because there is no access, ladies and gentlemen, the truth. The counselor told us the other day not to tell her about the mobility plan of the city of Vitoria. I just want to remind you that inter-agency coordination is essential. The mobility plan for urban helmets should be coordinated with those institutions that promote mobility infrastructures. Therefore, it is clear that mobility plans are directly related, and what is agreed in the mobility plans, to the infrastructures promoted by the Basque Government. And that has to be the result of coordination, because these mobility plans have been the result of the agreement of the entire representation of the city of Vitoria, in this case the Vitoria mobility plan. Agreements. The mobility plan says that it is recommended that both actions, the extension of the tram and the underground should be dealt with jointly. He says so expressly. And he also said, "It's that the mobility plan does pick up the south tram." The mobility plan marks preferences and emergencies: first, the Salburua-Zabalgana tram; second, the high-performance buses; third, that the extension of the tram to the south area is studied in coordination with the underground of the Renfe tracks. So that's what the mobility plan says and that's what you remember. And let's not turn the words around. That's the reality. This draft was said by the adviser who has been submitted to information. The constructive project, which has very important modifications, is not known to citizens, because it has not been published in the newsletter. It is hidden for citizens and without period of allegations. The allegations have not been made to the definitive construction project, which has important modifications, so that there are two ways, that the bridge of the Trianas expands fourteen meters and strengthens the structure... Who's been able to make any allegations about that? No one! No, because he hasn't been informed of that. Therefore, there is no transparent information on this project. We were told by the Counsellor of the Convention of 4 May 2006, agreement for the start of the implementation of the tram in Vitoria. It refers to an agreement 11 years ago. So, he says, that's where the government has rescued this project. Look, in eleven years, how many requests from the citizens of San Cristóbal and Adurza have there been for the tram to be installed in this area? None. Zero. Why, after eleven years without encouraging the neighbors or anyone else in the environment to expand the tram, do they pull this project out of the joke and put it in motion? Why? Well, look, my impression – and the counselor did not rebut it to me – is the need to do public work. That's it, need. And where? Well, where it falls! And where did it fall? In San Cristóbal and Adurza, which is only causing harm, there is no benefit to the citizens, who are explaining it, who do not meet their mobility needs. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is a project rescued by the Government with an unwarranted urgency, run over, a flight forward without seeing the consequences. And we don't understand. And it doesn't justify it. And it tells us it's a 2006 deal. Something we've learned from 2006 here, something we've learned! That in certain street widths the tram is a high risk to pedestrians and citizens, very high. And we have it here a few meters away, in the funnel at the height of number 10 of General Álava Street, where the problems... almost every week there is a high-risk case, almost every week. So, ladies and gentlemen, what are we talking about? Why are we working on this? Because they don't justify it! The only justification given by the counsellor is that this appears in a 2006 convention. Hey, haven't we learned anything all this time? Well, the truth is, it's a shame. We have learned something: that the tram will age fatally, especially in some streets. Now it turns out that every time it rains, General Álava Street, in addition to having the tram, has a river, which you can see as soon as it rains. Why? For the firm has changed, and a curve has been made in which water is accumulated. So now the tramway is much greener: we have a river and a green painted tramway. That's the green of this infrastructure. The councilwoman told us that we want to put this infrastructure on the ground. No, no! We don't want to throw her down. We want to avoid very negative experiences and situations that occur in certain areas of the city centre. This isn't green. Because the tram is green, not everything is green. There are spaces where it becomes an aggressive element and stops being green, and it is a danger to pedestrians. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled a motion which I believe is very respectful of the infrastructure, but in which we ask you to incorporate common sense into this process. And we ask in the motion, first, that "In compliance with the current regulations, the award of the works of extension of the south tram of Vitoria is postponed until the essential modifications of the General Plan of Urban Planning and the three sectoral plans of Vitoria-Gasteiz necessary for the development of the aforementioned project are approved".
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u3	Stop it, please!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u4	Yeah. If you don't mind, I'll finish reading the motion. And secondly we say to him that the project is postponed (that it is postponed; we are not against the work, listen, let's study)... "The project to extend the tramway to the southern area of Vitoria-Gasteiz is postponed and studied together with the underground of the Adif tracks, as agreed in the Plan of Sustainable Mobility and Public Space of Vitoria-Gasteiz". And in the third point we ask that "in the project of extension of the tram the railway safety is guaranteed, Euskal Trenbidea Sarea is urged to comply with the railway legislation and apply a distance of at least eight meters with the buildings in the new railway infrastructures". We believe, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen, that this has a lot of common sense, that we only ask that the law be complied with, and we ask you to support this motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Passing the team that hasn't run any corrections. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u6	Thank you, President, and good morning to you all. Indeed, the matter brought to us today by Mrs López de Ocariz on behalf of the People's Party has already been discussed in the City Hall of Vitoria on several occasions, and in the Basque Parliament through an appearance and an inquiry in the full control of a couple of weeks ago. It seems – so I was able to read, because it was not I who took the subject at that time – that it is intended to conclude in "It is not a no to the tram, but it is a no to this tram project". That's what the platform said when it appeared, and that's what Mrs. López de Ocariz told us today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u7	Red anderea, mesadez. Please, the posters are forbidden. Please, the posters are forbidden. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u8	The People's Party is based on a premise that we all know, but which the Socialist Group certainly does not share. One is the non-necessity of this project, the waste of infrastructure, the safety hazard of pedestrians, noise, smoke, heat and dust. We should be able to answer two questions that my parliamentary group raised during the appearance. One: Does the current public transport system in Vitoria respond to the district of Adurza? And another: is the existing mobility system sufficient to meet citizens' needs today in Vitoria? It surprises the People's Party's refusal to this project, and surprises the non-speaker with arguments in our manipulated opinion. It is true that there is a collective against the project (it is true), but it cannot be said that the neighbors of the neighborhood are against the project, because it is not true. There is a group that has participated at different times in the city council and in Parliament, but it is also true that there are two associations in favour of the arrival of the tram to the district of Adurza. It is true that since the Administration it is committed to sustainable mobility, and it is true that the tram is a means of collective and sustainable public transport. It is true that for the start-up of this infrastructure there will be affected trees, the space of the street will be reduced, and probably during the start-up there will be neighbors who feel discomfort. But it is also true that in order to achieve the balance between progress and the defence of the environment, which is what we have always defended here, there are many conditions; that the distance between the tramway and the end of the street does not undermine citizens' security, and that the benefit of setting up this means of transport is a stake for a more comfortable, healthier and more sustainable city. In addition to these notes, we understand that it is essential, in order to clarify some issues, to make a brief chronological tour of the most important agreements and announcements related to this topic. In 2008 there was a unanimous agreement at the Mobility Forum on a sustainable mobility plan for public space. In this plan there was explicitly the extension of the tram as it passes through this neighborhood. In 2015 there was a unanimous agreement at the City Council of Vitoria (unanimous, including the People's Party) on the adoption of a mobility agreement. And in 2016 there is a ratification of the previous agreement. And in addition to these three concrete quotes, Mrs López de Ocariz, we should not forget that whoever enters the website of the City Council of Vitoria in a clear way, and without trying to search into how complicated the website of an institution can be... I read in text: Year 2015, Javier Maroto announced: "I will present a parliamentary initiative to demand the Basque Government to express its willingness to expand the tramway of Vitoria". Enlargement referred to the unanimous mobility agreement that you and I have both appointed, although we have explained differently. Today is June 2017, and the truth is I don't know if things have changed a lot. He has changed the mayor of the city (he was of the PP and now he is of the PNV). I hope this is not the cause of bringing here a project that is creating an unnecessary social alarm, because you do not explain things as they are. Everything is to be made subject to subterration, when the People's Party, like many other parties, has spoken of subterration. And, since you are ruling in Madrid, let us hope that you will continue to support yourself, that it will be a reality and that the report we have to wait for 2019 will indeed be in favour of the project. Vitoria needs, on the one hand, to bring the university closer to the city, but this is not the reason why the tram gets to the campus of Vitoria, and you know it perfectly well: it is the place from which the ramifications will be created in order to reach the neighborhoods of Salburua and Zabalgana, those needs that you say we do not take into account. We continue to bet on sustainable mobility, which we assume we all bet on. The legal doubts raised as a reason for the refusal of the draft were clarified, answered and explained by the Counsellor, and it can be concluded that there is no legal doubt of the draft. The approach that brings the tram to a neighborhood of the city, in this case to the neighborhood of Adurza, responds to a city project approach. As for other occasions, the country project argument is used. A city that must be interconnected between its neighborhoods and which, of course, does not have as its main object to connect these neighbors with the center, but with the whole city. We don't deny possible conditions, and that's why we bet and we'll bet on the best of projects. A project that ends with as few trees as possible, which understands that the loss of parking will be a reality that responds to the stake for sustainable, public and collective mobility... And, by the way, during Mr Maroto's government, other areas of Vitoria suffered from a lot of parking, and you defended it as something for sustainable mobility, and above all talking about that private transport should not be the option for Victorian citizens. A public initiative with opportunities for financing and modernity. Because, with regard to funding, let us not forget that the Basque Government takes care of 65%, the 17.5 Member of Parliament and the other 17.5 Council. Of the subject we are talking about today, obviously, we all know it, when we started the works in the center of Vitoria there was also reluctance on the part of some. In fact, the tram would have arrived in Vitoria long before it arrived, if not because there were platforms and many people who joined in the no to the tram. Perhaps if we asked Victorian citizens today their opinion about this means of transport, and we don't cheat, I would venture to say that it would be largely positive. We all know the data of users, and everyone, or at least almost everyone, would be able to list the goodness of that project that today is a consolidated reality and not questioned in the city. The initial concerns of the bus lines, the loss of parking lots, the trees with the possibility of cutting, the free space on the sidewalks, and even the noise, have been resolved over time, because they were also raised in the first project of the tram in its passage by General Álava. It is true that all transport systems pose some problem, a problem that is tried to avoid or minimize from the perspective of a global approach of general interest, of city design. That is why the explanation, the defense or criticism, should not rely on what affects me, the distance from my stop, where it leaves me close to the hospital of HUA... Because, by the way, there were also complaints from the citizens of the center of Vitoria, who complained that the bus left them at the door of the hospital of Txagorritxu and the tram made them walk a few meters, that also happened, and today, of course, they are delighted to be able to use the tram, unlike other neighborhoods. The aim is to improve the public transport system, extend a sustainable mobility project, interconnect citizens within the same city and bring neighbourhoods closer together. I will finish this first intervention with some conclusions. The Basque Socialists are committed to sustainable transport within an already defined framework of sustainable mobility. We defend a design from institutions in collective and not particular terms, in that vision I tell you, city vision. We stand by the unanimous agreements reached in the city hall by all the political groups that are part of the municipal corporation. We understand that any project carried out by an administration will ensure that it is the most appropriate, respectful and efficient. We believe that there should be no biased judgements for the defence or criticism of a project, because it is not all the citizens of Adurza who are against the project (there is a collective that yes and two collectives that are in favour, and we recognize that there are many citizens who are not part of collectives). The section of the tram we are talking about today is neither intended to bring the neighbours of Adurza closer to the center nor to reach the university as a final goal. It intends to be an extension of the current stretch from which to continue its growth towards the neighborhoods of Salburua and Zabalgana, which are two of the new neighborhoods, since the other new neighborhood, Lakua, is already connected. The tram in Vitoria is a means of transport defended, supported, used and consolidated. It is a project that must continue within a global project, in a city that is characterized by sustainability and concern for the environment. The same concern Mr. Maroto had when he was mayor of Vitoria, which today seems to be only concerned with the People's Party. And, above all, we should not use projects with unanimous agreements, using non-real lines of argument, which, far from solving problems, create false expectations and frustrations in the citizenry, in this case the Victorian citizenship of the district of Adurza. And I conclude, Madam President, by answering one of the questions that Mrs López de Ocariz asked us: why we are striving to continue with this project. For we strive because we believe it is necessary for the city, because we have a city project, because we do not change our opinion according to the mayor (whether he is in our branch or not), because he attends to sustainable mobility, because it is enlargement to be able to cover the needs of Salburua and Zabalgana. And that is why we will vote against a sham that the People's Party has, using the collectives to try to end a municipal government that, as they continue to do, I think it will be difficult for them to get it back.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u9	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Together, Podemos, Mr. Becerra, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Tejeria, good morning. Our group deeply regrets that this issue of the extension of the Vitoria-Gasteiz tram has had to reach this Parliament, but it is clear that when things go wrong they always have the possibility of ending worse, as seems to be the case. It is clear that every infrastructure has a social and environmental impact that will always generate some kind of opposition in those neighbors who feel damaged by the layout or feel that this infrastructure is more or less comfortable. But what is no longer so common is to have a degree of neighborhood response like the one that is sparking this project, which already has more than 4,000 signatures against it. And these signatures show that something is not being done right. Nor does anyone escape that this civil rejection would possibly have been less if citizens had perceived the existence of a political consensus on the subject, but it is clear that some groups decided to end this consensus a year ago, and to break the agreements that existed on the development of mobility infrastructures in the capital. And from those muds come these muds. The result: conflict and controversy, where consensus and agreement should prevail. Because the decision to give priority to the extension of the tram to the south, instead of doing so in the east-west direction, towards Salburua and Zabalgana, is a political decision that was taken in the offices, and that was also rushed on the basis of an enlargement project drawn up on the basis of the 2008 mobility plan, when it could really have waited for the evaluation report of this plan that has been published in April 2017. Similarly, it is a matter of urgency that the enlargement project could also have waited to know the outcome of the final agreements to be made on the underground of the railway, because they will undoubtedly greatly transform the mobility of the south of the city. And also, because of the magnitude of the work they are going to have, it is clear that it must be the underground that conditions the tram, and not the tram that conditions the subway. And those rushes in the planning phase have also moved to the implementation phase, with Euskal Trenbide Sarea rejecting most of the allegations and proposals made by the neighborhood, when right now the institutional priority, also of ETS, should be to minimize the social and environmental impact of this infrastructure at those most conflicting points. But I will not finish my speech without referring to the more Kafkian fact of this whole matter, and it is that thanks to the work of the citizen platform today we know that the tram is out of order. Something unusual, no doubt. And even more unusual is the fact that there are voices that advocate that this project can proceed without waiting for the modification of the General Urban Planning Plan to proceed. Obviously, these voices are in a hurry, but somehow this irresponsibility leads the project to a situation of legal uncertainty if less worrying. Because at this point there is no doubt that with this degree of citizen opposition the process of modifying the General Urban Planning Plan will end up being appealed to the courts, who knows for how long and with what end. Therefore, to say, as Mrs Red said, that there is no legal doubt about the project is at least inappropriate. At this point, I would like to ask the proposing group to allow us to vote on its motion for points, because we agree with some of the requests made in it. But I wouldn't want to end without saying clearly that from Elkarrekin we can defend the Vitoria-Gasteiz tram, we do defend its enlargement, but in the east-west direction, as was in the initial agreements. And, with regard to enlargement to the south, under no circumstances do we prejudge what the final route should be, but we are clear that this must be the one with the least social and environmental impact, and that this social and environmental impact must obviously be agreed with the population of the affected neighbourhoods. Because today that impact, greater or lesser, is causing anger and citizen opposition, and the response of the institutions cannot be to look elsewhere. And obviously in this whole matter, what we reject without compromise is the hurry with which the project is being committed, until it is – as I said – an undesirable situation of legal uncertainty in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u11	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Otero, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u12	Good morning, everyone. I'd like to take advantage of the presence of the Tranvía No team here today, it's always very grateful for the volunteer work of the people who are organising, even though you probably don't agree with what we say today. For the third time, in the last two months, to talk about the tram in the parliament. Apart from the law, even at the City Hall, the Basque Country seems to me to have fixed its position at every time he spoke. I'm going to bring a shade or something, but I don't think I'm coming with too much surprise. Mrs. López de Ocariz, I don't know, me, if I had to do what you're doing, the truth is I'd get good colored. Because today we are talking about rabbits in gossip, about unclaimed projects, about a dangerous project, as you said, as if this had just been invented, after what has been sailed and after what the People's Party has sailed on this subject, because the truth is that, when little is done, it is little less than surprising. I am at least surprised, and I imagine that Ana Oregi, also present here and a counselor a year ago, will also be surprised, because the bandage that you have given in very little time, therefore, is at least surprising. You, in the full control of April 8, 2016, two days after it was published, that the informative study of the south enlargement of the tram would come out to public information, you inaugurated in this atrium your intervention saying: "It is never late if the bliss is good, or better late than never." It's better late than never, that the project was done. You said, "Do you know where the stones are? In the City of Vitoria, because the PNV chose wrong" – I understand it meant us – "a bad government for the city, a government for the city of Vitoria with which Vitoria loses and loses the Victorians. And he knows where the stone is on that path" (referring to us). "And you know you're not going to get it, because it's a mortgage government. So, counselor, don't open up electoral propaganda channels when you know they're not viable. I wish they were, I wish the tram would be made." And in 2016 we were talking about the same route, which passed through the bridge of Las Trianas and reached universities. Because that already announced Javier Maroto in February 2015: bridge of Las Trianas. In 2016, the bridge of Las Trianas. And now it turns out that this is a project disaster and it's horrific, and this is not worth anything. I insist, I would be red with shame if I had to say what you said today. It seems to us that you're involved in a crack, that you're out of agreement at this moment, and that you don't suffer others to go on like that. And you prefer to push your party's interest into the Gasteian city, in order that the Gasteian city may, as in this case, prosper. And the motion you brought is dissolved in a minute, why the first points, the "cumpimiento de la Normiva vigente," the "Perción Urban" of Plan de Orderion, the tram for so many years, the orderion subbane," the "HAP," and then it's a pass. But besides, to start making a streetcar, the tramite is done. Last Friday it was made in the Gastéplene. This change, then, which has been made, suffices for the beginning of works. And that's where I won't say anymore. In the second place, you mean that we have to consider all this, the motion plan, which is not said by mobile plan. And reading has that, you want to change what you're saying and adapt yourself to the position you've got right now. And at the third point, you say it may be illegal or illegal. I think it has been clear of the discussions hitherto, hasn't it? I'd send you to order 41/200, and if you go to article 18.3 and add additional regulations, I think it's pretty clear that it's not illegal. Anyway, I think the government Party will say something more about it, right? We wanted to say that it's based on the position of our tram in 2008 because if Gasteiz did something right, it's a thorough study, with Agencia de Ecologia de Barcelon and the EuskéMicola, and this is the plan of motion here and a few axes, isn't it? Is this the nik you're talking about, ezta, iruditzen iruditzen iruditzen ezta? Hor esaten zen, after a study I think deep, was talking about the new challenges facing Vitoria-Gasteiz, how it is related to the management of mobility and so on, and about the trends that made a city more sustainable or less sustainable. I'm talking about mobility. So, there were some underlying causes that said that there is a tendency to continue using the car, for example. And it was clear that there are other elements that are not only superior to the district of Adurza-San Cristóbal-Gasteiz, but a global issue. There are problems to be added – it is said in the diagnosis – such as the reduction of fossil fuel reserves, the significant increase in fuel costs, urgent policies for reducing greenhouse gases, reducing air pollution, noise, etc., etc. And they said that the future was irremediably aimed at a change of model of mobility, with a change of distribution in the mode, with emphasis on walking, cycling, collective mobility, public, to be able to be electric... These are the foundations of our position, which I believe are sufficiently well-founded. Progress has been given, 2006, 2007, 2008 accounts, and 10 years, cars have been very much diminished, from 36 to 20%. The use of livings is from 4-5%, near 15%. Things have been done well, but more things have to be done. And here comes the second landmark or the second harpsichord. In 2015, the agreement is signed. And the agreement, unanimously, as has been said here, is signed, and I think here you've twisted reality a little, because here, the priors are going up and down, and Podemos has also used this agreement. We're also sorry that some parties come down from this agreement, but what the agreement said was, eh? He would say: "Un análisis de alternativas de comunicación en el eje este-centro-stete, el studio para la extension de la la la la la la lascaules trans del Travías, y unalisis para implantación del selfbús expres." And then we say: Prioritys. We think the priority is whatever it is. We can't say that this and now the other, because priorities can vary in public perception, and when we have done something half done, change: "We'll have to stop that later and change it to the other side... "I don't know. And that's how we can keep going all the time, right? And it seems to us that the political policies of motion are due to middle-term policies, and that there is, parallelly, the ability to work, and we believe that it is working in parallel now. I mean, we finish the northeast axis because we're talking about finishing it, we're not talking about rabbits coming out of jokes. At the same time, and it seems very important to us, we call it "fastbus," we call it BRT or bus ROP transit or whatever it is, because it seems important to us that the peripheral line, too, which moves so many people, seems to us to have some or a great amount of money or a great deal of tram-making, and some more (by sound and so on), and so on. .). And then, it seems to us, it's very important that we make the Alternal studio on the west side, because the Salin, the Middle Central, and we think it's very important for Junk to join. We say at first that it may be in Arbatara, that power of train, the best option. But, well, we're going to have to make the artroom first. But now, when the authorities agree, and when there's money, (by the way, the Popular Party's money in budgets.) This also is another; and now again, to stop all things, and to take the priority to another place, he can do neither of them. That's why we're on the side of the whole package. And let each road follow as far as it can, but look at a universality. And finally, and a little around critical voices, it seems to us that it's a public tram, that it's a collective, that it's powerful, that it's electric and that investment is rational. For if it were not reasonable, we should talk of something else. And that he will move the inhabitants of Adurza and the inhabitants of San Cristobal, not only to the centre, but to the whole city, and bring all the city to Adurza and San Cristobal. And that's important to say, too, because here's Oritisolo, there's CETIC, there's Ellacuria, there's the university, there's the Southern Society House, more schools, etc., etc., and so on. And we see the opposite points. How can we not see the opposite things? I mean, I live around here, I go through it every day, I have less than 100 yards to one occasion.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u13	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u14	Bai, second bat. It is true, however, that the trees will be cut; it is true, the works are tiresome; it is true, there will be fewer parking; It's true. It's true that the tram has a flexibility too. That's true too. But at last we draw up the scales and say: the whole planning we have is either worth it or not. That's the key at last. And it seems to us that, considering everything, it's worth it. No, you don't, we don't agree. Just like that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u15	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Telllería, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u16	Yes, ma'am, President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, guests, all good days. Here, in this exchange of ideas, we could give time in the motion and in the composition of the resolution by denying every technical and legal aspect which has been mentioned one by one, but it would be a waste of time. You have considered these figures as arguments, and you will not yield. That is, according to you, all irregular, illegal. But you won't play any administrative or judicial instance, because you don't have anything to do and you know. Because it is not a question of whether tram extension yes or tram extension no. This is a way of doing politics out of all reasonableness and exploitative of the time. It's not even populism; it's political waste. I'll tell you a story, or if you want a story. Well, we're not talking about an idea that occurred on a sleepless night to an unbalanced technician. No, no, We're talking about an idea of expanding the tram that came up, and sold, to a gentleman who was mayor and who was called Javier Maroto. And that occurred on February 9, 2015, pointing out that it was "a reasonable investment in the midst of a crisis". A few months later there were elections, municipal elections, and I will not remind you here, not to increase your pain, who was elected mayor at that first meeting of elected councillors. Once the summer had passed and a few moods calmed, the one who had become leader of the opposition, Mr. Javier Maroto, in the debate of October 1, 2015, in which the new mayor Urtaran presented his plans for the legislature, and after a series of invectives peculiar to that councilman who had ceased to be mayor, pointed out that he was joining the project of extending the tram from Angulema to the university. Of course, if the idea was yours! And he ended up demanding (requiring) haste and that the city council, the parliament and the government budget what is necessary, because, if not – and I quote again textual – "his bet will not be credible". And said and done: in the budgets of 2017 appears an item of 3,5 million euros for the same year, with the subsequent credits of commitment until the year 2028, whose generic title, from the budget item, is "Amendment tram Gasteiz". And as much as I have sought, I have not found that absolutely no parliamentary group in this House would have amended it. And, as it were, on 11 April of that same year (i.e. only seventy-nine days ago) such budgets were approved with the unamended departure of the Gasteiz tram, and therefore implicitly accepted by the unanimity of this House, with the vote in favour of the partners of the Government and the abstention of the People's Party (of you). Forbearance that you know it was essential to be able to approve these budgets. In short, you've been two years and twenty-one days to sell the project, to confirm it over and over again, and to accept the budget for it. And then, just one day, to put it against you, against your project, back and forth. Let's say they spent in twenty-four hours of "A tram called desire" to, I don't know, "Those scoundrels in their crazy shit," or "Jurasic Park." Suddenly. And a fake of these characteristics, a twist of such a dimension, should cause them at least some injury in the meninges, in the thinking zone, in that of ideology, and in the neurons of strategy. But no, nothing happens to them, because that area of thought, then, it is seen that they do not use it. They only use the area of tactics, of short positioning, which is the zone of not thinking, of acting "depending on", and in this case of taking advantage of the situation of the moment, and tomorrow, then, we will see what other position we take. I can understand in part, that I understand, the positioning of some neighbors, because any infrastructure that will pass you by will surely cause you uncertainties, doubts and insecurities, that can lead to positioning; that is always positioning, in case, against. What is not understood, what is not understood at all, is that a party that pushed, encouraged, exalted and inaugurated the Gasteiz tram today radically turns its position to reveal itself totally against. The most original of its neoconversion is that, far from criticizing exclusively the planned enlargement, it has already done so today and the other day in the appearance was dedicated to greening not only the enlargement: much of the tram already completed and launched years ago, and that it was approved and praised and inaugurated by its municipal group. Have you forgotten that Alfonso Alonso and Javier Maroto have been mayors of Gasteiz, and that they never said a single word against the tram; on the contrary, they defended it and planned its expansion, which included, as I said before, the current route to the university? That said, therefore, it seems that there would be no need for further argument, although I understand that it will further illustrate to your ladies and gentlemen if I recall your technical-legal allegations, which is what you use to try to justify. Regardless of whether this is an apology, I am not going to repeat the technical depths in which you have already entered into the appearance or the questioning two weeks ago, because the Economic Development Advisor has already explained it to you and you know it. Both the railway sector legislation and all spatial planning instruments, the project is in order. Only as a sample will I quote the writing sent by the chief architect (a chief official, in addition) of the Public Space and Natural Environment Service of the City of Vitoria to the director of Transport Infrastructures on 9 March of the same year, who at its beginning says: "The project presented is adapted in its general and main aspects to the informative study of expansion of the south of the tram of Vitoria-Gasteiz, first phase, so from the technical point of view the project can be approved". Then it says (because it could end here and you will say "It's not that you have said it all"),..., I will say it all: "However, we consider that it might be advisable to evaluate and consider a number of minor aspects" (which are then ready), "and that for your entity they do not prevent approval of the project". With regard to the amendments to the General Plan for Urban Planning, therefore, man, you also know that the city council has committed itself to this, without it being necessary to paralyse the execution of the work for nothing, since the corresponding information studies had previously been approved. Nor is it necessarily necessary to dismantle all the tram already built and inaugurated, because they did not think of doing so either to Mayor Alonso or to Mayor Maroto. Now, the city council of now will have to put order in that of now and that of before, because the former mayors, it is seen that in their haste and joy to finish the tram, then, man, did not notice what it was up to them to do. And it is that everything, in this battery of initiatives (comparence of the councillor, interpellation and the present motion), does not cease to be the staging, in the end, of a populist and electoralist position. You know you're going to lose it, you knew it from the beginning, you were going to lose it; you didn't even go to us to see what position, whether we were going to vote for points or not, because you also heard the positions at the appearance, the platform and the counselor. And, exclusively, the only thing he tries to do is to stage his dissenting stance in front of potential customers. A posture that represents a radical turn from which it has been keeping, from the whole life of the Lord, before the theme of the tram. And it's that the most serious problem... Well, there you are, but that's not the most serious problem. The worst is that they return to the burden with the method of breaking any social consensus in Gasteiz with any matter. There is no way to achieve cohesion in the face of city projects that achieve social identification with them, that they take out the best we have in society to move forward in a cohesion that is becoming more and more essential. You are constantly striving to break cohesion, to seek cracks in agreements, to strain society. They don't care about the RGI as much as a 1,400-meter stretch of a tram. They don't care! The question is to sift to try to get electoral profitability; poison to make it profitable. It's the only explanation. And, just as it is legitimate to change your mind, it is to criticize those short-term opinions. As a colophon, and in order not to relax, because I'm going to quote sentences, I'm going to quote phrases from people of their ideological proximity, I think (because already, with so much twist, you don't know). The first is from someone who has not been brought to this House for a long time, because, when UPyD and Gorka Maneiro disappeared, he did not come, who is Mr. Fernando Savater, who said: "Populism is the democracy of the ignorant". And another, Mario Vargas Llosa, said: "Populism is the road to the self-destruction of democracy." And this is mine, what I am going to say now is mine: "A variant of populism is to abandon a structured idea, to point to the contrary by electoral opportunism." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u17	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Passing on the answers, Mme. l'Espez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u18	For starters, Mr. Telleria, which I have forgotten, how many councillors does the Basque Nationalist group have in the City Hall of Vitoria? How many councillors does the People's Group have in the City Hall of Vitoria? I forgot. Can you tell me? Mr Tellería, you know perfectly well that we are not talking about the same project; that the 2015 project and today's project have nothing to do with it. That the 2015 project was one way and now there are two. That the 2015 project did not modify the bridge of Las Trianas, and this increases it by fourteen meters and you have to change the entire structure. That then was not the burial, and today is. Mr. Telleria, what do you want to talk about? Look, I'm giving you the surgery if it's been a relief, which I thought was more a group therapy than anything else, what do you want me to say to you? Mr. Telleria, you were talking to me about reports from the City Hall of Vitoria. Look, said the Activity Control Unit of the Environmental Planning and Management Service, Department of Environment and Public Health of the City of Vitoria, said: "During the years of operation of the current tram lines have been receiving in the Municipal Department of Environment and Public Health neighbor complaints for discomfort caused by its operation in various areas of the route, especially Angulema, General Álava and some streets of Abetxuko", by chance, those streets and those areas that are narrower are. Therefore, this is so. And he said: "The main complaints are from noises, and especially vibrations in homes and commercial premises. There are also citizens reporting malfunctions of computer equipment and medical diagnostics, who blame vibrations and the power line or energy substations. From the attention of all these complaints and from the comp-pro-ba-cio-nes made, the need arises for the extension of the tram line to be carried out with an increase in the corrective measures, and this case is studied". Mr. Telleria, we didn't make anything up. This is what the technicians write. I don't make it up. And what I'm going to tell you is that we don't make the mistakes we've made, that I think we're in time not to make the mistakes again, because making the same mistakes again is a serious damage to the neighbors. And this project has nothing to do – I say this to the EH Bildu group, the Socialist Group and the Nationalist Group – with that of 2015. So much so that it bends the way (where there was one, there are two). Therefore, this constructive project has not been in public information, it has not received any allegations, it is not known to the neighbors. Is that all right with you? Okay, well, admit that it suits you; that it suits you that all these abuses are committed. That's good for them. I respect your opinion, but recognize the reality. The facts are what they are. That's good for you, in exchange for what? In exchange for what's good for them? You don't mind? Look, Mr. Zorrilla was saying yesterday in a commission ( yesterday, or Tuesday?)..., on Tuesday it said: "The rushes are bad counselors" (Zorroza's underground, the rushes are bad counselors), "we have to take into account the opinion of the neighbors, we have to evaluate the demand". That's what Bildu used to say, too, eh!: need to analyze and evaluate profitability, analyze demand; social, environmental and economic profitability. Hey, he's not home at 48 hours. But who's doing cross-dressing here? Who does? Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that it is very sad to have to assume the responsibility of throwing forward anyone who falls. They don't care, as if they were wearing earphones and an anti-face; a flight forward without looking at the consequences. Because there's a lack of studies and demand reports here, because this tram doesn't just shorten travel times... The university has it in the center of Vitoria, Mrs. Red. We don't need to get the university closer to the center, it's in the center of Vitoria. He's in the center of Vitoria! This tram not only does not shorten the travel times to the university, but it extends them if we use the tram. It goes faster from Parliament, or from Angulema, than by using the tram route, because they have made a curve tour to make more meters of tram, to increase the work. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no other justification! That he has no other justification! Ladies and gentlemen, the other day the councilwoman was telling us about the subway. Is the activity of a neighborhood within a meter? But, ladies and gentlemen, how can one say such a thing? Because when something like this happens on a tram line, for example... [[Shows a photo of an accident]] One thing like this, this fits in a meter, counselor? How do you handle this in a meter? What are the consequences of this within a meter? How does it work out? Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this requires that the situation be reviewed and that account be taken of the reality of the infrastructure and the reality of the structure, where they are going to put or fit this tram. I think it is necessary to take into account the demands of the neighbors and many more people from Vitoria!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u19	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u20	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u21	Thank you. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u22	Thank you, President. Look, not by repeating something turns out to be true. And, as in Vitoria there is something that is much talked about in the city, which is that of being VTV, that we are Vitoria's of all life, I will give you some examples for you to see, Mr Becerra and Mrs López de Ocariz, how you listen to citizens but you do not always end up doing what some citizens claim to be done, so that you see that we take into account the degree of neighborhood response. Because I do value the work that the collectives who are involved in the politics of cities do; the work, the tenacity and the way they have to reach public administrations. I don't know if you will remember the project of the escalators in the medieval center of Vitoria, the pneumatic collection plant in the district of Coronación, the project of modification of the square of the Virgin White, the tram itself (which arrived ten years late, that first we would have left for free and then the Victorians had to pay), the reform of Sancho el Sabio street, and the house called the house of AIDS, whose name is Besarkada Etxea, the bronchi that existed in the city for its implantation. Vitoria is a city of which I as a Victorian feel proud, but we have to recognize that it is a city where, when a project is put on the table, it costs us. It costs us! And I say that I live in it, and that I consider myself VTV of those who say on the street. Or wasn't there a grudge with the escalators of the medieval hull? What about the pneumatic collection plant, which Mr. Pizarro set up, from the People's Party, in the City Hall of Vitoria? What about the AIDS house, which Mr. Corda set up when he was mayor of Vitoria? I say there are examples of all the mayors, all the parties and all the ideologies. You listen to the city, you take into account the opinion of the neighbors, but when someone has political responsibilities you have to manage and understand that you have to propose tools that improve the life and quality of life of citizens in all neighborhoods of the city. And this is what happens in Vitoria and surely happens in other cities, but let's not say that things have to be paralyzed because there is a collective that wants to paralyze them. You have to listen, you have to keep in mind, but, Mrs López de Ocariz, you can't create social alarm, you can't lie and you can't miss the truth. And, above all, you cannot change your mind when you have the mayor and when you stop having him, which is what the People's Party does. He does it with Garoña, he does it with the fracking and he does it with the tram project. And you, you're wrong that you're wrong that the university is already in the center. But if no one disputes, especially because we live in a city that is neither Madrid nor Barcelona, it is not even Valencia! It is as big as it is, and we all know that the only thing that keeps the university away from the center is the tracks of the train, which the People's Party has told us it's going to bury. And phenomenal, and we'll be glad and I'll applaud you when we see the underworld that the People's Party says it's going to do. Which is that the tram doesn't get to Adurza to take the university downtown, or not! That is because the stretch of the tram is extended, to from there create branches that reach the other two parts of the city. And don't say we want to do it to do public work, because you can go to the hemerotecs of the City Hall of Vitoria itself and see why the streets proposed the People's Party that had to go the tram we have today in Angulema. Were they talking about Florida Street, yes or no? Were they talking about The Herráns, yes or no? From José Mardones Street, yes or no? Was it longer, or shorter? Bring the subway that brought us the other day, and let's look at the distance. Man! Was there public work at the time, yes or no? Look, Mrs. López de Ocariz, you're not right, and that's what you're trying to do... He's told the PNV spokesman, Mr. Telleria, but as we run the town hall with them... I will tell you, in fact, the People's Party has many councillors in the City of Vitoria, more than the PNV and more than the PSE, but politics is not just about winning elections, Mrs López de Ocariz. It is to be able to agree, to reach agreements and to add. And you can still have more councillors, than if you stay alone you can't rule the city. It is that this is the policy, the ability to reach agreements, of which the People's Party in Vitoria is very far away, because they play with things that are very important to the citizenry, the one that cares about the tram and that also cares that it comes to debates manipulating the feelings of the city, as you know, that was the subject of the RGI. And you said you felt sad about all this. What seems sad to me is that the thoughts of some of the city's collectives are used, when you know why the tram is made. Because you, like me, are from Vitoria, and you know we need to expand it. And you know you have to look for a way to get to a specific point in the city in order to grow up in the other neighborhoods, and you know that as well as I do. And you will also know that there are university students who take the tram at points of the city, but that many arrive at the new bus station and that from there they could take a tram that would take them as quickly as possible to the university campus. And, I end by saying, the tram is necessary, collective, public and sustainable. So public, collective and sustainable that Mr Maroto defended him. That gets there to try to grow to the rest of the city and interconnect it. We must listen to the citizens, but we must not hide behind the citizens in order to do politics. Because we are chosen to manage, to listen to citizens and to take them into account, but it is our responsibility to make decisions. And that's why I'm telling you to remember all the examples I've given you – there are many more – with mayors of all political parties. Should I have stopped all that? Shouldn't Sancho the Wise have done it? Shouldn't he have given the AIDS patients a chance with the house he put himself in Lakua? Shouldn't we have?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u23	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u24	Therefore, we do not believe in false hopes for the citizens, and we do politics with ideology and not with the populisms that seem to be very fashionable.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u25	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Please be quiet. Together the Podemos team. Yes, from there, Mr. Becerra.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u26	Yes, it is only to ask for the vote on points from the first two, and then the third separately.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u27	Thank you. All right, Mr. Becerra. Unite the EH team as representative. Yes, that way, Mr. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u28	Yes, thank you. No, just saying that I believe that given the terms of the debate, and given the intentions I believe that you are dishonest that the People's Party brings, it is not worth further discussion. Because we could insist on the pointless argumentation that I understand that you have done, and on this great bandit that you have given after you have announced it Maroto, after you have carried it on the electoral program, after you have agreed with the rest, after you have pressed for it because it was not being carried out, after you have supported it through budgets..., and now suddenly being encouraging what I understand are legitimate concerns of a part of the neighbors of Adurza and San Cristóbal, to twist the account of what has happened with the tram. It's not worth it. I insist that our position is that it remains consistent with the agreements that were taken in 2015, which is the basis of our action, and that we understand that the three most important mobility projects for the future for Vitoria, which are on the table, now at stake, which are the extension of the tram, the Azkarbus (the BRT) and the east-west axis – which for us in principle Arabatran is the best option, waiting for it to be demonstrated in the study of alternatives – we understand that they are the whole, which makes this part understandable. So, we keep the position out there, but we certainly do not want to enter into a dishonest debate.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u29	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u30	Thank you, ma'am. Indeed, the People's Party has more councillors than the PNV in the City Hall of Gasteiz. I'm going to ask you a rhetorical question, because you won't have time to answer it, because you no longer have a chance: do you know which party is the mayor of Vitoria-Gasteiz? Well, that's it. The other day we had an appearance on Basque Y to which came a group of professors from the university, the Ecopol group, to explain to us a theoretically scientific and technical argument why they were not supporters of the Y. And I told them that the starting premise they used – which put it more or less textually – that at a meeting in Brussels in 1994 of the great builders of that meeting, the conclusion was drawn in the European Union that many railways had to be made – I said that it was an apriorism that theoretically distorted all the conclusions that might emerge from that study. You said today that the only reason you want to do the tram is because you want to do public work. That apriorism to me has surprised me to hear it in a voice of the People's Party, but, well, that apriorism is again exactly the same. I mean, that delegitimizes any other reasoning I make. He also said one thing: it does not allow the passage of firemen and ambulances. Lie. And don't come lying. That's for starters. Mature things, say there are technical difficulties, but that's a lie. And we are again faced with the same thing I said to you before, with a permanent position of Mr Maroto and the People's Party in the town hall defending this tramway... Look, I don't know if it was exactly the same, with a track or two, or the Trianas Bridge with one meter more or one meter less, but the project you approved in the budget in April of this year (April, two months ago) was already that project. You approved it in the budgets, that one can't escape. That was the project to be built. Two months ago. And he also says he's aging badly. Do you know how many users have had the tram in seven years? Users: 48 million; 48 million users in seven years, 7 million users per year. That's what Vitoria's citizenship wants its tram: 7 million uses. Look, I'm not gonna... And we don't have any hurry either, eh! Since 2015 that approved it..., its mayor suggested the project, in February 2015. In other things I would have said slow. Because, of course, it says, "Wait for the underground." I'm going to ask you, are you convinced there's going to be a subterranean? It's like the Guadiana's eyes, eh! We had it, they took it away from us, then came a minister, who is now president of Congress, and told us she was going to put a tejavana on Dato Street, and with that at least for the rain we were covered, now they're talking about another underground... I, until I see it, won't believe it, and so at that time you can make other kind of decisions. And we cannot wait for the sustainable mobility of this city, to see if the one in charge of the Madrid Government has more or less dependence on what parliamentary groups. That, either it's done, or we can't plan mobility on something we don't know if it's going to be done. And, simply, I want to remind you again to look at your ideological and opinion changes about mobility, because, really, a neuronal sprain will have at any moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u31	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Now that the discussion is over, he will vote for Mrs. lópez de Ocariz's motion. Asked for points, is there any problem? He can vote. So we vote for the first and second points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes at the meeting, 69; the votes given, 72; the contraries, 19; 53; white, 0; abstentions 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u32	So the first and second points have not been accepted. Next, we vote for the third point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: 8, 52; white, 0; Absence, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u33	So the third point is not accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Mution, José Ramone Becerlo, introduced together by the parliamentary members of the Podemos, to the impact of the southern railway channel and to the conversion of several other railway structures. Discipline and final resolution. The proposer's turn, Mr. Becerra, is yours to introduce and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u34	Thank you. On the 16th we asked the Councillor for Economic Development about the agreement signed..., not signed, agreed with the Ministry of Development, for the construction of the southern railway variant by the Basque Government and its subsequent financing and liquidation from the quota. In this inquiry we ask the councilwoman to clarify some of the unknowns, of the many unknowns that persist around this project and that concern the citizenship of the municipalities of the Great Bilbao that may be affected by the construction of this infrastructure. Together we are concerned about the social damage and environmental damage that will produce southern railway routes, and we wanted to know how they'll solve them in villages like Barakaldo. At the same time we must find a way out in the La Peña de Bilbo, and in the wilds of the wilds, for from there the goods will continue to pass through the open air, once the vantage is opened, and this situation will increase the noise and dangers, and will prolong them forever until one knows how long. That's why we decided to introduce a motive to determine our proposals on this subject, in order to face these problems. As we said on the 16th, Elkarrekin We consider the southern railway variant to be an interesting infrastructure for two reasons. Firstly, because it avoids the transit of freight convoys through the centre of urban centres, with the consequent reduction of discomfort, noise and the risks associated with the transport of dangerous goods. Secondly, because it allows goods to be transferred from road to rail, which is a trend that must become one of the pillars of the fight against climate change in the field of transport. However, the project presented in 2015 by the Ministry of Development contained a number of significant environmental and social impacts throughout its course. In view of these impacts, and the alarming lack of information that surrounds this project right now, it would have been relatively easy for our group to take a purely critical position with the project, to align with the affected groups and to try to extract electoral revenue from the clumsiness with which the institutions usually manage this type of infrastructure. However, we choose the most expensive political way: to meet with the people of the affected municipalities, to discuss the issue for days with the municipal groups and assemblies of the parties that we form Elkarrekin Podemos, and ultimately to agree on a common and shared text that we present today before this plenary and which reflects our ideas and proposals in two ways. Firstly, to deal with the social and environmental impact of launching the southern variant, and secondly to ensure that this infrastructure is complementary to the other railway networks built or already planned. This exercise of bringing politics closer to the problems of the street and trying to provide solutions should not be considered extraordinary, and yet it is. Talking to people and consulting their opinion should be part of the governance pattern of all institutions and parties whenever a large infrastructure is intended, and yet institutions flee from talking to the people who expose the problems, as if the people themselves were a problem. And the southern variant is a good example of that. The project submitted by the central government in 2015 raised a large number of complaints and allegations that have not yet been answered by the ministry. It therefore does not seem logical for the Basque Government to resume the work without giving an adequate response and solution to the demands made in its day by civil society and the institutions. Nor does it seem reasonable for the Basque Government to sign the agreement, which it has already agreed, without a prior assessment of the improvements and changes required by the outline to minimize the aforementioned social and environmental impact. Well, when we have tried to reach a compromise with the groups supporting the Government, we have been moved that such a compromise is not possible because support for the order agreement (which is only agreed, is not signed) is something that cannot be renounced. In short, it is clear to us that the project of the southern railway variant is already tied and well tied in the offices, and that any exercise of rapprochement with the citizens, such as the one we have done to know their problems, or any constructive contribution that is to be made by the opposition political groups, is sterile. But, of course, that carpeting policy, that form of political promotion that consists of selling deals to a photo and headline, even if there is nothing behind it, also has its victims. And in this case the victims are the people of the street, who have no art either in the agreement or in photography, but who in the case of the large infrastructures will then suffer the consequences of the agreement for the rest of their days. And this is what's going to happen with the southern variant, no more or less. It is very easy to paint a strip on a map and say "The variant will pass through here", but in the case of the neighborhood of Gorostiza of Barakaldo that strip is a viaduct of one hundred and sixty meters of length that leaves the neighborhood in two, which rises just seven meters from the ground and through which will circulate every day trains of up to 1,200 tons of weight. And in the case of the Bilbao neighbourhoods of La Peña and Abusu, or the municipality of Basauri the photograph and the media owner will assume that for an indefinite number of years (but many) the number of trains running in open air through those neighborhoods..., they will go from nineteen to seventy-two daily convoys loaded with all kinds of goods, including dangerous ones. In the case of the municipalities of Bilbao and Basauri our group has proposed, raises in this motion the possibility that the traffic of goods can proceed through the tunnel of access of the Basque Y to the municipality of Bilbao. This would not only prevent the transit of open-air convoys through these municipal terms of Bilbao and Basauri, but would also seek to complement the southern variant with the other railway networks, to avoid duplication and the unusual expenditure of resources involved in their construction. Well, in this case, too, the transaction has been impossible, and we are very much afraid that the impossibility is guided by the veto imposed on the Department of Economic Development, and that it has more to do with the call to order coming from someone other builder who has seen the hundreds of millions of euros that will cease to enter if we start rationally planning our public works in this country. Because building a tunnel for the Basque Y, and years later time another in parallel, a few kilometers, for phase 2 of the southern variant, does not cease to be a waste of public money that could be avoided if there was political will, which, as seen, does not exist. Whether it's middle-class or not, in the case of the bacteria, this is what we defend. One. The chief of the mercenaries must not cross the open air from the city, nor only from the Left or the Valley of Mead, nor from the Bilbai nor from the Wild Sea. Number two. I'd like to introduce another project, especially in Barakdododo, to prevent the applicants that came in 2015, and to reduce damage. Three. Not to spend commerce in the open air between Bilbo and the wildlings. We suggest that the use of access to the high-speed train's Bilbo, in this way various railway puzzles should be additional. In short, with or without a transaction, from Elkarrekin we will continue to defend the right of the affected citizenship to have a satisfactory response from the administrations to their demands for information, their complaints and their allegations, presented in their day by both individuals, associations and entities of civil society as well as by the local administrations by whose municipal terms the variant will run. By transaction or without it, from Elkarrekin we will continue to work to avoid the passage of freight convoys through the urban cores and to encourage the participation of citizens in the search for solutions to reduce the social and environmental impact. And, with or without it, from Elkarrekin we will continue to advocate that unnecessary costs and duplication in the construction of infrastructures be eliminated, and that the southern variant be complementary to the rail network of Adif and the Basque Y so that its economic and social viability can be justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u35	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, representing the Euskal Potula Group, Mr. Damboreea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Becerra, what I see in your motion is that there is a contradiction between the explanatory statement and what you are asking for. You say that the objective of the southern railway variant is to speed up the departure of goods from the port of Bilbao avoiding the urban cores, which is correct. They say that there were many allegations to the study, which is correct; that they have not been answered and will have to be answered, which is correct. They say, "Man, it does not seem logical that the Basque Government resumes works...": it does not resume anything, we have to go through the steps that we have to go through, which is what is planned. You say that the approach of the southern variant aggravates the passage through Bilbao and Basauri, with which I no longer know whether you are in favour or against the southern variant. But I will look at the last one, because I can fully agree with you in your last paragraph of the explanatory statement, which says that "the possibility of enabling and connecting the Basauri-Bilbao tunnel with the Basque high-speed rail network must be considered". I think it's right to study! I don't know if that's viable, whether it's compatible or not, but it makes sense to study. But then what do you propose to us? What you're asking us to vote on is: first, it's okay for freight trains to leave the urban core, but then it says, "Stay still all of us until there's a feasibility study." Hey, the priority is to get the goods out of the urban cores, or not? And if not, what's wrong, what's not done? Because we've been talking about trains this week, different trains, different places; when we don't talk about the tram, we talk about the trains, in Bilbao or in Erandio, and it depends on who presents things, says that, well, the economic issue has to be looked at that way, and suddenly the economic issue is priority. So, here I find a contradiction. You ask us to include in the final draft the claims and allegations submitted in 2015, and there are conflicting claims and allegations between you. We will have to consider some and reject others, and that is why we proposed that this be done with the greatest possible consensus in the world, as reflected in the compromise amendment. But then I go to the next thing, because you tell us, first, that we should study that possibility of connecting everything in the tunnel, but then you tell us that "The Basque Parliament considers it essential that the southern variant is connected from the beginning with the new Basque railway network of Adif". So, we have already passed the study and now it has to be because yes, without studying it, without knowing whether it is compatible or not it is shareable. And from here point 4, 5 and 6 of your proposal are the same, and therefore I have my serious doubts that you are in favour of the project. I don't know if they're in favour of the project or not in favour of the project. I'm telling you, your motive statement has more or less... but it's more or less correct. More possibilities need to be studied? Yeah, and he's at that stage. Now, do you not like the management commission that has been agreed upon? Well, well, good. Each one has his or her own tastes and each one has his or her own preferences. In the order for the management of the works previously all studies have to be completed, and perhaps part of that line that is planned today needs to be changed. I don't know why you're trying to do this! And I'll remind you of one thing. You say that twenty years ago we started talking about the southern variant, and thirty years ago the Serantes tunnel, which was the panacea, the solution to the exit of goods from the port of Bilbao. And Mr Aznar's government arrived and the Serantes tunnel began to be made, because until then there had been no real availability or interest in doing so. And Mr. Zapatero came and put a tape on one side of the tunnel and another tape on the other side of the tunnel, and so follows the Serantes tunnel to get the goods out of the port of Bilbao. And there they buried, they're upholstered, between one site and another, more than 60 million euros from those. And I think it's about time that, in the end, those goods were released from the port of Bilbao, that it would improve the competitiveness of the port of Bilbao and try to get it out of all possible urban centers. And in that I guess... it's just that I don't know if you're okay with it either, with the things you've told us here. I start from the basis that we all raise the same thing and we all want the same thing, and we all want it to be done with the greatest possible consensus. Now, I have my doubts that you are in that, for the speech you have made to us. The speech that you have done to us has nothing to do with your explanatory statement or with what you put forward. He told us about the offices, the works, the builders... I don't know if your party has much dealings with the builders here; ours rather little or nothing. But in what we are in favor of the departure of the goods by train (because it is also the most ecological and sustainable) from the port of Bilbao. It is going to be much more competitive the port of Bilbao, and, of course, if one manages to free, in Santurce mainly – because there it divides the people and the exit to the ria and the sea – from all the urban centers the transport of goods, be it dangerous or not, for it seems to us that it is already time that, after thirty years that we have carried with this theme, something begins to do that improves the quality of life of at least all the residents in the Left Margen and part of Bilbao.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u37	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u38	Thank you, ma'am. Finally, I am not going to touch on many of the issues that Mr Damborenea has put on the table, which I fully agree with. The first question we should ask Mr Becerra and his parliamentary group is whether or not they really agree with this draft. I can tell you that my parliamentary group is. And it is not at present: it has always been, from the beginning, because we too have been involved in the thrust of this project. Why? Because we consider it to be a strategic and fundamental project, which puts us at the forefront, and we also understand that it somehow supports aside, much of the industrial fabric of this country, and allows us to be more competitive. Therefore, we understand that it is a more than necessary infrastructure, not only for the industrial fabric, but for the very viability even of the port of Bilbao. Therefore, we have always supported him. And, despite the fact that Mr Damborenea has said certain things about our governments, I believe that those governments have always been firmly committed not only to that part of the project that you have mentioned, but to the project as a whole, as has always been to other types of infrastructure that Elkarrekin Podemos also mentioned in its initial proposal. We therefore welcome the agreement that has been signed. We support it, as it could not be otherwise, because this release involves pushing forward a project that, as I said, we consider strategic and fundamental, as a country project. I therefore understand that this agreement, the result of the dialogue, the result of the negotiation, the result of the consensus, also brings very positive issues to bear on the arguments put on the table by Mr Becerra. Because, on the one hand, it is committed to drafting an environmental impact project, and because, on the other hand, it is going to meet or respond to the demands, the allegations that have been made from different institutions and from different groups. Institutions and collectives in which the socialists have also been; socialist mayors who have made allegations, who have put problems on the table. We are therefore pleased that now, at this point, those allegations, if at least studied, are answered in the most satisfactory way possible and taking into account the general interest, not the particular interest of one or the other. And we socialists have always, always, always done so since compromise. We have not done this from the banner or by taking out our breasts for something we have been doing on a daily basis, which is talking to our citizens and, taking care of our responsibilities, channeling those demands, channeling those concerns through our municipalities. We've always met with those collectives, not now. From the beginning, for thirty years, as I said, we have channeled their demands through the municipalities. We made them ours, because some of them were even authored by our own mayors. Therefore, it seems to me very good that you now come to stand up as the advocate of these claims. Well, welcome to what others have been doing for almost forty years. But, anyway, I would like you to say it, I would like you to say it. Are you in favour, yes or no, of the southern railway variant? Do you think it's appropriate, or do you not think it's appropriate? Bring solutions, yes, but not of thick stroke, because some of the solutions that you have put on the table only partially solve some problems that there are, and others do not. And with some they will agree some municipalities, and with others they will not. Therefore, the vision has to be much more global, it has to be much thinner, if I may. And it has to come not from the hand of some demands, but through dialogue between institutions, and between those institutions and those collectives, those municipalities, those mayors who are putting the problems on the table. So don't put the cart in front of the oxen. Be proactive in inter-institutional collaboration, in political collaboration, in channelling these demands, in the constructive spirit of finding global solutions. Now, to me, what you want me to say, there are things that seem quite contradictory to me. Many of them have put them on the table in Mr Damborenea and therefore I am not going to influence them, but there has been one that has specifically drawn much attention to me, and that is that you put as a solution, as a cornerstone of that solution, to be able to use the high-speed train. And I think your group has always been against the high-speed train. Therefore, is the high-speed train a little less than an attack on this country, and you put as a large part of the solution the use of that high-speed train? So two questions: Do you agree with the southern railway variant? And, second, do you agree with the high-speed train and its use? It is clear that in this case it is, for this matter. I imagine that, if you agree that the high-speed train, or the high-speed train infrastructure, can also be used in this case, you will be in favour of the high-speed train! These are two questions that I would like to clarify, because I think they would put black on white not only their personal positioning, but their own positioning as a political group. So, finally, I invite you to join in what others have been doing for a long time, which is sitting down to dialogue, agree and seek solutions to make it possible for the southern railway variant to be a project of all, a project of a country that puts us at the forefront in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u39	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians. Mr. Abrahams, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u40	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Congressmen, good morning to all. At this point we are discussing the consequence of the interrogation, which has been introduced by Podemos about the southern railway retreat. Mr. Becerra, I must confess to you that the head section of Economics development and the understatement gave you an answer, I thought you wouldn't introduce this motive. By contextualizing the issue, we are talking about a railway infrastructure that we consider strategic for the future of Euskadi, which has been behind many years, and which has a dual objective. On the one hand, improving the competitiveness of the port of Bilbao by facilitating the traffic of port goods through the railway, thus passing much of the traffic of our roads towards the railway transport (one of the objectives and pillars of the fight against climate change), avoiding also future problems of saturation of lines, and being part of a future connection with the high speed, that will allow to connect the port of Bilbao in two widths: in the Iberian width towards the peninsula, and in the European width towards the Atlantic railway corridor. And, on the other hand, eliminate the circulation of these goods from the urban cores of Ezkerraldea and Meatzaldea. That's why this infrastructure will improve the quality of life for more than 200,000 people in that area. These will be some of the victims to which Mr Becerra referred: the neighbours of Santurtzi, who will have a surface to dedicate it to more friendly uses in their city, or the neighbours of Ortuella. These will be the victims of this infrastructure. And besides, it will improve the social social development of our country. And as the chief physician explained, this project today and tomorrow can't be performed on one action. There will be two necessary phases. The first between the Serantes tunnel and Olabeaga, which will be executed by the Basque Government via management commission, discounting it from the quota. And the second between Barakaldo and Basauri, in which the informative study will be carried out with the same objective as in the first phase (doing the best of the works for the citizenry and for the goods), which will have to be completed in 2019, although for you, for what it has stated, it seems that it is not necessary to do so, since it makes a series of free assessments and affirmations that seem to invalidate it from the beginning. And it is precisely in this informative study that we will be able to study the proposal that they made the other day and that today they repeat from Elkarrekin Podemos, analyzing all the technical and functional conditions to which Mr Damborenea referred, which we do not initially know. And even, when the time comes, if you are here and in the General Courts, you can, together with us, urge its realization. With regard to Mr Becerra's absolute lack of information in his speech, man, it must be said that the information study of the southern railway variant has been published on the website of the Ministry of Development since November 2015, and has also been sent to all the public administrations concerned and has been subject to public information. And this informative study contains extensive information related to background, study of connections, mapping and topography, geology and geotechnics, climatology, hydrology and drainage, tracing, platform and superstructure, land movement, structures, tunnels and underground works, replenishment of servitudes, affected services, electrifications, security and communications facilities, complementary works, planning and occupations, multi-criteria analysis, occupation, plans, structures, etc., and environmental impact study with all mandatory contents. Therefore, lack of absolute information... then, if you explain it to me, we will be able to understand it with this data. In this respect, an important and positive fact – which I believe we all appreciate positively and which the honourable Member has put before us on the occasion of her inquiry – is that it will be necessary to draw up a new information study, which, according to the agreement, will be carried out jointly by the Basque Government and the State. Therefore, it will be jointly developed and attempted to gather the allegations presented in the 2015 and unanswered informational study, as has been clearly demonstrated here. I mean, they'll be answered. And among them even those presented by the Basque Government itself, which, as you know, endorses many of the allegations made by other social institutions and groups. And this will open a new period of public information where new allegations can be made and thus make a project as transparent and consensual as possible. Of course, it is important to say that, in addition to seeking the best alternative railway infrastructure to meet the needs of rail traffic and the poles of freight traffic generation, all the environmental and social conditions of this infrastructure will be minimized. From what you said the other day in the inquiry and today, although removing some of the free statements you made, it seems that we agree on the fundamentals, what you referred to in your inquiry as the three pillars of this matter: Firstly, the need to avoid, as far as possible, the passage of freight convoys through residential urban centres. In the Left Margin and Meatzaldea in a first phase, and in Bilbao and Basauri afterwards. Secondly, to ensure that the social and environmental impact of the infrastructure is as little as possible. This should be done by the new information studies, the first phase and the second phase, which will be tendered in the near future. And, thirdly, to ensure that the new infrastructure is complementary to the other two infrastructures which are intended to have: one which already exists, which is Adif's, and the other the Basque Y. And make sure we disagree here. It would seem a contradiction that in something that you, which Mr Andueza said, put in value the Basque Y, here we disagree. But let us not disagree about it; let us disagree only in the times you pose of connection. However, and despite trying, it has not been possible to reach an agreement with the proposing group that reflects a greater consensus than will be reached here today, although I appreciate your attempt. And finally we have reached a compromise amendment between the Nationalist and Socialist groups, which support this Basque Government, and the People's Group, which supports the Spanish Government, which have signed the agreement, the agreement of commission that unlocks the construction of this infrastructure, as I said, strategic for Euskadi. I end by thanking the willingness to reach an agreement of the People's Group, and requesting the support of the rest of the groups to it. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u41	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ugarte, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u42	Good morning, everyone. As a matter of fact, I've had some doubts about introducing or not introducing the correction, or what to do with this motive. And in the end, I decided not to run correction. For it seems to me that discussion is not a technical one, that it is more political than this discussion, and that we ought to speak of it in more political terms. When we speak of the technical aspect of the Variante sur ferrovariaa, we agree with two premisses: one that a high-speed train will be made, and the second, that this sur ferrovary is indispensable and useful, in order to account for those which AHT cannot do. And I don't agree with these two premises. For one thing, because I don't think AHT will end up doing it. I don't think Eusalka Y won't do it at last, and I'm just looking at him all wet, I'd say to myself. Well, I don't think he will. Not that a rationality will enter into it, and in some measure this technical scientific documentation, which exists, and which makes you so kind, Mr. Telllería, considering that this project is rethinking, because it is a complete exportation of the goods and people's needs (which ought to be the most desirable thing in this Chamber). Not because that will happen, but because Spain hasn't the money to do it. Spain has no money to do it, and there are examples. Y has a ja-butt in Irun, looking at the French State, that what we're seeing will never be disqualified. I don't know if he's ever gonna make it. Now that funnel in Irun is said to be the ruption of the de carga, as the Spanish Common-wealth does not regard any proposals for the carriage trade, which makes the eucalyptus alone to the people. And we have our particular Castellón airport in the Serantes tunnel. And he decides to throw an EAJ and a hand at that innocent infrastructure. I'm not surprised, I'm not surprised, that the three of us, in some way or other, would be betting on the cement, bet on the great infrastructure, and always using a topi, hooks: This is the strategic, management, useful and supportive. Now that we have the habit of using adjectives for constancy in the past few years. I may, therefore, say little to this total amendment, that I see that it will not be done; for as to technical considerations, I believe that the transport will not leave the Guild harbour. We believe that Bilbo's harbor requires substructure for transport of merchandise, we think he needs it. We think it's a very bad infrastructure now. We believe that the substructure now present produces tremendous modifications, that they are noise, that they are railway corridors... We know that there is an immense establishment from the people, and we believe that this station is extremely rational, and that these sub-structions ought to be improved. I mean, there's no problem in that, and I think we could make a diagnosis: All traffic is to be driven from the Bilbo port in some way. But we have a couple of data: One, only 4% of the transport dealers are moving from the railroad today. It is true that in any transport planning it should be our inspiration to add this percentage, but the data of AHT, which is said by official data, will increase the increase of the transport to 20%. So we were facing a proposition without too much ambition. If that HT were to be done (and I insist: I don't think there'll be any money, there won't be any will from Madrid), so that we can plan and plan a sur ferrovariae around an AHT that's going to be planned... And that's where I want to criticize you, because you said that, as a matter of fact, it's easier to be critical and that it burns you politically because you're not critical and you're making practical proposals, but I think it's sometimes more difficult to have a critical position politically. I think our political position is more difficult, because it seems to be necessary to make this infrastructure, and because it is necessary to make a great pedagogue to explain to people that great infrastructure does not produce such goods, and that they usually bring great economics, when we say that these modifications in the countries do not repair and do not repair their wants of motion. And for that purpose there is a great pedagogy, for there is a whole decango, which is furnished with very pretty adjectives, an official discourse, repeated like a totem, and purchased by media very pleasantly: "It's a infrastructure that Mathilde pays. It will bring for us plenty and benefit." And to make it simple is to me what political courage requires. And what you have done, in my plain opinion, is that you have but little political courage, because you do not clearly and clearly represent the position and position you have with AHT, and therefore what you intend to do is to be a democratized in some way, but without ever doubt the project of AHT. I think that's the first political mistake, and I think time will give EH Union reason. It's a matter of time. There is a great empirical reading about these subjects, a number of projects which have been cancelled, and which are known to us all, the history of Spain is a sign of that, and all our empirical examinations lead us thither. And I think, in this case too, time will give us reason. Unfortunately, after spending a lot of money. That's about AHT, but the U.S.U. sur ferrovaria is a 453 million euros project in the first stage. We don't even know what this project is about. The information there is is very little, it's dark enough, and we don't have much certainty. Therefore, it seems to me as if we were going to argue in a technical position, and to act rashly, because I think that the project must still be fully known to us, that the government ought to give us information about us, the data of demand, the data of social utility. When we speak of economic income, Europe has very clear rules. And it's rules that economic income is to be retained for social income. And Europe has a fixed position in which a guide is placed in a methodology and a form of formulaization to make this economic income even a social income. I'd take a check-up, make a request examination, and then see the figures and the alternatives. This is the agreement made by PP and PNV in the four years of supporting the Spanish Government, a small recompense which has been brought in some way in the treaty which they have made to support that weak Spanish government. And I don't think we can fall into these little prizes, what we're going to do is a sharp planning, a sharp mobile plan for the merchandise and the people, the Arzilaka will have to explain to us whether Esscal is going to be just for the people of Spain, and so the fancy that the Euskalian train will continue to be in two directions, and that the Spanish Government will get rid of it by means of AH, or at last there will be an AT between travellers. Without knowing all this, nothing can be planned. I think that's the first thing we have to do, we have to listen to the people, listen to all the assembled councils, start from the synagogue, and all the municipal councils to the Wild Sea, all of us have to stay with each other. We must consider how to remove the modifications which are now present, for we need not make a bacteria of 453 million to remove them. These modifications often work with far less and more punctual acts. Because often we want the matar moscas a cañonaceos. And I think it's the model of this sur ferrovariae, according to the data we've got today. So I think what we ought to ask from the critical point of view, but what we ought to ask from the political responsibilities is that these two projects should be cancelled, that we may well consider what the needs are, what are the projections of the merchandise (we all see the strategicity of the Bill-yard), and see what the needs of transport and merchandise are, and according to which the wants of the people are now, and what is to be done and what is to be given, or what is to be done, if we do not need to get new offers, what is to become of the present. I think that's missing, and everything else is the accptar lo que est ha ha. I think that's a mistake. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Ugarte. Passing on the answers, Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u44	I will begin by replying to Mr Damborenea, because he has asked a very clear question: "Are you in favour of the southern railway variant?". We are in favour of a southern railway variant that pulls goods from all, all urban cores (of all, not some yes and no others). We are in favour of a southern railway variant that minimizes social and environmental impacts, that minimizes them. Of course, the 2015 project does not make them minimal. Should I answer it? Obviously, "putting it out of all possible nuclei," as you say in your transaction, is like saying that we are going to have some first and second municipalities, and that is not acceptable in this country. It's not admissible. Because Mr. Zorrilla says, "Are the victims of Santurce?" No! No! The people of Santurce are not going to be victims; the people of Basauri are going to be victims. Do you consider it acceptable, as mayor of a municipality, that in Basauri they have a problem because they have taken it away from Santurce? No, we will have to give a global solution. And that's not what you're up to so far. Because there is a first phase with certain deadlines and funding, and an indeterminate second phase and in the air. And that obviously needs to be resolved. But, of course, you say – this has been said by Mr Andueza – "I agree on the outcome of dialogue, negotiation and consensus". With whom? If it's been between a counselor and a minister! Of course, there has been a consensus among them. Where has there been a consensus with all citizens? Where has there been a consensus with the affected municipalities? The Barakaldo City Council (motion adopted on 25 May): "The Barakaldo City Council urges the Department of Economic Development" (with the favourable votes of the PNV and the PSE) "that, before presenting any new partial or definitive solution or alternative, they communicate and agree with the municipalities and open spaces for direct participation to neighboring and ecological platforms and associations". In other words, Barakaldo City Council is asking the Department of Economic Development to agree with environmental associations. Where are we? Where are we? So, what's here is a tremendous lack of information. When we ask in the motion the study of economic viability is because obviously it is being demanded by the citizenry. And I agree that these are obviously high costs. It is also true that 4% of goods are transported by road right now, but from the European Union we have a demand of around 40%, which is what is being transported in Germany. And then Mrs. Ugarte will have to tell the people of the Left Margin what happens when we multiply by ten the number of goods that pass right now through the center of Santurce, Sestao, Barakaldo, Olabeaga, etc. Because the question is not what we have now, but what we will have in the future. And obviously, as an idea, the southern railway variant is appropriate. Another thing is that the current project is not. So the politically sensible position is to try to give solutions to the people who are being challenged right now. Because, of course, our group – and I answer your second question, Mr Damborenea – is not in favour of the high-speed train, of this high-speed train project, but, unlike what Mrs Ugarte says, it is not going to be built, unfortunately we believe it is going to be built, because it is becoming an irrefutable political objective, when it is a tremendous mistake. And what is going to happen is that we are going to have tunnels that in Gipuzkoa are going to be used to plant mushrooms or to make txakoli wineries, nothing more, but in Bizkaia there can be a tunnel that can be used to save us the 200 million that right now will cost the second phase of the southern railway variant, because what needs to be done is to rationalize the infrastructures. And, well, Mr. Andueza said, "Provide solutions, be proactive." Have you read the motion? I and our group do not care that there is no agreement with the government. We don't care. The debate, of course – if I agree with Mrs Ugarte – is taking place in political terms, but we do not lack political courage. Political courage is to go where the people, to whom a sword of Damocles is being laid, go where the people of Gorostiza and say humbly: "We do not have the political force to oppose this roller, we do not have the political force enough, and therefore, what we have to do is to propose solutions so that at least you do not suffer the consequences that come from this roller which, as has been proven, has no intention of reaching any agreement, and not for lack of proactivity of the opposition." That's political courage. For us, too, it would have been easier to say no to the southern railway variants, but the sensible position is to give solutions to people. And our group is always going to be more with people than with other high-policy issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u45	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mr. Damboreea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u46	Well, the representative of EH Bildu tells us that the Y is not going to be made. What I guarantee you is that if you continue to rule the People's Party, it will be done. And as proof I put it, in the last four years – the last parliamentary term, the one of the economic crisis – it has been reversed twice as much as in the previous seven years of economic goodness. Therefore, whether you want to bet or not we bet, but what I guarantee you is that if you rule the People's Party you will make the Y. You tell us that infrastructure needs to be improved, but I have to ask you the same question, because then you criticize everything: Are you in favor of the southern variant, or not? Because it wasn't clear to me! He says infrastructure needs to be improved, but, hey, are they in favor, or are they against it? And to the representative of Podemos I have to say the same, because you have given me the same answer as when you talk about the European Union: the European Union does, but it is not. Hey, this is the one. This is the one! So, the southern railway variant does, but this one doesn't. And which one do you propose? No, no! Which one do you propose? Sure, tell us what you're up to. Which one do you propose? So, let's see, here the subject is very simple. Here are five groups, three of us are in favour, we agree, you use the arguments of those we agree, to remove the goods from the urban cores, to favor the departure of goods from the port of Bilbao, as little impact as possible... But then in the end it seems that you can't be in favour of any infrastructure. And then, Mr. Becerra, lack of transparency... I don't know how we have to tell him or explain! They have just said this: the allegations must be answered, in the transaction we have made, we have put "with the greatest possible consensus". He reads us the Barakaldo City Council agreement. And what's contrary to what we're going to agree on today and we're going to approve here today? If it is said that we must agree with everyone and seek the greatest possible consensus! Now, we also know that the greatest possible consensus is not unanimity, which will never exist. Finally, and to conclude, this is a political rather than a technical debate. Well, yes, and no. Because, Mr Becerra, I tell you and I have told you that it seems good to me that if you can use a tunnel instead of two, you can make a tunnel. If it's cheaper... You say we save 200 million? Hey, it's gonna look fantastic to me. Now, I'm just telling you one thing, when you say it's not technical: man, it's technical, because Adif's technicians will have to say whether it's feasible or not. I'm not. So, the decision is political? Yeah, but about technical reports that say if that's viable or not viable. Do you understand me? Whatever it is to save the money to the administration will seem fine to me, that's where I agree with you. And if you have to make a bigger tunnel, then you have to see how much more it costs to make that tunnel bigger or equal... I don't know if it's technically viable and I don't know the cost of both things, that we'll have to see them. That is why I told you that we agreed with the paragraph in your explanatory statement! But it's just that you propose that that be done because yes, and I told you that because yes, it turns out that it can't be done. Is it political? Yeah, sure. It is a political decision that we will take the goods out of the urban centres and promote the competitiveness of the port of Bilbao. That's a political decision. And then it has its technical part, because it's the technicians – I don't see any politicians plotting lines anywhere – who take and say where and how to go. And I'm sorry, I'm not going to argue with you there. You can discuss everything you want, but I'm not going to tell a technician where the track is better or where..., or if the tunnel has to be twice as big or it doesn't have to be twice as big, or if you can fit through the same tunnel a high-speed train and one that isn't. As I do not know, then, I will wait for that study to be made, because I do find it interesting that this study be made, and depending on what you tell us, political decisions can be made. And this is a project that's in the beginning. It's at the beginning. If you can bring anything you want! Now, the contributions have to be because you're in favour of improving. But the contributions to hinder or make impossible, that is not to be in favor of the project.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u47	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Mr. Ariza, Basque Socialists, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u48	Mr. Becerra, you always want a whole, but to get that all is not possible patches. We must have global solutions. Whatever you want me to tell you, I trust the technical reports. I'm waiting for you. Through this agreement we will have them, we will have the opportunity to have them and to negotiate, and to speak, and to agree, and also to respond, why not, to the concerns and demands of the different municipalities, which, as I said before, channel the feeling and concerns of the citizens. And a few months ago Mrs. Tapia, here present, was reunited with the mayors, and I imagine that if the mayors ask her to meet again. I don't think I have a problem. But, finally, as I was saying, you have to move from the "there's that," to the "what," and for that you have to concretely, not patch. Global solutions, not punctual solutions. But, man, to me his answers, those "yes but no" answers, "we agree but not..." No, no, Do you agree, or do you disagree? Then, from there, if you agree, we will look for solutions and look for the most viable technical solution. And if we save a hell of a lot better money. And if we get through these global solutions, the conditions are as minimal as possible or no, honey over leaflets. We'll meet there, we're in that dynamic. I hope and hope that you will be, too, in the future, and so that we can all make this project a reality. And to break up with you, two little things. You said you had to be brave. Well, look, I can tell you that in some concrete projects, such as the high-speed train or the same one, the Basque Socialists have had enough courage to defend them by layer and sword to the end, despite the circumstances. And I think a good understanding is enough few words. I believe that, if anything we have demonstrated on this earth during these years, it has been precisely bravery. And I admire that you're always saying that you're with people, but it just seems like we should be with Martians. Anyway. We have a lot of mayors who attend to citizens' demands every day. No, no! Don't do it like that, it's no headline. We're with the people. We on this issue have been talking to environmental groups for more than ten years, with groups of neighbours. Therefore, do not come to give us here any lesson of anything, because, besides being neophytes, you are doing what we have been doing for more than thirty years. Over thirty years. (Berbotsa) That in politics, gentlemen of Podemos, it's all...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u49	Silence. Quiet, please. Please!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u50	... absolutely all invented. And you, no matter how hard you try, are not going to come here to discover the gunpowder, because the gunpowder is already invented.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u51	Silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u52	Mrs Ugarte said that with small solutions many things can be advanced. Well, maybe so, but on this issue it's likely that, unfortunately, that's not the case. You said you had to plan well, analyze... I think we're at that stage. I think we're at that stage. You said that the high-speed train is not going to be done, which I think is not true, because I am firmly convinced that it is going to be carried out. And you were talking about examples, saying that in Euskadi we have our own airports in Castellón. Well, in Euskadi and Gipuzkoa. I'll remind you of three. One in Epele: more than 10 million invested so that the plant cannot be used even at 50%. Deskarga: I don't even know how many times you paralyzed him when you were in government, because you were unable to find timely solutions to specific problems. Not to mention the more than 45 million who gave it to a builder for doing nothing. Anyway, what do you want me to say? As a python, I wish you exactly the same success as your manager. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u53	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians, Mr. Zorrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u54	Yes, thank you. Mr Becerra, I am sure that the neighbours of Basauri and Bilbao must be resolved! Who said they're not going to be solved? It is anticipating a problem, which also has no doubt that the information study of that second phase will see, and you and the municipalities concerned will be able to put forward the initiatives you want and the arguments you understand, and, as we have said, will seek the greatest possible consensus. But what you are proposing, opposite sensu, is that Santurtzi's neighbors remain victims until the second phase is resolved, I understand. With regard to EH Bildu, well, neither in technical terms nor in political terms, anything new under the sun, except the visionary powers of Mrs Ugarte, who seems to have also been infected with Mr Becerra. You're still anchored in the past, you're still anchored in the no. Addressing this issue in the past legislature, Mrs. Beitialarrangoitia said "We are in the no. " Well, it's about time they left the no and went into the positive. Of course, this project is not incompatible with the improvement of existing infrastructure. One doesn't take away the other. Both improvements are necessary for us. As for what you said about the Basque Y, I must make it clear to you that the goods of the Basque Y are not in doubt. Always, from the moment it was planned, it has been considered and planned to collect a mixed traffic: travelers and goods. And so it is conceived and so it will be done, despite its predictions. And I would tell you that what is EH Bildu's proposal to solve the problem of the entry and exit of goods from the port of Bilbao, because to say that not to the southern variant railway is easy, but tell us what is your proposal to solve this problem of the entry and exit of goods from the port of Bilbao. Close the port? Then you'll have a chance to answer me. What is your proposal to solve the problems, discomforts and insecurities that the neighbors of Ezkerraldea and Meatzaldea have with the traffic of goods through their urban cores? Then you will also have the opportunity to answer me. Their approaches are already known to us. Its approach is no: no to the growth of the port, no to the southern railway variant, no to the TAV, no to Petronor, no to the incinerator... With their approaches we could probably be more environmentally sustainable, but we would be increasingly poor, with less productive economic activity, with more unemployment, and therefore with much less income and resources for the development of the social policies that they demand to increase annually. The Abertzale left has always proposed that a social debate be opened on the organization of the territory and the models of transport. In this case, they also raise the question of the southern railway variant and the VAD. And in this sense, as Mr Andueza told Elkarrekin Podemos, we must tell them that the others have been working for more than thirty years, debating and working on this matter. And you weren't even expected. Well, I'm sorry, some did, as some of the members of his bench were part of the government that approved the Euskadi Territorial Railway Sector Plan in 2005 and that also approved, drafted the study of alternatives to the draft outline in 2005 and 2007. Do you know who was holding the Environmental and Land Management Council at that time, pushing forward this project of the southern railway variant, to which they are now opposed? Therefore, the same debate must first have it within its own home, to be clarified. That's what you have, Mrs. Ugarte, carrying so many backpacks on you, that if it's not one, it's the other that comes out to shine. Look at your colleagues and often allies of Elkarrekin Podemos, who have a constructive talent before this infrastructure, and even, even being critical with the high-speed train, in three of the six points of your non-law proposition refer to it and its enhancement. Follow your example. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u55	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. And finally, the representative of the EH Collect Group, Mrs. Ugarte, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u56	Well, "The Government of Lakua considers the proposal of the Ministry of Development to be weak and incomplete, since this line only provides for the carriage of passengers." He's got asthma, he's got Arantza Tapiak, he's got a baby. You see, the superiority of your three parties is very well known, and reason, I believe, knows all the people, and knows them all. The empirical reality is the rectic, and there are the great sub-frastructures... We've been en el no, and you've been en el sí a la supersur, una ruina de proyecto, en el sí al superputo de passia, que sido porta ruina de proyecto; e eí a la amlicion del puerto, we'll see the same thing with que tampo la titoe, we'll see the same thing with the Métro, not to say what's gone beyond the pestilence, and so on. I'll give you a piece of data about the way the government works, and I'll give you examples of the gym. Look, when I got to Dieputium, all the romances, all the carbonese and each of them cost over a million Euro. When we got there, all the rhotondas had a cost of less than 500,000 dollars. You'll tell me if it's badgestio... Or what we do, what we do. The engineer and the technician, it's very good to be here and they have the ability to make fun of them and make lines and make plans, but above all, the political must be a decent management of public money. And a decent management of public money is to be an auster in politics, to find efficacy and efficiency, and to seek social utility. And that's five, that's five! What we care about is projecting, projecting, and assigning great works. And then the use of the future, but once you've spent all your money, then hardly anybody tells us anything, is it? What are you doing with the Supersur? I'm the only one who knows, because of course you don't know, that I'm the player. The superporated one, thanks to the fact that sensatically, when Ana Oregi entered, he was a counselor and decided that this project was to be abandoned. And that project was cancelled because Madrid didn't have any money. And I think, and I don't know whether I'm going to succeed as a Pitonis or not, but there's no money at AHTra, and that's why there's no agreement between Madrid and the Lake. Ze Madrid doesn't want to guide the transportation of the merchandise. So, if AHT's project isn't for transportation, what's the meaning of the Building Sur Ferrovaria's project? Am I against Variante sur ferrovaria? I didn't say that. Am I against this project? I'm against this project. I don't think the project is necessary. I don't think it's necessary to spend 453 million in a transport rate with a maxim of 20% success. When the second part is still to be done, when we don't know what will happen. I do not assent to the affirmative, much less if we speak of these great quantities of public money. And it would be proper for all of you to apply the same ideas, and to act with the same seriousness and the same responsibility, for it would not be a waste of public money now. I think, when we're planning this kind of infrastructure, we've got to stop and see what's in the case of these substructures, what's the claim, because we don't put the order element on the table, and we often know what sort of positive projections they make when they're evaluated from a few years after they're evaluated. Because I don't know any studios yet... and the lawsuits... and the... cumplico... I don't know, I don't know a single one. So I'm not gonna be Lola Pitonis, but I don't have a lot of others, who have studios, and who are technically good in that, either. Because it's never been fulfilled. Oraindik ikusteke was born the Gasco demand study of the subway of Donostialdea zer Puntutaraino beteko den. If you're going to have as many travelers as Gasco said and his demand studies. We'll see what the Supersur ra's lawsuit said, what was the economic tuner plan of the Road? What's the economic tuner plan of the gymine crematorium? What's the number of tons going to take to that crematorium? I'd like to see what those famous plannings are about to be played on. We need more seriousness. We need more seriousness. There are alternatives and alternatives to remove the pass and solve the situation. The alternative is to talk to the people is to talk to the councils, and to address political solutions to the minimum amount of money, with the smallest investment, as much as possible, to find the solution as possible. It's called social accessibility. There is a technique, which is scientific, which investigates it, and that can be done if there is a political will. If the will continues to invest in the concrete, if it continues in this exhausted model, we shall not arrive at remedying it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Ugarte. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the original text of Mr. Carollo's motion to Becerra. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 69; 72; supporters 11. The contrary, 61; white, 0; abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u58	So the original motion has not been accepted. We'll next vote for the popular Euscals, the Basque Socialists, and the Middle Amendors who have signed the media. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 69; 72; supporters of 45; opponents of the opposite, 27; white, 0; abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u59	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Five point in theme list: "Mation, introduced by the parliamentary members of the Basque Groups of Laura Garrido Knörr, concerning the delay of DSBE and Professional Enplegu Service. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs Garridio, it's yours to introduce and dismiss the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. President, the chief of departments aren't... So, Congressmen, good morning to all of you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u61	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u62	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. On the 10th of November the previous day, the Popular proposed another as well as the Pope, and debated on this subject on December 15th. In this proposal, Popoul Party asked for a security reform in four months' time. In the preceding law, we have to say how we lost the opportunity to open the debate. Twice, because we had two opportunities and the debate, we must say, it was denied in the Parliament. On 10 November, the People's Party presented an initiative for the Basque Government to draw up a proposal for a reform of the regulations governing the protection system in the Basque Country within four months. We have already done so in the past legislature through a bill, and a popular legislative initiative, with more than 40,000 signatures, was also supplemented to urge the start of the debate on the amendment of the Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act. This initiative, presented, as I said, on November 10, 2016, was discussed on December 15, and an agreement was reached between the rest of the groups urging the Government to prepare a diagnosis, a report on the situation of GIR, within five months. We specifically called for a proposal to reform the rules governing social aid. We had the opportunity to open the debate as well as the last legislature; we had a popular legislative initiative, as I said, endorsed by more than 40,000 signatures, and, on the other hand, the People's Party presented a proposal for a law. As I have already pointed out on many occasions, these initiatives were not even taken into consideration, and therefore there was no opportunity to open the debate in this House. This agreement was approved between the rest of the groups – in which the People's Party abstained – as he said, that within five months a diagnostic report had to be drawn up by the Basque Government, and subsequently in that agreement it was stated that the deadline of one month (i.e. the deadline is 31, since the attendance was also extended on 31 May) would be established to establish the most appropriate mechanism to facilitate the participation of different actors and institutions. Esan doubtan bezala, Alderdi Popularra abstained zen konponbideak atzeratzen zirelako. We abstained because, as I pointed out earlier, the agreement delayed the solutions on a subject that we certainly understood could not afford to have more delays. There is already a diagnostic report backed by the data, there was also a technical report to which Mr Toña also referred in the last parliamentary term. When talking also about the participation of actors and institutions, the question was how that participation in that second paragraph to which I referred, which had to be established within one month, would materialize. We already know what the procedure is: the two amendments tabled and at the end the compromise agreement reached tell us to set up..., it is not called this, but at the end it is a presentation, because we have to ensure the participation of different agents and institutions within the Committee on Employment, Social Affairs and Youth. All of this led us to ask a question to the Counsellor at the last full checkpoint, asking her explicitly what reasons were leading the Basque Government to delay the income-guarantee reform. After, Madam Counsellor, that the last parliamentary term had been passed on in this matter, it now seems that the Government does not want to assume its responsibility to forward a bill, which is what it is, and delays it in time. In the government program it is placed in the second quarter of 2018, and at the same time it is shielded in Parliament with that procedure that must be established to ensure the participation of the various institutions and agents. During the preceding law, the government itself, the government itself, was at last the Government, the Government, the Government, and the President of the Galucullus, who had done nothing of the same conduct, and is now continued in the same manner. We had two amendments initially to this initiative of the People's Party, in which we urged that as soon as possible the Government already submit a bill to start work. We had two amendments: that of EH Bildu and Podemos spoke expressly of making a presentation, and that of PNV and PSOE spoke of encouraging the participation of different actors, institutions and groups within the Committee on Employment, Social Policy and Youth. Well, we understand that this is one more delaying maneuver. We have already had the participation of agents, institutions and different collectives in the diagnostic report prepared by the Basque Government, which was already presented by the Counsellor on 31 May. In other words, the councillor herself told us about all the entities and groups consulted in the preparation of the report. He spoke expressly of the Civil Dialogue Bureau, of the entities forming part of the board of directors (Caritas, EAPN, FEVAS, REAS, Gizartea Elkartea), apart from trade unions (Commissions), Confebask and also Ararteko, who has also submitted an already specific report on this issue in this Parliament, which you should already be paying attention to in some of the issues mentioned in the same, when reference is made to the lack of coordination, to the existence of a single model of care in the different offices of Lanbide, when reference is made to the deficit in the training of Lanbide staff, or when reference is made to the lack of operationality in all that has to do with the implementation of computer supports. We therefore do not share that approach. We in the People's Group believe that there is already a need for a legal text on which to start work. It was already necessary a long time ago, and so it was also felt by this group when a bill was presented in the last legislature, after you stole the debate from the citizens denying the start of the debate of that popular legislative initiative. And already in this legislature our first debate, which we raised above the table, was that the government in four months would bring a proposal, a bill to amend the regulations, a proposal to reform the regulations governing social aid. We do not agree with the procedure. On the one hand, when talking about the involvement of agents and agencies and institutions, they have already participated in the preparation of this diagnostic report. You, Madam Counsellor, reported and explained in very detail that you had participated. We already have a first turnout. And if now (the agreement you have reached) in the Committee on Employment, Social Affairs and Youth has to ensure the participation of these actors, institutions and collectives, it is a second participation. Then, when you have to refer the bill, and in accordance with section 8 of the Law Development and Normative Provisions Act, you must also give public hearings to organizations and associations that bring together the citizens concerned and that are related to the object of the Act. That is to say, we are already talking about three hearings: the one you have already given in drawing up the diagnostic report; the one you, with the approval of the agreement that you propose to us here today, will constitute within the committee; the third, in drawing up the draft law. And a fourth, because let's not forget that once the bill is introduced, there is a seven-day deadline for groups to be able to request the appearances of members of the Government or of people who can also contribute something in relation to the bill submitted. And then, once the appearances have been made, whether the debate is going on or not a full amendment is being tabled, or, if it does not succeed, the debate in the committee is opened with the creation of the corresponding paper. That is to say, you, with the expectation that the participation of these agents and institutions will again be guaranteed, are ultimately delaying the drafting of this bill. You had it in the legislative calendar in the second quarter of 2018. And it is true that they advance it to the first quarter in the agreement they have reached. It seems to us insufficient, because I have already told you that in the previous parliamentary term we have already put initiatives on the table, and at the beginning of this parliamentary term we have put forward a concrete initiative in relation to the amendment of this regulation. That is to say, you raise more hearings where we have already had the voice of the citizens, and where above we will have the voice of the citizens, affected collectives, once you fulfil your responsibility, face your responsibility, already forwarding this bill once and for all. It gives us the feeling that this Government is once again abandoning its responsibilities by delaying the referral of that bill, which does not want to face its responsibility, and what we ask in this motion, once again, is for the Basque Government to move to action where they have begun to recognize a problem. Because it should also be noted that in the last parliamentary term you denied this problem. Then it was, following the evidence of the data and the finding of a reality (the reality of Lanbide's operation, the reality of the management of social aid, the reality of connecting the perception of these aids to employability), when it was clearly seen that the system was watering everywhere. We assume that the self-interest of the self-interest of the self-political Party has to be submitted a proposition to the legislature in order to change the rules of social assistance. Madam Counsellor, I would also say to Mr Lehendakari, but he is not here at this time in plenary, we cannot afford not to act, not to let this government continue to act, not to let go of time, to delay solutions, as if the mere course of time, or to hear again... It seems to us very well that it is heard, the participation of agents, institutions and collectives, but it is that you have already taken them into account, already we will take them into account when..., or, rather, you will take them back into account when you draft the bill, and then again we will take them into account when we request the appearances. What is needed now, Madam Counsellor, without further delay, is a normative text. You also put forward a report with a number of proposals, which I understand you make your own, and those could be translated into a legal text or a law-class text, into a bill. And I am also not worth the excuses, because if this is a priority issue, or it was a priority issue, according to the explanations that you have given us – both you, in the appearance in which you explained the general lines of your department, or the lehendakari himself in your investiture session, in which you were telling us to address this issue without delay – it seems to us that it is quite late that you envisaged in the legislative calendar. Another thing is that the forecasts of the legislative calendar are fulfilled, because we have already seen what happened in the last legislature, that four or five months after the end of the legislature, because seven or eight bills of the twenty-seven – if I recall correctly – that you promised, the acceleration was introduced in the last months of the legislature, and I do not have to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that you did not even allow the extension of the deadline in two bills (that of the victims of political motivation and the tourism bill), which also did not extend the deadlines, and that a plenary session had to be expressly authorised in July for adoption. On the other hand, I am not entitled to excuses, because you where you have wanted have already complied, or considered that you have complied, by already forwarding the draft law of ports, of maritime transport. That bill is already in the House, it has already been replaced, it has taken place in the past Bureau, and therefore it is already beginning to be dealt with in the Basque Parliament. And you also know, Madam Counsellor, that the draft law on the energy sustainability of public administrations has also been adopted in the past Governing Council. We are talking about a government that was formed on 26 November. That is, to be a matter of the utmost priority, because too much time has passed, or too much time is going on, and you continue to delay the solutions, which the People's Party does not share. You delay the solutions, on the one hand by opening..., you do not call it that, but a forum of participation, to ensure the participation of all institutions, agencies and agents, who have already participated and who also have the guarantee that they will participate, when the bill is drafted, subsequently, in the very handling of the bill in the House. And on the other hand, they did it in the first quarter of 2018, which I'm afraid they're not going to meet, because they're all over the place. That is, with the appearances, which are submitted by December, you to submit a bill in the first quarter of 2018 must already have the opinions and all the mandatory documents and reports that a bill requires. Therefore, I am very afraid that, if you have no longer put yourselves to the work and to this subject, then these deadlines will not be met at all. This is something that we deeply regret, because this issue already requires immediate solutions. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u63	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u64	Hello, good morning, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Members of the legislative class: We're here to talk about RGI again today. I'm delighted to have the consumer. From this starting point we must deal with the subject which is so important. Last Thursday, 22 June, in the face of Mrs Garrido's presentation of this proposal that she has commented on, the rest of the groups came together with an honest intention of each and every one of us to reach an agreement that would allow us to keep alive the spirit of what was agreed on 15 December. A consensus agreement that would allow us to address the objectives of reforming a tool as important to citizens as income guarantee income. A coherent and respectful agreement with what has already been agreed in December, as it cannot be otherwise, and which would also enable us to fulfil our commitment. In that sense, Garrido anderea, eskerrik asko. An agreement that urges us to continue to work for this reform from the calm, from the consensus and from the will not to enter into content, so that we can continue to work precisely since the agreements; agreements that are essential for a serious commitment to social cohesion. An agreement with a clear will to set aside those who stand on the sidelines; not to allow the run-run of the People's Party, which questions the system, to hold back; not to allow exclusionary speeches, the criminals of poverty or of impoverished people, to echo in this House. An agreement that would allow us to find a convenient way to deal with this reform, but, above all, an agreement that guarantees citizen participation. It's been hard, it's been pretty hard, but we've done it. And that is a source of joy, as I said at the beginning, because we are here under the mandate of the citizenry, which requires us to put forward improvements in such fundamental matters. I think it is important to make it clear that our hand is, was and will continue to be stretched out to work. That with the social actors, as it cannot be otherwise, we must approach this process, and therefore we must build a reform away from political revenues, without gnawing, without gnawing now, because it is not appropriate, and with the ultimate aim of ensuring the maximum possible contribution, so that this regulation is consensual and therefore improved for all. The time will come for us to fight for the contents, I have no doubt. Today we have demonstrated the relevance, the possibility and the opportunity also to address a debate in line with the citizens we represent and in line with the commitments adopted. Eskerrik asko talde guztioi egindako exfortzuagatik proposeen hau onartzeko. And, Mrs. Garrido, I don't know what maneuvers you're talking about; I think they're just in your head. For us it is not worth undertaking this reform in a hurry and running. Not because it is not urgent or important, but because, according to the saying of "see me slowly, that I am in a hurry", if we run and do things unilaterally, in a kind of proposal like this that we are working on, if we do not listen to the citizenry, if we do not listen to the perceptive population, if we do not listen to expert people, it is possible that the final product that comes out is partial and therefore not shared. And, therefore, not enough for the citizenship we represent. Mrs. Garrido, you said if we don't move, you're gonna bring in your own project. Mrs. Garrido, in December you were left alone, your group was left alone. You will have to think about whether it is worth staying alone and putting sticks on wheels on an issue that affects more than 100,000 people in the Autonomous Community. In that it is clear that all the collectives have a great deal to say, it is clear that no one is left, and it is clear that citizen participation is not an indispensable option. It's not something we can get past dots on. It is not something that the citizenship we represent deserves. For us, I insist, there is no one left, and it is essential to listen to everyone. But I'm not going to give any more importance or space to your zurrumurru. Ez du take inor erepresentatzen. Eta, egora honetan, zer lekutan kokatu nahi duzuen birpentsatu beharko zenukete. We're still available to work, we're still holding hands. We have proposals, we have many, even if there is someone who says otherwise, and we have every will to build with the utmost consensus here. But, and in an indispensable way, with citizenship, with which it has been in what goes in process and with which it has remained out. Also with the one out there asking to defend the RGI. And also, of course, with the framework of not a step backwards in the right to the income guarantee. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. The representative of the EH team, Mrs. Blanco, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u66	Thank you, ma'am. Good noon, everyone. We believe that today the popular is in danger. He presents another proposal over the subject agreed six months ago. In December, for the purpose of improving the regulation which regulates social aids, or at least that is what they say. And we cannot deny that the agreement in a short time may lead to steps or changes; and when agreements, agreements, and goods are, it is better not to move, not to touch. There's the danger we're talking about. Therefore, to begin with, EH Collect clearly shows that if we were to do anything at the moment, we should only be able to confirm the path agreed on in December. Because that path is running and we've entered a tremendous process with the rental document show to boost revenue entries. It may be, perhaps, by going on at different speeds, for a discussion of doubtful points, but if we have the same starting point, we shall have no difficulty in dealing with the process of perfect agreement. On the other hand, if we start the way from different startings, we will find it very difficult to agree with any purpose. And EH collect has its starting-point clearly stated, and the starting point is very clear. No doubt we have to re-establish the agreement with the backup system. To the agreement that this law was accepted, based on association, rights, and social justice, a stronger, more extensive protection system... That's what we want. That is why, from our point of view, it is absolutely necessary that we continue to work to amend the Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act in a participatory and absolutely responsible manner. Because this group has on many occasions manifested itself and has said and raised the need to amend this regulation, but not because we believe that the system is not valid, but because it is clear that since it was created many things have changed. Since the adoption of this legislation, we have been living in a country where the socio-economic reality is different and has changed substantially. Our country endures more poverty, more chronic poverty, more inequalities, a serious social fracture. And it is our responsibility to meet these new needs, which are currently not covered. And it is also necessary to modify and work because the system, for different reasons, has been discredited and questioned. And that's why, in addition to changing the rules, no doubt, and unfortunately, it will also be up to us to do a lot, but a lot of pedagogy. Let us therefore take part in a process driven by the groups in this House, which we are responsible for legislating. But let us also involve the other indispensable agents in this process. When we make extensive deals, we do not only consider the other political groups, but also other social and unional motives. It cannot be forgotten that regulations here are capable of regulating laws, but that those which are now in this system are better acquainted with dysfunctions and gaps, are the users, experts, and that these preparations are every day directed in one way or the other. So we have to change the system? Sure. But if it be done, let it be to strengthen and extend the whole system; let it be to obtain a more cohesion of society, to support its dignity; let it be to restore the continent. And that's precisely the delivery correction we've signed today, in order to restore the spirit of the December. So let's make the course that begins together, let's share the cares, because it's the system of everybody, because it's the rights of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u68	Thank you very much, President. The Socialist Group welcomes the broad consensus in this House to deal with a reform of the Basque social protection system with self-imposed deadlines, and above all with great will, in order to strengthen it, and to meet those who need it and for various reasons are currently being excluded. It is the commitment of my party and the Basque Nationalist Party, because we signed it last November, that this reform will be addressed from a specialist diagnosis, and that it will be transferred to this House in the first half of the parliamentary term. It was the will of this Parliament, and the compromise amendment was adopted on 15 December last year, that this diagnosis should be forwarded by May with proposals on which the contributions should be made. That commitment and will have been fulfilled, and the report submitted by the Government on 31 May to the Committee on Employment and Social Policy fulfils that. And that commitment and that will have been maintained by the groups that we subscribe to this amendment, which, apart from the legitimate differences that can be maintained over the proposals, have endeavoured to find a formula for channeling that debate out of stridency. The Basque system of social protection is one of the best investments that Basques have been able to make as a country to ensure social cohesion. Over time, we can show shortcomings that we can improve, but the most important thing is that this Parliament wants to make it stronger, so that it remains a reference in our entire environment. The Socialists have participated in every single moment when we have had to make decisions on this system for 30 years. We have done so in the Government and we have done so in the opposition, including by keeping serious differences with the incumbent Executive on other issues, but we have always striven to perfect the model. Now we also want to do so, and we hope that with broad consensus, and that is what we will turn to in the coming months. We believe that the compromise amendment that we are going to adopt today with the agreement between the Basque Nationalist Party, the Basque Socialist Party, Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu takes a step towards further progress in this direction and soon be able to undertake income-guarantee reform. And we Socialists do not lose hope that the Group of the European People's Party will once again work on a calm, calm and honest reform of income-guarantee income, abandoning electoral discourses, and that it will start thinking about working with all groups to improve the regulations currently in force for the benefit of all citizens. And since the subject is very clear, I think there is nothing more to say. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u69	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Argrei, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good noon to all. We have a discussion about the delay of the rent and Professional Peace Office reform. Popular party insists on the subject. She repeats over and over again, "Eunkjo's running late to ensure the incomes with the reforms of the law that regulates the rent, and we don't share her point of view." The other spokesman, as has been said, at the beginning of this settlement, December 2016, the Eplegu and Police Department of Society had been given five months' time to ensure the incomes of income for the improvement of incomes, to present the fundamental Diagnostic report in the parliament. The chief physician of the Artolaries performed it at the given time, and gave necessary explanations on the committee on the 31st of May, which is as explained here. Therefore, getting involved in what could have been and it didn't make any sense, Mrs Garrido. We are in the eleventh legislature, and the Basque Government is complying with the requests made by Parliament, and it is also doing so within the time allowed for that purpose. We do not at all agree with the arguments which Poppular party keeps around this subject during the interpelation day, and in advance. That's why we're not gonna protect the basic initiative. Besides, it goes beyond the order of December and requires a complete change of society's protection. I insist, the Government has complied with the request made by Parliament. In addition to presenting the basic document for the improvement of income guarantee income, he was urged to lead the modification process in the commission, where he came to give the relevant explanations. This request was made by Bildu's spokesman, Mrs Kortajarena, and shared by Elkarrekin Podemos and by the other groups and the Government itself. And in this sense we presented the amendment to the whole with the Socialist Party, in which we asked the government to introduce in the first quarter of 2018 the bill amending Law 18/2008, for income guarantee and social inclusion. And, Mrs Garrido, you have enough parliamentary experience to know what a legislative process within the government itself costs. And, despite the fact that it was planned for the second half of 2018, the government has committed itself to making that effort and advancing and bringing that bill forward for the first quarter. This amendment to the whole of the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, except for the third point, has been included as a compromise amendment tabled by all groups in the House except the People's Party. As long as it makes the change of the law, we are engaged to encourage the occurrences of different organizations, operators, and groups connected with RGI at the Society, and Castile at the Board of Society, to keep their views in consideration of the Government. But if the government works, it'll continue working as soon as possible to bring this bill back here in the first three months. With this correction, agreement, advance, and improvement of the law, we seek petitioners to improve the law. As often as we have said, it seems very important to ensure the incomes by agreement with the change of rent, and to accept them with one mouth if possible. And from this day forward the eubertarians are ready to work in this sense. We've got a great challenge since September to listen to the various teams, operatings, and organizations, to join and send their perspectives to you, and then to work, improve, and agree that the government will send us the bill. In order to do this, the partnership of all the teams is necessary, and the eulogy is a strong commitment to the support of the group. Let's go together, we're on our own welfare system. For that purpose, let's examine and work the bill of law that's going to happen to you. We aim to achieve maximum consensus for the amendment of the income guarantee income regulation. We seek to reach agreements in order to improve this law, in order to continue to protect the worst people who are going through it, without forgetting that we must be responsible and able to respond to current and future needs, so we must achieve an improved and sustainable system over time. To this end, the collaboration of all the groups, actors, associations and institutions they wish to contribute is necessary and essential. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Passing on the answers, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Very briefly, because I think I have been quite graphic in my first presentation, but I would like to take this second round to answer some of the questions that have been argued in this rostrum. Mrs. Guanche was talking about where the dilatory maneuvers are. I refer to the facts. Of course, when you say that there is no one left, I imagine you will apply the same for the 40,000 signatures of the popular legislative initiative. I mean, because of what you think you're so in tune with the street. I imagine that it would not be right for you to consider in the last parliamentary term not even the ILP signed by more than 40,000 signatures. In other words, a door was given, but in addition to the sound, to the voice of Basque citizens represented in these 40,000 signatures. We agree to listen to the collectives! Look, one way to listen to the collectives would have been to take that popular legislative initiative into consideration, but, apart from that, the procedure already ensures that we can listen to the collectives, the institutions, the actors. When a bill is drafted..., I know that you are new to this Parliament, but there is a law that expressly regulates how law-making provisions should be processed with the rank of law, and the Government is obliged to give a hearing to all those collectives that are affected by the law, and in addition issues that affect them or are the subject of the regulation of that law are regulated. And, on the other hand, a bill has already been referred, and another bill has been passed on the Governing Council! In other words, the Government has already taken an interest in these issues. The question is why the Government is delaying the referral of some bills to this House and others not. But, well, it seems that one has already submitted it and another has been approved by the Governing Council. Well, those particular areas have been more fortunate than this area, which I thought was a priority, and this particular issue, for this government. The hearing in the drafting of the bill, but then the groups can request appearances that complete all those suggestions or contributions that have been made by the collectives to whom they are heard. I mean, we're running the risk that, uh, hearing after hearing... Because we have already had a first hearing to draw up this diagnostic report presented in committee; if you now raise another hearing, then there will already be four hearings. And on the other hand, they overlap with me. Apart from overlapping my hearings, it seems contradictory to me the first paragraph with the second! Because if you in the second advance the referral of the bill to the first quarter of 2018, but in the last quarter you have to give audience or participation, guarantee the participation of institutions, agents and collectives, I don't know why you give that audience, if then it will be impossible to incorporate that into a bill that would already have to be drafted by the government, if it is to be referred in that first quarter. I would therefore like to say that this first and second paragraphs are absolutely contradictory. It is that, if the Government wants to submit a draft law, it already had to be drafting it and giving it a hearing, and also making all such reports by the agencies and institutions, which is mandatory to incorporate all reports into a draft law. Of course, the agreement six months ago, Mrs Blanco, seemed insufficient to this group. That's why we abstained. In November, on 10 November, we proposed an amendment to the regulation. It's going to be almost a year! Because time passes fast, and also in this House. The only thing we are asking is for the Government to work and assume its responsibility with the referral of a bill now. And I have told you, Mrs Sánchez and Mrs Arregi, the issue that clearly contradicts the point... the contradiction between the first and the second of the points. Look, the People's Party's intention is to improve. Not only to improve: it is to remedy the shortcomings that have already been detected in the system, that is fair, that is sustainable... Yes, we have one of the most advanced systems in the rest of Spain and Europe, yes, but with the money of the citizens, EUR 500 million is available every year. I believe that this means that the system does not have deficits, that deficiencies are addressed. We are going to continue to work, Mrs Sánchez, don't worry, just as we did when in 2011 we agreed on a proposal to amend the law, in which you accepted the proposal of the People's Party to introduce a control unit, which now also proposes that it be strengthened; as well as now you propose to incorporate the fingerprint, though with nuances, which was a proposal of the People's Party, which the Nationalist Party voted against; as if by rejecting a job the RGI would be suspended... It is that those were proposed by the People's Party, and by working on that then they could be incorporated into the amendment of the law at that time agreed with you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u73	Please finish, Mrs Garrido...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u74	I'm finishing up, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, what I hope is that you are very lucky, but it gives me the feeling that today again you are making this issue spread over time. And I believe that we are not in favour of the work that we have done, and above all the responsibility that we have all acquired with the citizens in solving the problems and concerns they have. And, of course, this is a problem that clearly concerns citizens, and there is nothing more to see than the results in the successive surveys. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u75	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. When the answers are turned on, is anyone willing to join? From there, Mrs. Guanche.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u76	Yes, with your permission, I'll talk from the seat. Mrs. Garrido, Bakarrik Gauzatxo bat, although it doesn't seem to interest you very much. Think, really think why she was alone in December, why she was alone in the previous legislature, why she's still alone now, and what that brings to the interests of the people you represent. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Mrs Sánchez must not speak. From here? Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u78	Yes, please leave the seat, Mrs. President. Mrs. Garrido, the government is not dilated. In fact, it presented a legislative timetable and is going to move forward. There is a commitment to present it in the first quarter rather than in the first half. Therefore, it does not dilate but advances the commitment to bring that bill here, that we hope to be able to count on that concern and all those initiatives and ideas that it has to improve the law. Let's hope you bring them when we work on it. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for Mrs Garrido Knörr's original motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the suffrages given, 71; supporters of the 7; the contrary, 63; white; 1; Absences; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u80	So, not allowed original text. We'll next vote for the middle-term correction of the Basque Socialists, the Podemos, the EH, and the Euncierians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 68; votes given, 71; supporters 64; contraries, 0; white, 0; abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u81	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Number of points in theme list: "Punish another proposal made by the parliamentary band, to inquire after the freedom of the prisoners of great evils. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Arzuga, representative of the EH Group, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, all of you, and good and welcome noon to the Networks, House, and Society. To start with this point I want to connect two informations. A first one tells us that in the Netherlands prisons are being closed, in the Netherlands prisons are being closed for lack of inmates. The other relates to information submitted by the Ministry of the Interior, from which it is extracted that, between 2006 and 2015, 1,814 persons, 1,800 prisoners have died in prison. The first question I would like to ask you is what is the model of state, what is the prison model by which we would be most attracted. Where are we looking? If to Holland, where jails are closed, or to Spain, where 1,814 prisoners die? I'm still with this connection. Between Hernani and Maastricht, in the south of Holland, for example, there are 1,200 kilometers, just a little more than there are between Hernani and Almería. There, in Almería, is Garikoitz Arruarte, a prisoner of Hernani, with a serious and incurable disease: bilateral acute uveitis and ankylosing spondylitis. Gravity disease, incurable, and dispersion, two deadly variables. By far, Garikoitz Arruarte could be in the Netherlands and perhaps benefit from a civilized human prison system that ensures the rights of the prisoner. However, he is in Spain, and unfortunately he has tickets to add to that list of persons killed in prison by the Ministry of the Interior. I remind you: 1,814 in the last ten years. I ask again: with what model of state, with what attitude, with what model of prison we feel most reflected here? Our answer is clear, it is clear. On the 17th of May there were two very strong occurrences at the Human Rights Committee: He reported the situation at the extreme of the eupscal prisoners with severe illness. The intelligent Joseba and Louis Galdós, represented by the representatives of the network movement, a prisoner of 22 eupscals with severe and incurable diseases. Of these 22, some are very familiar cases: Ibon Northragire, Azitzol, Chus Martin, Ibon Fernandez Iradi, Gorka Fraile, Joxeon Lopez de Abechko... We've also treated some of these members in this legislation. Others, they preferred to keep it anonymated. This, to give an example, is the case with Juan of Mari Mariezku. He didn't know, he didn't want the public to do his illness, but yesterday he came out of Duegnasque Prison by article 80.4 of Penal Code, after the national hearing stopped his sentence, because of his severe illness. A good news, no doubt. That's the way EH Collect wants to open it. Known cases or unknown cases, even prisoners with severe illness. They should be on the street according to law enforcement and prison law. But these roads are blocked, also because of political reasons. Blocks the right of examining and being an early diagnosis; the right to receive proper treatment is locked; the right to be attended to in public service, which is transferred to the health service of the prison; and lastly, in cases of anguish and incurableness, the right to calm the consequences with dignity, and to smooth them as far as possible. In this chain of blockades, the last link has been that of Instruction 3/2017 of the Directorate of Prison Institutions. According to this instruction, they can only have access to freedom when the doctor proves the obvious danger to the life of the prisoner. It does not seem that this accreditation is very certain, it does not seem to be correct, in view of the 1,814 deaths recognized by the Ministry of the Interior. We cannot be calm in the face of such figures, we cannot remain impassable in the face of these data and this instruction, which in a way condemns us to reproduce them. More. The Minister of the Interior himself dared to give a final twist to this Russian roulette: the deadline for release will be two months of life expectancy. Presumably, doctors would have the capacity to establish such a term, but we see that it is not. Two doctors explained it to us in another appearance held in the Commission on Human Rights itself; one of the appearances that, from my experience as a parliamentarian, has been more conclusive, more irrebatable than I have seen. Nahia Aia and Esti Gorostiaga, doctors of the Basque Health Service, explained that there is no doctor who can find such a two-month term without seriously failing the most elementary code of ethics. The lifespan of a patient cannot be defined with such precision. This instruction and the subsequent interpretation of the minister pervert the function of the optional, but also pervert the norm, which is not made to keep the prisoner in prison sick, costs what it costs, but precisely to give him the opportunity to be released, to receive palliative care that prevents him from suffering the most, to offer him quality of life, to offer him, if possible, that he has the expectation of extending his life as much as possible. For anything else is but to take hold of the prisoner, it is nothing but revenge. These two doctors, the Gostrosiaga and Ai, explained the situation in which Ibon is found on the board. A particular case, a well-known case. There's a report from 300 other health doctors and a lot of health teams. It's not like this kind of mobilization as a professional about a prisoner, a patient's case. Around a particular case, but around a special case, which may at any moment have a terrible effect. Northeast, tough, Martín, Fernandez, Iradi, Frauile are in great straits, and we don't want a dead man to be killed in prisons or prison doors. This society can't export any other dead bodies. No other tragedy! If we'd like to take a co-operation process. And for this purpose, in order to defend the policy of the Spanish Government, it is essential that they should unite their forces, and that these powers should be more and more numerous. And today I'm going to say that's what we've done. Today, I mean, I see a step forward: With the exception of PP, all the rest of the parliamentary groups (EAJ, PSE, Podemos, EH Collect), we have been able to agree and seek together the sick prisoners. Perhaps the text we are presenting today is not the text of EH Bildu, perhaps it is not strictly the text that none of the groups we are supporting would like to support. But I want to give value to the agreement, because, on a matter that seems complicated and that we now resolve, we do so in shared terms. We do so in shared terms of respect for human rights, respect for the dignity of the person, and respect for what the law says. I also hope that it will help us to agree on other issues as well. We are also bringing together the agreement of society into politics, and in this direction we wish to continue with all of us, because the discourse and action of PP and Spanish government cannot be maintained, and we are proving it. It was urgent to give an answer, and this time, this officer of the law, hope, and hope, will give hopes to the prisoners who are seriously ill. We'll tell them they're not alone, and we'll tell them they're all made up until they're clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u83	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, together the representative of the Podemos, Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u84	Bakartxo Tejeria anderea, Sailburuok, parliamentary colleagues, parliamentary companions. We have carefully read the initiative of parliamentarian Julen Arzuaga on the problem of sick prisoners with serious or terminal problems, and we support the motion, we support the non-law proposal together with the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialists. It has been an engineering of non-law proposition synthesis that must be thanked to those who have raised it. Elkarrekin We can, when he talks about sick prisoners, he doesn't talk about prisoners with more or less rights, he doesn't talk about first and second-class prisoners. We're talking about all the prisoners and prisoners in the jails. We are talking, for example, about the last Basque prisoner we know who died in prison. José Antonio Serrano, from Bilbao, in Zuera was a normal and common prisoner, eighteen years in first degree, in twenty-two square meters, isolated, drug-dependent, mental illness... There were not many institutional statements, there were not many social mobilizations, there was hardly any media space. In our view, this is a problem of dignity, it is a problem of qualifying our democracy. It's a problem that you don't send people to jail to die, you don't send people to chronicle their own crime, you don't send people to become drug addicts in prison, you don't send people to chronicle their diseases. People are sent to prison to serve their sentences in accordance with the court rulings under way, and the law is also enforced. We have known extensively – because we have participated in their discussions – the medical reports of some of the sick prisoners referred to by parliamentarian Julen Arzuaga, such as Ibon Iparragire; we have worked with Drs. Nahia Aia and Estibalix Gorostiaga, among others, and we have seen the expert reports, the medical reports, and we have analysed the situation in Parliament and outside Parliament. We belong to the medical collectives; I myself have been a propagandist of the firm, together with more than three hundred doctors from Euskadi, to raise the indignity of the situation on a humanitarian basis. Doctors are not jailers, and doctors have ethical responsibilities of a humanitarian nature with severely ill and terminal prisoners and prisoners. We have indirectly participated, but we have also read and discussed the international legal documents, the legal documents of the Spanish State, and we have read the proposals of several international organizations that have repeatedly denounced legal uncertainty and the lack of application of the international legal system itself in these matters. We cannot aggravate the situation of our prisoners and prisoners with issues such as AIDS, with issues such as drug addictions, with issues such as chronic diseases not properly carried out, whether or not we have the prison health transferred. The democratic quality of our Government and our country has to do with what kind of treatment we treat people deprived of their liberty. The Constitution of 78, the Penal Code in articles 80.4, 91.1 and 91.3, and article 104.4 of the General Prison Act themselves are explicit and exhaustive in defining third-degree reassignment, reduction of sentences and release in cases of terminal and irreversible serious illness. Our Home Secretary is not well informed. We do not share revenge strategies to organize civil rights (it is impossible), we do not share revenge strategies to organize social rights, and we do not share revenge strategies to organize the management of the prison framework of the majority of prisoners. MP Julen Arzuaga said 1,800: in the last ten years, up to 2,000 prisoners have died. It's official data: 166 AIDS, 126 suicides in the last four years, 158 overdoses... What's going on? Are there no doctors, are there no officials, are there no democratic conscience, are there no quality? Should we not defend the human dignity, the human condition of our people? On what basis do we have democratic prestige and quality as parliamentarians, as a government? Depending on our ability to work with the most vulnerable groups, be it Ibon Iparragire, Sara or other prisoners and prisoners. We cannot help but call attention to the Basque Government in order to improve the health conditions of Basque prisons. He's already transferred. It can be an image, it can be an example for other autonomous communities and for the Spanish Government itself. We consider that giving quality to life, giving quality to death, are elements that go hand in hand. Not only because the Association of the Right to a Dignity Death says so, but because it is part of the same game to give quality to life, to give quality to death also of prisoners and prisoners. It is enough of systematic violations of human rights, it is enough of violations of the law itself, it is enough of not exercising minimum ethical principles as a cross-cutting approach to prison management, the management of the conditions of prisoners and prisoners. Betting on the eye for an eye only leads us to processes that can energize the processes of social reconstruction, which can energize the ongoing peace processes. Some make efforts on the one hand and others fuck it up, others destroy it on the other. It is enough that the revenge strategies break the processes of social cohesion, and it is enough that the processes of revenge break the necessary reconciliation that is at stake in this country right now. That we have reached agreement on four parliamentary groups in this non-legislative proposal is a source of satisfaction for Elkarrekin Podemos, because it can be the beginning, politically, socially and legally, of another way of thinking and of another form of management. And we're getting ready for the prison transfer. We are certainly not in favour, from any point of view, of bloodbathing with prisoners. We are not in favour of bloodbathing with ETA prisoners. We are not in favour of breaking the law. We are not in favour of vengeful, antisocial prison policies outside the framework of the rule of law, outside the framework of modern states, where values of civil rights and social rights have to be the DNA of our behavior. We are in favour of repealing a stupid instruction, which is the 3/2017, from Prison Institutions, which looks like it has gone fast, wrong and to promote electoral opportunisms of one kind or another. The victims, all the victims, must be heard, respected, stories must be shared, but the victims do not make political decisions. We make political decisions, we make political decisions, and the government. The victims, with their pain, with their recognition, with their organizational capacity, with their ability to demand reparation, have a very interesting work that we and we support, but the victims do not make political decisions. We cannot agree, therefore, to end with a prison policy, transferred or not transferred, which does not seek processes of social and political consensus to organize in a code of rights, in a code of a culture of rights, the relationship with our prisoners and prisoners. More with our prisoners and sick prisoners, more with our prisoners and seriously ill prisoners. There is no legal exception, regardless of type, to be prisoners and prisoners of ETA, to be common and common prisoners and prisoners, to be prisoners or prisoners, because they have rights regardless of the crime they have committed. That is the international legal order, that is the legal order in the Spanish State. This is not a matter of opinion, of opinion in the bar, in the street or in Parliament. It's up to us to do it, and it's up to us to do it without paybacks. Finally, there can be no process of social reintegration, there can be no process where we seek the punishment or the victim (the prisoner) to carry out his or her crime without taking into account this culture in the way of organizing the rights of our prisoners and prisoners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u85	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all and everyone. The debate before us today I understand that it should not be distorted, manipulated or decanted. As stated in the compromise amendment which has been signed and to which reference has already been made, we are not talking about sides or parties, but about the Basque Parliament's pronouncement in favour of the enforcement of rights for the benefit of severely ill or incurable prisoners. The Socialist Group, when it comes to the protection and guarantee of rights, is in law enforcement, and law enforcement is the greatest and best defence exercise of a democratic State. The Spanish Constitution is binding. I am not going to repeat the articles that we all know, both the one that recognizes the right to health protection, that entrusts the public authorities with their organization and guardianship, and the one that recognizes that every person sentenced to imprisonment enjoys fundamental rights, which brings together the prohibition of inhuman and degrading punishment. On that basis, we can only share the exceptions in the execution of custodial sentences, with regard to the release of those severely ill or incurable prisoners. Those people whom we trust in the law, and in compliance with it as one of the best instruments for defending human rights and the democratic functioning itself, should never accept, on its application, arbitrary or unreasonable exceptions or decisions in this regard. Never, because that is what marks the difference of a democratic state. No one should question the humanitarian basis of these measures, and no one who knows their constitutional and legal basis. As no one should question that this requirement lies not only with the legislator, but also with the interpreter and the enforcer of the measures and the rules. The granting of these prison benefits in the performance of custodial sentences is directly linked to constitutionally recognized property and rights, which necessitates the non-dilation to the terminal stages of the disease. It is not about being looser, harder, firmer or inflexible. It is not a question of philosophy about the harshness of custodial sentences, but of finding, as the law does when these assumptions are made, that a prison sentence, if it is accumulated in the suffering of an incurable serious illness, can become an inhumane penalty, cruel at the time of its application. And the international courts, but also the national ones, both the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court, have said so. There are those who set the limits by determining that the legislation is designed for terminally ill, but a terminally ill person should not be interpreted so restrictively that he may become confused with an agonistic patient or close to death. Neither the letter, nor the spirit, nor the purpose, nor the will, nor the intention of the rules was that. Nor can we do so when interpreting or applying it. Likewise, we can say that national and international courts do not require the existence of an imminent or immediate danger of death, nor does it mean that any ailments lead to a third degree and conditional release. The interpretation required by law and by the courts is between one and the other. I insist, release is not to guarantee the health of an incurable disease, but it allows for a more humanitarian medical treatment and better conditions for its evolution and treatment of the sufferings that lead to such diseases. This is the application that the Socialists are asking for, which is nothing other than that of the spirit of these rules that our courts have confirmed. Therefore, we ask the Ministry of the Interior to reconsider its position and support this application, which I am sure it shares. Because the terminal period of life is not measured in months (neither in two, nor in six), in days or at times, it does not extend or shorten. The terminal period of life is somewhat indeterminate, at least in terms of its duration, from an ethical and medical perspective, and much more in a legal sense. Inexcusably, in our view, we must address not only the estimates of a person's survival time, but also, whatever this is, the conditions of that survival, of that existence. Even if an imminent or immediate death is not foreseeable, if the situation is extreme its spirit and purpose, that of the rules, it is to be treated and resolved with the decisions provided for by national legislation. We defend that legality, the rule of law, as the Basque Socialists have always done, because we firmly believe in it and in the whole democratic structure. We defend, then, what we did yesterday and do today and we will do tomorrow, even if sometimes in the recent past we were not allowed and persecuted to silence him. We defend that rule of law today, and with that we defend those rights that are humanitarian in nature and that recognize prisoners who are seriously ill or incurably ill. It is important, then, to stress that the new realities also now, the new time, force new policies, and we are obliged to carry them out. Policies that we're not going to invent on the other hand. They are provided for, and are in accordance with the law in force. ETA has been gone for more than five years, not expected. It is also an unarmed organization, and from it we only expect its dissolution, but it is a decision that belongs only to it, and it must be demanded of it. The Socialist Group cannot understand an interpretation and application of the legislation, moreover in this area, as if everything remained the same, as if nothing had happened, as if ETA were still in place. We cannot share it, because it was very painful for Basque society and for many of the people present here when it was. That is why I say again today, as yesterday, but today more than ever, we are in favour of demonstrating the strength of the rule of law, being impeccable and scrupulous in guaranteeing it and respecting the fundamental rights that that rule of law protects and that it is also that of persons imprisoned with serious and incurable diseases. Complying with the law, ladies and gentlemen, can never assume, ever, that it is a surrender neither a claudication nor a defeat of democracy and democratic institutions. Fulfilling the law is what makes the difference, and respecting human rights. As he often tells me – and I have heard him several times – Josu Elespe, "Defend human rights above all things; always defend human rights, Rafi, also those of those who violated them". I often say that unfairly, but we share that these decisions have to be changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Eubertarians. Mr. Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u88	Mrs. President, Chief, Congressman, good morning to all of you. All human rights, all for everyone and everywhere. This has always been our base and direction. This principle has always corrected our political initiative. And today, too, this principle determines our position. About politics in prison, it's the right attitude of the Jeltist Party. Always. Jelt Party Jultarian, it's been a long time now and again asking for a change in prison policy. We have made it in the parliament, and in the courts of Madrid, and in the different councils and councils. Our engagement is clear and well known. It's time for us to get out of the prisoners. And the state of sick prisoners must be repaired by human means. We owe respect to human law and human rights. There's the key, there's always the key. Unfortunately, we are obliged to have to speak again today about one of those issues which have been on the table in this Parliament on numerous occasions. Unfortunately, I say this because we have again found that any claims that lead to a minimal improvement in the living conditions of prisoners are rejected. So far, no progress has been made. We have seen no response from a humanitarian point of view. Today we have been able to know the suspension of the sentence for serious and incurable illness of Juan Mari Mariezkurena, a drop of water in a desert, although we would like it to be the opening of a tap that will lead us to a new, more humane prison policy. And we're not going to give up on that effort. Let's repeat and repeat. Repeat and reiterate that improving the living conditions of prisoners is possible, feasible and perfectly legal. Human rights are not divisible. Human rights are a complete commitment. Either you're with everyone, or you're not. There are no exceptions or divisions, nor are there any interested and arbitrary interpretations. Our group has always defended and upholds the same principle: all human rights for all people, everywhere. This is the way forward and this is the proposal that we reiterate today. And the right to health is a universal right, and that is reflected in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. It is therefore a right that we must also guarantee to persons deprived of their liberty, regardless of the gravity of the crimes they have committed. They must serve their sentence, yes, but it is up to us to ensure that they do so under decent conditions. It is our responsibility: a dignified and humane attention, universal for all people. We demand it for a basic principle of humanity, we demand sensitivity, we demand exemplaryness. Prisons are not a watertight compartment of human rights. Prisons do not violate people's rights, they should not violate people's rights. Humanity means justice, it means respect for human rights, it means, of course, compliance with prison legislation, but from respect for these rights. No less, no more. Prisoners have their rights, and we cannot and must never rape them. And less for reasons of opportunity, tactics or calculation. To all those who proclaim and demand law enforcement, today is a good day to remind them that the law, precisely the Prison Law, is about to be enforced. Today we are dealing with a sensitive issue, the situation of prisoners suffering from serious and incurable diseases. And we have legislation that contemplates and enables his release. This provision, as mentioned by previous spokespersons, is reflected in both the Penal Code and the Prison Rules. It's law. Let us therefore apply the law. But it is also that Basque society has been a long time, too much I would say, calling for a change in prison policy, a change based on a constitutional principle: the reintegration and resocialization of prisoners. The Basque Government is also working in the same direction. It has presented specific programmes, policies and proposals that promote the approximation and search for humanitarian and legal solutions to the situation of sick prisoners. The Hitzeman or Zuzen Bidean programmes are applicable in many measures without any modification of prison legislation. It is possible, therefore, it is feasible and legal. These programmes respond to a firm commitment, are known, have been repeatedly exposed, both to the Spanish Government, first hand, and also to ETA prisoners recently, in the letters that both the lehendakari and the president of the Euzkadi Buru Batzar, Andoni Ortuzar, have sent. The modification of the current prison policy is possible; the end of exceptional measures is possible, reasonable and necessary. It is convenient, because we are also building future coexistence. Today we bring more reasons, because we have agreed and advocate a common text that sets out a commitment to human rights, to all rights, starting with the most elementary one, which is the right to life. And also with all the human rights that assist prisoners, human people with human rights. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u89	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Passing over to a group that has no corrections, Mrs. Llanos, representing the Basque Potion Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. First of all, I will refer to the proposal not for an original law, and later, in the reply, I will refer to the amendment. Yesterday, in committee, we talked about ETA prisoners. In this House today we do it again. It's not the first time either in this legislature; we did it nothing, talking about prison policy. Nor is it new in this House; we have done so on other occasions, talking about sick prisoners. And I'm going to start the same way that I started the last time we dealt with this issue, saying that EH Bildu is interested in putting us in the ceremony of confusion, even though I again criticize myself for using this term. It manipulates, distorts and intentionally distorts the truth, and some fall into that manipulation and falsehood. On the initiative – and here he has said this – he talks about Basque prisoners, when you're not really talking about Basque prisoners, you're talking about ETA prisoners. He talks about prisoners' diseases, but, as I told him, they falsify and manipulate, because they hide treatments, hide that there are interventions, hide the attention they receive. It refers to the initiative, and here too some have wanted to question the recognition of the right to health of any prisoner. That right is not in doubt, that no one questions, that the rule of law in no case questions. Because our legislation recognizes the right to health of prisoners, and prison regulations provide health benefits for inmates. It is not true that there are blockades. That's a falsehood, Mr. Arzuaga. Specifically... because we are talking about legislation here, but no one mentions our legislation, which to some seems to us to be in a banana state, right? Article 3 of the General Prison Act stipulates that prison activity shall be carried out in all cases in accordance with the human personality of prisoners and their legal rights and interests, and the Prison Administration shall be responsible for ensuring the life, integrity and health of inmates. In order to fulfil this legislative mandate, persons admitted to a prison are provided with comprehensive health care, including measures to prevent, cure and rehabilitate inmates, equivalent to that provided to the population as a whole. It has its own resources and professionals (the Prison Administration), and when this care is not possible it has access to the specialized care provided by the National Health System. Prisoners, all prisoners, all Basque prisoners, all prisoners for ETA terrorism, who are interested in you, Mr Arzuaga, have all ensured your right to health through the means provided by prison health, and are subject to appropriate medical checks. As I say, everyone. All-two. On the basis of those medical checks to which I referred, if it is assessed that their development requires the initiation of a procedure for early release, that procedure is initiated and decided by the judicial authority. Because it manipulates and distorts reality also in this matter, when it speaks of release but does not speak of the requirements required for such release. Because prison legislation requires compliance with certain requirements for such sick release, which everyone has to comply with. This legislation provides that, for reasons of dignity and humanity – yes, provided for in our legislation and with what this group agrees –, for reasons of dignity and humanity, those who suffer from a very serious illness, with incurable suffering, may be granted the suspension of the sentence and access to conditional release in advance. And the law is precise about it, and it distinguishes two assumptions, two clearly differentiated assumptions. One, the third paragraph of article 91 of the Criminal Code, which also eliminates certain requirements that were previously required, and where there is a clear danger to the life of the prisoner, assessed by the medical services that care for him and forensic doctors, in this case the prison supervisory judge may grant release without any requirement other than to ask the prison for a prognosis of danger. All this applies medical criteria and in application of the provisions – as has been said here – by Article 104.4 of the Prison Rules. There is no need to ask for the application of this article: it already applies. The other case (because, as I have said, there are two cases), the other case is that provided for in the first and second paragraphs of article 91 of the Criminal Code: when there is a serious illness but there is no obvious danger to life, in this case for early release it is necessary to have served three quarters of the sentence. Two-thirds, or half the sentence. To this end, the sentenced person must be classified and progressed to the third degree and good conduct has been observed. For those convicted of terrorist offences or criminal organization, they must have served half of the sentence, satisfied or committed to fulfilling the civil responsibility imposed, renounced and abandoned terrorist purposes and means, apologized to the victims, and collaborated with the authorities. Therefore, having fulfilled the requirements, the decision on the progression of the degree and the subsequent granting of parole for sick prisoners is made, as he said, under strict medical criteria according to their final prognosis, on which Prison Institutions, and ultimately the prison supervisory judge, who has the final decision, make their decisions. The Minister of the Interior, when questioned by Mrs Beitialarrangoitia in the Congress of Deputies, pointed out that there is currently no prisoner in Spain who meets the requirements to be released, and when they meet they have been released, as has been well said here. He noted that in none of the cases has this degree of illness been detected that appears to have enough entity to implement the mechanism of anticipation of freedom. Because ETA prisoners must also comply with the regulations, ladies and gentlemen, they must meet the requirements that the law requires to be released. Because you ask for humanitarian treatment, and that humanitarian treatment is not given. But you are not asking for humanitarian treatment: you are asking for privileged treatment. They are calling for certain requirements not to be met for members of the ETA terrorist gang. They seek release without meeting the requirements of the law for such release. In relation to Instruction 3/2017, it should be noted that what is intended is to regulate and clarify discharges by disease, to achieve a homogeneous management in administrative processes. It intends to adapt the prison procedure to the provisions of the new article 91 of the Criminal Code, providing clear guidance to the health services on how to proceed. As I say, its purpose is a homogeneous application. These instructions are subject to the normative hierarchy, and it is therefore not true, as some have said, that they are contrary to the prison regulations, because if they were, they could not be in force. In addition, they do not bind judges and courts, which are in charge of deciding on this type of release, and the Prison Administration is not entitled to challenge any of the decisions of the prison supervisory courts. But, as I said to you, Mr Arzuaga, you intend to deny everything I have told you, because your aim is always to victimize a certain group of prisoners before a State that keeps them unjustly imprisoned; before a State that you, as I say, have portrayed here practically as a state of banana law, in which the rights of people, human rights, are not respected. Everything related to prisoners you manipulate, because, as I say, you want to show them as victims of a system, of a State that oppresses and does not respect their rights. We would therefore like to reiterate once again that in our country, in our rule of law, in prison law, the humanitarian principle applies to any other circumstance. Because it seems here that all groups have questioned that our prison legislation governs the humanitarian principle, and that is not the case. And it is not legislation that has invented or instituted the People's Party government that does anything. Our prison legislation is in force throughout the democratic period, and respects the humanitarian principle under any circumstances. It has shown magnanimity and generosity to those who have committed absolutely reprehensible crimes, and our legislation puts the integrity and dignity of the person, the principle of humanity, before any other kind of variable. And we all remember very specific cases, in which the rule of law, in relation to sick prisoners, despite very controversial decisions, despite very painful decisions too, has strictly applied the legal parameters. Therefore, we cannot afford to question, ladies and gentlemen, the guarantees offered by our democracy. And above all – and I am finishing, Madam President – on human rights, Mr Arzuaga, not even half a lesson from you. Of you, ladies and gentlemen of Bildu, nor half a lesson, of whom to this day still does not condemn the certainly nothing humanitarian treatment that ETA inflicted on its victims and on all Basque society. And the prison situation does not depend – and I have told you here – on the government; it depends on the prisoners of ETA. It's up to ETA prisoners. Look inside, put the ball on the corresponding roof, assume your responsibility. You condemn the unhumanitarian treatment that ETA inflicted, and then you can give lessons to others. Until then, none.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u91	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing on the day of the answers, representative of the EH Collectors. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u92	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. You, Mrs Llanos, tell us that you are perfectly treated, all prisoners are perfectly assisted. Right now on the bench, in memory, we did a small exercise in remembering those Basque prisoners who have seen death in prison, the result of the lack of assistance and the lack of treatment: Joseba Asensio, Santiago Díez, Katxo Aranzamendi, Gorostiaga, Arkaitz Bellón..., the last one a few years ago, who at this very place explained what case we were dealing with. You tell me I'm manipulating and twisting. I do not think he has the ability to manipulate and distort an agreement that we have reached with four groups, the overwhelming majority of which are in this room, and also with a text in which we are reflected. True, each of the groups can make their own assessments around this text, but a text in which we really feel reflected. And I also do not understand what problem the PP has, of these four points, in terms of legality, in terms of human dignity, in terms of law, in agreeing, in being able to support at least one of these four points. Some more intense, some with a greater demand, but others with less, more lax, that I believe could be approved by your party, if at least – and I think that is the question – I had the will to do so. He's talking about conditions for release. It gives me a lesson, yes, a lesson from what the law says, but what happens is that precisely what happens is that the interpretation of this law is the bad thing. His Interior Minister perverts this regulation, and I remind him of what the Interior Minister also said. In order to have access to liberty, a prisoner must have a reasoned and certified report by medical professionals, in no case obeying subjective criteria, what happens is that immediately the minister comes and introduces the subjective criterion, which is the certainty of death within a period of less than two months. The medical report is reasoned, it's objective, but the limit is two months. And isn't this absolutely subjective? Why two months? Why not four? Why not six? Why not two years? Why not two weeks? Its intention is precisely that, to stand with the prisoner, to develop a vengeful attitude. Is it not absolutely irrational, is it not absolutely arbitrary to set these two months of deadline? Perhaps Mr. Uria may have more luck in explaining whether that's what the doctors are for, whether that's what the doctors are for; whether a doctor can set such an exact two-month term for a person. They do not, moreover, if they can have a rebellious attitude precisely with Penitentiary Institutions, because they are asking them to do something that they are humanly incapable of doing, and much more professionally incapable of doing. But it is something else that happens, that her spokesman in the Human Rights Commission, Mrs Bengoechea, surrendered to the evidence and she herself said that the Minister could have kept quiet. Her minister, as she said, could have kept quiet at the time of establishing such a term – I say again – absolutely irrational, absolutely arbitrary. Two precisely variables of arbitrariness: first, prison neglect, second, dispersion policy. A deadly cocktail: separation of the prisoner's environment, separation of the health environment as well. I believe that it is very important that any prisoner in these three provinces be given equal treatment. But what good is this competition for the dispersed prisoners? How can they benefit from it, if they are precisely in prisons in which they do not have this competence, in which prisoners are treated in an absolutely more harmful way than any other person from the point of view of the principle of equality? Ibon Iparragire has had the opportunity to be diagnosed in the Basque Health Service. He was here, and he could have been evaluated in Osakidetza. However, someone made a decision to take him back to Alcala immediately, without being able to receive a test at Osakidetza. Do you want to ask me why? I believe that you are in a loneliness that is scandalous, and you have great responsibilities, but you do not want to move, you do not want to move forward. The rest of us have decided to move, we have decided to move forward. I really want to appreciate the tone used by the EAJ, PSE, together by the Podemos teams, the position they've had and the attitude they've had in order to test this text of theirs with their colors. And today, I think, I think that sick prisoners have received a message and have been given to them from this parliament of hope. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u93	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Together the representative of the Podemos team, Mr. Uria, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u94	Bakartxo Tejeria andrea, compañeros and compañeras. Gesto pour la Paz in 1996 made the following pronouncement: "The Prison Rules provide for the release of prisoners who are in a situation of suffering and serious illness. We understand that the application of this article with broad interpretative criteria, based on generosity and humanitarian principles, is a demand widely supported by much of this society, both political and social. A unification of criteria would be desirable for the future, leading to a standardized and direct application of this measure by the prison supervisory courts." Gesture for Peace, 1996. What's going on? What's the play? A few years ago I had an ETA prisoner who had been in prison for twenty-six years, I had him as a patient. Fito, from the Old Helmet: severe hepatopathy, severe bilateral nephropathy, severe heart disease. I said, "Fito, you're gonna last two months, kid." Because people get really crushed out of jail! Twenty-six years, twenty-four years, twenty-seven years, nineteen years, it's gone. And we made friends: "Take these pills. Well, no. Well, he works. Well, no. You're taking the low. Well, don't take the low..." He was trying to normalize, he had his pots in the Old Helmet... He was sad, he was getting worse, and he died after a few months. He didn't die in jail. How many prisoners die out of jail after twenty years, which aren't in the stats, right? There are still some people who say, "It's a long time." Like our Home Secretary! Two months, three months... which doctor will certify that? Has the Ministry of the Interior spoken to the Palliative Care Society, the Prison Health Society? Have you spoken? Do you know your papers? Have you entered the website? What are we doctors? We will not collaborate, neither the associations in which we participate, nor the medical prison health groups, nor the medical groups of scientific palliative care societies, will not participate in paripes. Therefore, the Minister of the Interior has to reflect on why in February 2017 he takes out this circular and uses artificial words as "patent state of irreversibility and death". Why? Because it has criteria of political opportunism, electoral, because it has criteria of revenge, and because it does not comply with the law, the international law and the law of the Spanish State. And because he doesn't know what it's like to work with humanitarian criteria, he doesn't know what it's like to work with scientific-technical criteria to certify, evaluate, believe and give continuous treatment to chronic patients to prevent complications. You don't know, and your advisors do it wrong. Elkarrekin We can believe that the agreement we have reached – which we appreciate, and we are delighted – is and can be a historic element in the Basque Parliament. I know it has been discussed many times, I know that militant groups are often on the subject. It can be very interesting in the context of the transfer of prisons, in the context of the political moment of change that we are now. I think it is very important that we give the importance – worth redundancy – due to this political agreement, which has to do with the culture of civil rights, with the culture of human rights, and this prestige to this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u95	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Basque Socialist doesn't have to speak. Eubertarians mustn't speak. Basque Popular Group: Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u96	Thank you again, Madam President. Mr Arzuaga and Mr Uria said that this group was left alone. Well, look, if we have to stay alone saying, defending that Spain is a state of law in which laws are enforced, that it is not a banana state, that it is not a state in which revenge is ruled, but a state whose criminal law is inspired by justice (in justice)... And in a criminal law based on justice, as in other criminal rights (if one looks at the comparative law of France, of England...), the penalties must be met. Terrorists serve their sentences in prisons. That prison is bad? Of course. But, for justice, a person who commits a crime must serve the sentence imposed by law on him by the commission of that crime. That's not a vengeful criminal law. That's a fair criminal right. That then there is a humanitarian principle that says that under certain conditions, when there are diseases, they have to be attended to, because the principle of humanity..., and all prisoners have the right to health, because they are incarcerated does not mean that they do not enjoy rights? Of course. And that rules in Spain, that rules in our rule of law. And that is the most serious thing, the most serious mistake that I think some have made: to put the rule of law in doubt and in sulfide. And the truth is that of some, then, one is expected more than others, but, Mrs Romero, I really tell you, the Socialist Party of Euskadi... Look, if it weren't for dealing with such a serious issue, it would be to reiterate here the expression that Mr. Egibar used: "Good boy!". But since it's such a serious issue, I'm not going to use it. (Berbotsa) Because really, really...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u97	Silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u98	... I deeply regret that you here today have joined that image that our rule of law is not a guarantee State. Because that is what has remained on the table, and that is what flows in this compromise amendment. Because they demand that the Spanish Government comply with a regulation, which is already doing so. And there are some requirements that I regret that you do not share – and I have it here – you do not share with your representative in the Congress of Deputies when it came to this issue, which clearly stated that article 98 of the Criminal Code requires, for release, that if it is terrorist organizations, any of them, there must be disengagement from the terrorist organization, abandonment of violence and a request for forgiveness of the victims. Those are the requirements. And you here today are going to sign off on those requirements. Obviate those requirements. It urges compliance with legislation as if it were not being complied with! Because in the circular, so well-known, when you don't see that obvious risk to life, but you don't agree, there's a possibility of revision. That's what the circular says. And I am certainly very calm with the Interior Minister being from the People's Party and not from Bildu or Podemos. Of course quite quiet, because of laws you know a lot more than you do. I get it from some of them. Really, I'm sorry... We do not mind being alone in defending the rule of law, in defending the quality of our rule of law, Mrs Romero. Because you, the Basque Socialist Party, really, I think you have a Stockholm syndrome. That they are already abducted and have taken up the nationalist discourse, as we have said on some occasion here – and in that very clear pact we see – is worrying, but that they assume on a subject like this, of the quality of the rule of law, of the quality of our prison legislation, of whether or not there is the humanitarian principle in our laws, which assume that speech of Bildu, is no longer worrying, it is to make him look at it. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u99	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Now that the debate is over, we'll vote EH, Euskal Socialists, and together we'll have the middle-class correction signed by the Podemos and the Eubertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 70; the votes given, 73; supporters 64; the opponents are 9; white, 0; abstentions 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u100	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. I interrupt the entire meeting till about four-fifteen. It was two and thirteen in the afternoon. At three o'clock in the afternoon the meeting began again at forty-eight.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u101	Good afternoon, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting again. The seventh point on the theme list: "Motion, introduced by the parliamentary members of the Casanova Alonso ARRG, about the housing of the tourist and the lodgings in the particular rooms of the tourist apartment. Discipline and final resolution. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u102	A variant of Murphy's law says that the heavyest speaker always talks after lunch, and I have the honor today. And besides, I've got another bad news for you, and the point is that it's not going to be very hot, because it's a complete deal, so forget to help me wake up a little bit by an electric discussion. However, if the news is bad for us, we may get bored a little, but it is certainly good news for the people, and we are here. Today we are going to talk about regulating the tourists' homes, and the subject is important, especially in several places of our country, in several cities. This discussion has surpassed the frame and society of political space. As I was saying, especially in several points. Because it's an important subject, because it's related to tourism, because it's connected to city-making and housing, and all these things, big words, are things that have to be written in serious letters. This motion, as I have said, was concluded by an interpelation. It's true, and you have to believe me, when we introduced it, that we didn't know if a motive would come or not, and it's true, as we all do, you've sometimes decided, because you think there won't be any agreement, or the explanations are not enough. In this case, we came here a few weeks ago to ask the government what their plans were about the tourist housing. And it's true and we have to say that we didn't like what we heard. We made inquiries, and what we heard did not reassure us. So we decided to introduce the motion. The rules and the proceedings which have arisen about this motive, and which have finally led us to a middle course, are, indeed, a relief to us. And besides, we have learned from the government that there was nobility in the making of a page of repair, at least once, or as far as possible, in order to share it. And that is, after all, what the middle-class supposeth: A plan to solve the problem of the tourist housing clandestines. In our motion, in our original motion, we insisted on the need of making a census, and then after that census, by information, to bring through the door of the legal law every one who is making a clandestine offer. Information of various ways, and even of other ways, which the law foresees; The fines, the punishments, and so on. At first we were very focused in this sense, but, as I have said, there have been corrections, and we must humbly say that the middle way we test is better than the original motion, richer and more satisfactory, and therefore, this bargain of ours. As we said in the interpelation, and as we say every time this thing has gone out, we're not against the tourist housing. The tourist market needs this modality. We're against the illegal tourists' homes. We're against the clandestine offer. Tourry housing offers new options in the area of tourism, but also threats. And what we want is to optimize positive possibilities and neutralize threats as far as possible. It's important that we make the deal today. First, by an inquiry, we shall have a X-dimensional radius of the problem. Or if the Xingerical not the exacter, at least the best approach we can make. So we'll know the dimensions of this phenomenon, especially the clandestine housing, and we'll know where they are. Thanks to that, we can find out where there's a problem about this subject and where there's a possibility. The clandestine offer supposes a great deal of damage: On the one hand, it is connected with the prosecutor's fraud, because an activity developed in clandestineity isn't paying taxes, and of course that's unacceptable. From the point of view of urbanization, he supposes an obstacle to organized city planning, because a reality which is not really known or is not public is hidden. And so in doing this schedule, all elements are unknown. There may also arise trouble for a neighbor, who can endure obstacles and embarrassments in his everyday life. So we have to review the clandestine offer of the tourist housing as far as possible. There is another uncorrectable advantage if we carry this page forward. It is true that during the past few years there has been some sort of boom or appearance in the tourist housing, there are many people who have decided to put a house in the market looking at tourists. And it is true, that is legal, but all the parameters established by the law can be only profitable in some cases. And it is true now that several of the dwellings in the clandestine tourist offer, which were empty, and which are now dedicated to the economic economy of income, if they do not look at tourism with the conditions imposed upon by the law, they may perhaps turn away to the normal rent and offer to live, so they can help to ease a social problem. So for many reasons, it's essential to solve the business of the tourist clans. And as I was saying at first, happily, we have agreed to-day with all of us to begin this work of sufficient means. I shall conclude, however short it may be, that the key of this agreement, as has been said, being agreed, and not in the design of provoking any one, I think it is necessary to do this, and to know them all, and to know what is now agreed upon. First of all, we're asking you to go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. Secondly, we demand the inquiry I have spoken of. An investigation and no census. There can be difficulties in detecting all the addresses, but not where the offer is, where it is situated and how many units are dedicated. After all, this activity, even if we look at it as a clandestine, is paradoxically done with publicity, and it is easy to know that the offer exists. So, thanks to this research, we'll have radiographs for all the tourists' housing. On the one hand, if they're legal, they're registered, and it's because the fun is data, and, on the other hand, we'll know the people in the clans because they're publicized, and it's not so difficult to make a census or investigation of them. We also ask that a campaign of information should be made, and we believe that, for the first time, many people have not registered their tourist housing because of ignorance, and we believe that the first word must always be an invitation, an informative, right, and want of warning people, and we must give them a chance to regularize themselves by an activity which has the frame of regularize itself. We ask you to regulate the decrees arranged in the Tourism Law as soon as possible, and in this case we must develop the decrees of the tourist housing and of the bedrooms as soon as possible. We're asking him to go with the coworker's sector and turn down the clandestine housing. And again I insist that these measures are not opposed to the tourist houses, but only to those who are out of law. And for this purpose, those who do this activity in legality may be allies, and if all society suffers the damages of the clandestine offer, they are interested in it, especially because they suffer the infidelity of competition. And if there has been a frame to do this activity within reality, and therefore they must be allies in this battle. We ask the Government to use the tools which it has to enforce the execution of the law, and, as I have mentioned before, there is information, but if at last there is an illegal activity, the moment will come to take the measures of another kind. And finally, in order to cooperate with the Ogages as far as possible, and as legal as it is, to exchange information and to bring this common purpose to us all. We think the agreement is very good, as I said before, better than the original motion. All the groups have had the imagination to place on the table a good suggestion, and the suppleness to make an agreement between them all. And so I think it's gonna be good for everyone. Today tourism, as we were reminded yesterday, I believe, through a press appearance in the council to report on a report, tourism is not perceived as a threat by the majority of society, nor is it aware that there is an excess of tourism in this country. And that's basically because it doesn't exist. But there are areas where a germ of problem is beginning to be generated, as we talked about in the interpellation, where we are reaching near the saturation point. We have to keep the tourist model in the parameters that can lead to success, which are that of a quality offer, differentiated, with personality... That is in the antipodes of illegality, of clandestine supply, of massification, and therefore we understand that this regulation to which we are going to give an impetus today, and this advance towards a supply of regulated tourist homes and within the legality, will also be an element that will contribute to improving a tourism offer of its own and differentiated, sustainable and with its own personality. As I said, tourism is not a problem throughout the country, it is a complementary and rising economic activity, but there may be areas where special attention should be paid not to it becoming a problem. The path we set out today or the path we follow will be helpful for that. I must conclude with a little review, and it is certain that the agreement is to be enjoyed this evening, but it is true that last year, when the Tourism Act was tried, all the agents who came through it said, more or less, two things: the law must be made quickly and also done to keep a tool looking at the next year to neutralize the agalal offer of the tourist houses. Unfortunately, we've lost our first year, but if what we've agreed today is done, we can stay in a situation next year, where the tourist campaign is going to go without illegal housing. So be it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u103	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Passing over to the teams that've been running the corrections. Persistent group: Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u104	Yeah, good afternoon. Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, counselors. Mr Casanova, you said in the interpellation that the Tourism Act gives legal instruments to respond to the reality of tourist homes; legal instruments to prevent the massification of tourism; legal instruments to prevent illegal supply, to prevent taxes from being paid in the development of an economic activity; legal instruments to give municipalities tools to correct the possible harmful effects of this type of activity; legal instruments to prevent the indiscriminate proliferation of this type of housing. That's nothing, Mr. Casanova! All this you say you had the law? What law did you pass, Mr. Casanova? None of this is in the law! None of that. That is why you are asking for the instruments to be made. None of that was in the law, and that is why some of us do not vote in favour of that law. Mr. Casanova, I'm sorry. As I said, those instruments are not in the law, and it is therefore up to this Government to develop those legal instruments. And I wish I could get the right keys. Because there are already regulatory experiences in this area around the world: in Spain, in Europe, in the United States, in Asian countries..., around the world they are trying to regulate, and you know it's not easy. Because, as you say, if we had in the law those legal instruments would be applied. But since they are not, then, they must be developed. And it is also that, I would say, one of the main problems facing these new forms of holiday accommodation is the legal framework in some of the figures already existing in our legal system. Traditional regulation clashes with the wide range of possibilities envisaged in this activity, and that is why it is so complicated. And see that there are samples and examples of many autonomous communities in our environment where they introduced regulation, and today they are modifying it because it's really not easy. The law says that you have to regulate tourist homes, and here there are two important administrations. On the one hand the Autonomous Community, which has to make the decrees, but on the other hand the municipalities, with their ordinances and other issues that affect them cross-cutting but have to collaborate. Therefore, first, you did not agree on inter-institutional coordination, which is basic for the development of this Law. The legal instruments were not agreed upon. He didn't remember. Therefore, today we are actually here for that, to solve those issues that were left in the air at the passing of eleven months ago of this Law. And what should be the role of regulation, in our view? To give a solution to an economic activity that meets all the requirements, like another economic activity, but it must also do something else: it must maintain balance and try to ensure that urban centres do not see the rental housing market altered; that the usual number of households in each environment is maintained, that this does not change. That's not easy either. Town halls want to keep that balance, and that's not easy. Therefore, there is an important job, and that, of course, I do not think it is a matter of urgency and urgency. I believe that elements of cooperation between administrations are very important, and to see what experiences have not worked. Because there are experiences that have not produced results; therefore, we will not have to fall into those mistakes, and see those that are actually producing results. Mr Casanova said, directly to the councillor, that he had to already have a diagnosis of the reality in the Basque Country about the offer of tourist, legal and clandestine housing. He's got a problem. I don't share... I don't understand you, when you talk about underground, what you talk about. But I'll tell you later. And, Mr Casanova, who was saying this report, I would have liked to have had this diagnosis prior to the processing of the Tourism Law, and to have been able to focus this project from a better knowledge, and to have incorporated legal instruments of immediate application with the law (of course!), for having been effective. But you didn't want to. And he had a very important key, and he wouldn't. So, what's he complaining about? Do you have a bad conscience, having passed that law really without tools? I think a little of that does. And then I'd tell the counselor he's late. Well, listen, that's what you're responsible for, nobody's more responsible than you in this House. So, I think we have to work a lot. You asked for a census of clandestine housing. I used to tell him about the underground thing. I understand it's different irregular than clandestine. Clandestine is the one we don't know, the one we don't detect, the one we don't know, the one we don't see. Then there are the irregulars, which are the ones that come out, and there are indeed data on dwellings that come out. I have tracked all the autonomous communities: they have data on dwellings that flourish; of clandestine dwellings I have not seen a single data. Because clandestine is what is not known, I understand! This may have a different meaning, but it's just... And you repeat the clandestine thing. But how are we going to make a record, a report of clandestine housing! The moment we detect it, it stops being clandestine! It will be irregular, and it will have to be invited and given a time limit for its regularization. Okay, fine. Really, if you can clear me up later on about clandestine, I'd appreciate it. I believe that many important aspects of direct implementation could have been deepened in the handling of the bill, and I believe that both the Socialist Group and we insist on that. But the truth is, we didn't get any cases. They were in a lot of haste, a lot of urgency, and, as they say in my town, emergencies are not good counselors. We have tabled an amendment that we could have tabled with more points, because, look, there are many things that can be done in this area. And I've been seeing what they're doing in other places; how they encourage the owners of these homes in some places to incorporate themselves into regularizing their situation. In the end, Mr Casanova, I believe that the Tourism Act would have been substantially improved, in its processing, with normal, orderly processing; that it would have primacy over the criteria on emergencies, that it would have primacy over the interest of the industrial sector over other aspects that we do not reach, and that now, in some way, it is up to us to remedy it, to this government that did not participate in the processing, to fix it, that among all of us with good will we will somehow be able to regularize this situation, which, in fact, is very important. It is a movement, an economic activity that is all over the world, that is here and that has come to stay, that we have to try to make it orderly. And it will also be necessary to incorporate into the platforms, all those in that environment, that they collaborate that this is a regulated economic activity, that they give us a part of the service of the tourism sector and that we see it as a normality, not as something that attacks us, as is now being seen. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u106	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Of the motion put forward by Bildu, as well as of the discussions we have had and of the explanations given by the proponent of the initiative, I think I am not mistaken if we conclude that it is a common interest to implement the Euskadi Tourism Act, which we approved last year, in a rigorous and effective manner. And from there arises the disquisition of how it is more efficient to achieve the goal, between who has the responsibility of management, in this case counseling, and who we have the responsibility to drive government action. And on this occasion I think we can congratulate ourselves, because we have been able to reach an agreement, because I believe that this agreement is also reasonable for all parties. The Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumers shares with the proponent of the initiative the objective of controlling the phenomenon of tourist homes, not only to enforce the law, but also to prevent it from generating problems in the urban and tourist use of our cities, discomforts to neighbors, or even diminishes in what is tourist quality. The phenomenon of tourist homes has developed in a very short time, very short, and we share it with many other tourist destinations, although in smaller size. And from the forecasts of the Tourism Act it is necessary to address the issue of tourist homes and rooms in order to ensure the development of tourism and also sustainable urban development; to ensure quality, a standard of quality; and to eradicate illegal supply from an approach of comprehensive and also effective tourism policy management, which is what it is all about. The motion put forward by Bildu could not be supported in principle as it was, because it proposed a census of the clandestine supply of tourist homes and rooms within two months. And this question was manifested, in addition to being ineffective, as a fact that was practically impossible to fulfil. That is why we particularly value the fact that we have been able to agree, in order to satisfy the concern of the proposer, to carry out a study to establish an adjusted estimate of the clandestine supply of dwellings and rooms for tourist use, as well as their zoning, within three months. The amendment that we have managed to agree with a broad consensus among the political groups envisages that the main thing, which is an action plan, I think. A plan of action in which the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs has already been working and which is also determined by a series of guidelines that I believe are essential and fundamental to achieving a good end. First, we proposed to agree with the municipalities on the measures necessary for the management of the register of enterprises and tourist activities, respecting the municipal competences in the definition of land uses and managing with Eudel the awareness of the municipalities on the importance of having a specific ordinance regulating the implementation of this type of accommodation. The subject of the registration, prior to the declaration responsible for the activity, is the nuclear issue of this whole issue, the nuclear issue also of the law with regard to dwellings and rooms for tourist use. And, given the importance of the registration of tourism businesses, what is evident is the much-needed information campaign that informs the natural or legal persons holding such accommodation to what the law requires, the obligation to discharge themselves in that registration, and where to process the responsible declaration, thus avoiding that the argument of ignorance or ignorance may be a channel for those who claim or may have the intention of making law fraud. It is also urged that citizens should know that they can exercise their right to complain to the Basque Tourist Authority if they consider it necessary when they have been aware of the existence of such an offer of clandestine accommodation. And we also propose to elaborate with diligence and urgency the regulatory decrees for houses and rooms for tourist use, which will most likely be completed this same year. And I think that's an element, a key piece of that whole thing. We must bear in mind that up to May this year there were 1,563 registered dwellings in Euskadi, and that in three months their number had increased by 560 units, an increase of more than 50% over the previous six months, to the previous six months. And of that number of dwellings, of 1,563 throughout Euskadi, 826 were in San Sebastián. However, given the clear need, the imperative need to have a clean and realistic record of activities, it is also necessary to take into account the case of illegal or clandestine supply, which is more than difficult to put into a census. Because the supply of housing that is advertised either does not correspond to the number of dwellings, or those advertisements are duplicated, or the owner of the dwelling is not known, or even the address of the dwellings is not known. In short, the registration of tourism businesses continues to accumulate high month by month, and in addition, the accommodation offer is concentrated on some points, in some very specific areas, although, it is true, there is also a clandestine offer. It is therefore not possible to speak of a phenomenon of widespread secrecy in the Basque Country, although this does not mean that this issue should not be addressed and deleted as soon as possible. That is why it is important to urge the Basque Government to establish agreements with the associations and marketing platforms in this sector to manage this form of accommodation in an orderly manner, in order to eliminate the unregistered offer, something which will undoubtedly also help the estimated study of this clandestine offer. Other of the actions that will be decisive, we understand the Basque Socialists, will be the collaboration with the farms outside, because by sharing the information with these kinds of institutions, with the farms, the holders that consist in the register will seek tax revenues that will also benefit the citizens, and on the other hand the detection of the illegal offer or so-called clandestine one is facilitated. We believe that these measures, these actions, some of them that are already under way (it is already being carried out by the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption), must result in a good, correct regulation of the accommodation exercise through the houses and rooms of tourist use, as an activity that fits the needs of the sector and in perfect harmony with the municipal ordinances, so that this activity is carried out with total transparency and for the benefit of a sustainable development of tourism in our towns and cities. They said some of the spokesmen who preceded me that we had lost a year since the passing of the law because we had not made the regulatory development. I don't think so. I don't think so. Regulatory development is under way from the outset on this issue. As I say, in this year 2017 we will surely have, in all probability, the decrees ready and approved. I therefore believe that this problem, which seems to be doing nothing, is not true. Therefore, I take care here to deny it, especially because it is public and notorious that since the council has been dealing with the municipalities, with Eudel himself, in the work of that coordination of municipal ordinances, which are ultimately the ones that have promoted that this record is not entirely true, does not reflect what reality is. Because one thing is when an activity is transferred to the register and another thing is that in a municipality, for example, the fact of having a dwelling on a second floor goes against that municipal ordinance, and therefore we are before a register, let's say, that does not really contemplate which dwellings, in compliance with the law, must be perfectly registered. I conclude by appreciating positively, as it could not otherwise be, the agreement, the very broad agreement that we have achieved thanks to the contributions made also by the amending groups, and I must also thank the proposer of the initiative for his willingness to reach an agreement. And finally, in case it serves – because of the issue of not flirting with us sometimes in somewhat sterile polemics – but clandestine... And for that it usually comes well internet, because it clears many doubts: "Clandestine, which is carried out without the requirements required by a legislative provision". Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians. Mr. Uribe Househouse, your word is yours. URIBE-ETCHEBAR. APALAGED: Yes, thank you, ma'am. Good afternoon to all of you departmental chiefs. For my part, though I do not repeat it, I would like to give you two great ideas of this afternoon and of this subject. On the one hand, you know, "Munch" is putting all her will and means in order to fill up the ends that the Tourism law imposes. We're not only sure of it, it's not a conviction, it's just seeing it. Some things are already visible, and the chief physician pointed out them and explained them 15 days ago, and others will come and be recognized. So he's working properly. And then another great idea in front of a whole new phenomenon. Madame Lopez de Ocarariz, you have described it well, with a new phenomenon and a very special character, and there is no one in the world who has entirely grasped this problem. So it won't be that easy. I'm sure he's got his own means and he's going to use it, including the ones he's working for, of course, with the organizations. Like so many others and so many other matters. But if he has the means, he will develop decrees, and, as far as he can, I believe that we must speak sincerely, as far as we can, in this matter. I remember how the performances have changed, when, in order to notice it, it was only 30, 40 years ago, Donostiania, a work of the Town Hall's Centro de Atracción y Turismon for renting apartments in the summer: If you had a free apartment, you would go to the CAT Centro de Atracción y Turismi's office and put your ad there. Well, what happened? At that time, we didn't define them as economy. At the present day, and on the new technology, on account of the internet, these economic productions have been exponentially multiplied, and consequently the economy has arisen, as has been defined, a new digital economy. And it is a revolution that embraces new technologies, and as you rightly said, Mrs López de Ocariz, it is a reality that has come to stay. It's a result of digitization. And they have emerged so quickly, and they continue to develop so quickly, that we have found ourselves without regulation in different areas – and depending on different institutions, by the way – that it meets minimally all the demands and all the parties involved. And already at the municipal level we have instruments and planning in particular from five years ago and that have been completely out of date, because the situation is not the same, always in relation to this matter. It is even exceeding the capacity of administrations to ensure what it has to ensure, which is the general interns. But not only the Basque Government, or the City of Donostia, or such a parliament: go to the European Union itself and look at what texts you are adopting, what ideas you are pointing out. The last, the resolution of 15 June of the European Parliament. If you haven't read it, read it, because I think it's very interesting. All this needs regulation, that we have it clear. Because, beyond the collaborative economy, as it has been tried to define this type of activity, which I believe not, in that dialectical trade versus collaboration, all this of the tourist flats could be defined rather as an economy on demand or an economy of access. That is to say, it goes far beyond more or less punctual collaboration between individuals who are not for profit. The European Parliament, in its resolution, which seeks to discern the different activities, defines the collaborative economy as a collaborative economy with a social purpose. Well, this is obviously a completely different thing, to the extent that there is a professionalisation and to the extent that there is a profit. So, I think it changes the thing. This digital economy that we have on top, and that is actually going to continue and continue to develop, poses new paradigms. Where there used to be a factory or a workshop, there is now a platform. Where there were workers before, there are now producer users. Where there were bosses before, there are now algorithms and user reputation mechanisms. And where there were wages before, there are now fluctuating incomes. Well, I'm convinced that in the future everything that can become a platform will become a platform. I think it's an unstoppable process. But that does not remove the need, as the European Parliament itself says, and as I believe it is the will of all of us, including of course the Basque Government, to put order in the possible abuses that this new type of digital economy or digital economy causes and that escapes a whole series of rules of economic management, such as labour standards, tax compliance and consumer protection. Because history has shown us – and since the PNV we are very clear – on more than one occasion that markets work well if they are regulated. Unregulated or unregulated markets cause injustice and insurmountable imbalances. We agree that in the face of this new phenomenon we must also promote regulatory innovation, perhaps with a change of mindset about laws and rules to deal with this digital disruption. We must be able to manage the transition and coexistence of this diversity of productive models in each of the sectors concerned, while at the same time guaranteeing basic rights of citizenship and avoiding unwanted abuses and consequences. Well, I think that's the spirit with which the Basque Government and the Department of Commerce, Tourism and Consumption are working. And it is also the spirit of the non-law proposition that we have agreed. Because, among other things, I believe that the obvious objective is to try to tackle all this clandestine activity with which I believe we do not agree. That is what the Basque Government is working on. And what we are asking for and doing is to establish a partnership between public institutions, so that, with the logical limitations imposed by data protection, we can establish channels of inter-institutional collaboration, especially with outlying farms and municipalities, so that the latter, for example, act from the perspective of urban management. Collaboration that has also been given in other cities of the world, with private entities in the sector, with so-called platforms, to try to reach agreements, in a way and way that can be avoided, to tackle this type of clandestine activity. We also ask the Basque Government to carry out a study. Because a census sounds like having, say, their location and the name and surname of who is carrying out that activity. It is also a terminological question, it is a conceptual question, but, well, obviously the Basque Government knows about the number of clandestine floors that exist, and that can even be detected by a citizen if he enters the relevant platforms. The difficult and complicated – hence certain measures and institutional collaboration as well, and also the collaboration of the platforms themselves – is to know exactly who they are, to identify them, and, if necessary, to impose the corresponding sanction. Also citizen collaboration. Citizen collaboration, which is being one of the sources to address this problem. And if not, we can ask that to different municipalities. And finally the information campaigns, where I believe the clear and sharp commitment of this Government to tackle this problem is shown. And we must congratulate ourselves on the agreement. And it will not be the last time, surely, that we talk about this, because this is something dynamic, but we think we are on the road and the Government is on the road to being able to tackle this problem.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u108	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. A group that hasn't run any corrections together Podemos. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u109	Mila esker, Tjeria anderea. Good afternoon to all the women parliamentarians. Today we are discussing EH Bildu's proposal regarding the current situation of the tourist housing market in Euskadi, an issue that, due to the lack of control and forecasting on tourist flows, as well as the government's commitment to offer the territory to the tour operators market, begins to generate some problems traditionally associated with the unplanned bet for mass tourism. Let us ask the neighbors of the historical helmets of Donostia or Bilbo, for example, if they have noticed in recent years direct affections in their life as a result of tourism. That is where it is relevant to ask, since those who do not live on a daily basis this reality will hardly consider that tourism can be considered something problematic. Tourism, of course, is a source of economic wealth, yes, but also social, symbolic and cultural. And we cannot forget the different dimensions it has. Focusing efforts only on the first of its dimensions, as you have long known in cities around the world, means reinforcing a model whose negative consequences are quite visible. The subject before us today (the massive rise in tourist flats in the Basque cities) has resulted in many houses, as I have just said, of Donostia and Bilbo, for example, being used for tourist rental, which in turn is causing, in the first instance, the price of both rent and purchase prices, and therefore also the lowest offer of flats for permanent housing. But also the transformation of the idiosyncrasy itself of our towns and cities, to the dawn of the different needs of a stable population or of a seasonal and changing population. Therefore, within the tourism sector in Euskadi we cannot continue to promote quantitative growth based on numbers and figures, obviating the worrying consequences that this already begins to have in our cities. A tourism that, as we said, has proven to have harmful consequences in other cities, such as Barcelona, of which we should take note in more than one sense. We are committed to the development of sustainable, orderly and responsible tourism; a tourism that is reflected in the figure of travelers, in the journey as adventure, of discovery of other cultures, with paused rhythms that make compatible the fact of visiting a city and the life of the neighbors of those places that undoubtedly have an interest in being known and visited. There is already a world-wide network of cities that are committed to another urbanism and to another tourism that is not devouring spaces and streets, that does not end up exterminating local trade or forcing the inhabitants of historical areas to emigrate. It is not, as I said, a question of focusing exclusively on economic matters. Let's remember the real estate bubble, and try to get some lesson out of it. Looking at what is happening in cities like Barcelona, Madrid, Amsterdam, San Francisco or New York we perceive that we are facing the tip of an unpredictable emerging iceberg. We are on our way to turning some of our cities into a tourist theme park, which expels its neighbors and causes other collectives, such as researchers, doctors, teachers, who could give added value to our territory, to prefer other destinations where the cost of housing and shopping basket does not involve such a disproportionate effort. Business cities, where the rules impose marketing platforms, in the face of non-compliance with the criteria set out in the Tourism Act and the complicity and lack of control of the institutions. Let us hope, from our group, that this will change, and that action will begin. We defend the new opportunities of the collaborative economy (may share rooms or rent our house), but this is not what we are talking about here. In short, we are talking about a growing speculative sector to which large companies are approaching and in which hundreds of houses are no longer being rented to live and become a new kind of hostel. For example, in the Town Hall of Donostia, figures that reach a scandalous 75% of rented floors outside the norm are being blocked. In addition, a majority of these homes are immersed in the submerged economy, without respecting minimum tax obligations. Is the government team of the Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party looking elsewhere at the violation of the law? From what we have heard today, he is willing to cooperate. Because it seems to us, and we hope to share this vision, a worrying situation. We are working to present proposals at all administrative levels – inter-institutional coordination is fundamental – that will help unlock this situation so harmful to the city and tourism model that we promote, where the people living in them are not forced to leave, where small local trade plays a fundamental role in the municipalities of Euskadi, proposing solutions to new phenomena such as gentrification, and where the city itself is a pole of attraction for other productive sectors. It may seem to you, Mr Retortillo, that the debate on the negative consequences of this activity is exaggerated, as you said, but not only do we see enough indicators of tourism saturation and mass tourism in some parts of the Basque Autonomous Community, but many experts also warn of the consequences of these phenomena if we continue in this line with a position of inaction and denial of reality. Other cities with the same problem – as we have already mentioned – are carrying out different actions to avoid the harmful consequences of housing for tourist use. These include on-site inspections of the floors to verify compliance with the regulations in each case, and the subsequent closure of those who do not comply with the regulations, the declaration of saturated areas, the freezing of licenses for tourist flats in some neighbourhoods, etc. To address this issue rigorously, we should have concrete and up-to-date data and figures resulting from the preparation of a comprehensive study, as requested in the compromise amendment; an up-to-date account of tourist flats and accommodation services of this type that are developing their activity outside the existing rules. In order to address this task, inter-agency coordination is necessary, and working with outlaws and municipalities. In recent years it is estimated that there are about eight hundred more tourist flats announced in Airbnb, which is a marketing platform, being the main platform of tourist flats, which has grown from 700 to more than 1,500 in less than two years. Also, as I have already mentioned, three quarters of the offer of this platform is illegal. At the same time, in Donostia, which is perhaps the most problematic point in Euskadi (800 of the 1,500 floors of Euskadi belong to Donostia), and by government action 128 illegal tourist flats have been closed in terms of the legislature, which at the end would mean that every time an illegal tourist flat disappears, about five more appear in the city. Therefore, we think that a responsible government, rather than thinking of presenting exorbitant figures of tourists, should be concerned about the well-being of the people living in its territory, the legal security of those who come to visit us and the compliance with the legality of those who carry out an economic activity that affects the resources that they are of all. Or, in other words, think more about the common good and less about getting medals. In this respect, we must work and coordinate, so that tourism in the Basque Country is inclusive and inclusive, tourism that does not exclude or expel anyone, that is in line with all economies and pockets, and that does not stifle the possibility of sustainable development of the territory and other sectors of the economy. That is why we appreciate very positively and understand that this motion is a good starting point, so our group will vote in favour, welcoming the agreement they have reached and hoping that this initiative will be part of many others, and that from the consensus we can work together to ensure that tourism in Euskadi takes into account the rights of citizens and not just economic gains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Passing on the answers, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u111	Well, I had promised a boring point, but I'm going to miss my word, as Mrs. López de Ocariz is working on creating controversy where there shouldn't be. It's probably in his nature, it'll be like the fable of the scorpion and the frog. But if you want to look for controversy over all the issues, choose your arguments a little better, because the one that stands out is yourself. How can I blame myself for using the term "hidden offer", when it is the definition given by the Tourism Act to these types of offers! Have you read the Tourism Act? You were there, I saw it, I heard it! You spoke about clandestine activity, tabled amendments to remove it from the law, amendments that were rejected... Therefore, you know that the definition given by the law is of clandestine activity. Tourism Act, article 27. It's just that I'm not making it up! How can you reproach me for referring to a phenomenon in the terms in which the law defines that phenomenon! That's what it's like to come here and fight over absurd things! Article 27, heading on clandestine activity, illegal offer and professional intrusiveness. I will not continue reading, but it is that, listen, several articles of the law define this phenomenon as clandestine activity. I, therefore, refer to that name. I know you didn't want it to be regulated. You didn't want this law! You tried to keep this law from coming forward, and still... It's just that I think... That is why I recommend that you choose better the topics of confrontation and arguments. It tells me that I do not have a clear conscience that I have collaborated to pass a law with which the whole tourism sector agrees. Do you have a calm conscience? Do you believe that the tourism sector approves your participation in this law, or your attempt to sabotage this law, which came with the satisfaction of each and every one of the representatives of the tourism sector? Do you have a calm conscience? You, the fruit of your neoliberal rapture, did not want any kind of regulation. They wanted this offer to be made in absolute deregulation. And they say this law is a hunk because it doesn't give instruments. You don't give instruments? What about the 1,500 homes that are already registered? And what about the millions of euros that are already entering the foreign estates into this concept? Where would they be if we didn't have this law? Can you imagine that at this point, with more than 1,500 dwellings surveyed and a clandestine offer that can be even higher, that is, with several thousand dwellings on offer in the tourist housing sector, there would be no regulatory framework? The cisco we would have set up with the hotels, with the municipalities, with the neighbors...! Can you imagine what would have happened if this Tourism Act did not exist? This law, with a very calm conscience... And, well, this morning we talked about the python Lola. I don't know if you see the future now and see EH Bildu in government, because he has addressed me at all times as the highest authority in tourism matters of this community: "You made this law, you don't know what...". Hey, it's done by the PNV government, and now it's ruling the PSOE. I, man, in a sense I feel praised for being treated with the consideration of a person who bears such high responsibility, but the law made it the PNV. Sure, just like you can't mess with the PNV now, because it's the shadow that's looking for your game right now to have a little bit of visibility. So, a law that makes the PNV, and you just blame me. And a law that has not been developed in time by the Socialist Party, and it only makes me reproach. Just like your new allies, you have nothing to say to them! Well, ma'am, as I was saying, choose the topics better, and stop making a fool of yourself. And Mrs Corcuera, and indeed not in the mood to argue, just a clarification. I did not mean that it was a lost year because of the lack of regulatory development, which I understand has its times, and the regulations will have to be made in those times. I was referring to the existence of instruments which, if they had been activated earlier, could have placed us not before 1,500 registered homes, but at a much larger number. If this that we are approving in June 2017 would have started motu proprio by the government in January 2017, we would probably now be in a much more advanced situation. But, as I was saying, it's not a mood to argue. Better late than never. We're pulling... I am also grateful, as I have done before, for your attitude, and if there really is a coincidence in the desire for a solution to this issue, then go ahead, and there we will be collaborating as far as possible. Finally, I would like to thank Mrs García, although she is not one of the signatories to the proposal because she has not tabled an amendment, I would like to thank her for the meaning of her vote. And also stress that we are fundamentally in agreement with the speech and analysis he has made, and we understand that we will also be on the road in that regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u112	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. The representative of the American Basque Team, Mrs. lópez de Ocariz, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u113	Ladies and gentlemen. First I wanted to say that, according to the Dictionary of the Royal Academy of Language, clandestine is "hidden, secret, and specially made or said secretly for fear of the law or to circumvent it". Therefore, Mrs Corcuera, it is something broader than what you have said here. We also need to know on the Internet how to apply the rigour of the terms used. Mr. Casanova, you have no choice. His interpellation: "Therefore, we have instruments, we have a law that maybe in a few years we have to say it hasn't worked" (Send the fuck! After having approved it, now the tirite is already being put on), "but it is that at the moment we have not even been able to implement this law". If we haven't launched it, how have those achievements been achieved? If we haven't started it! So, it's not the effect of the law, because you... Or are you lying in the interpellation? No, right? Since we have not put it into effect, there is no effect of the law. And if there is no effect of the law, then it is worthless, Mr. Casanova. That we have approved a text that this councillor with all his team has to regulate, he has to make the decrees, he has to talk to the municipalities, they have to make the ordinances with Eudel... Mr. Casanova, everything to do. Of course! And we do not vote in favour of that law. We do not vote in favour of the law. Of course, perfectly! And I've told you what clandestine means to make it clear to you, because I don't think you understand it yet. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a lot of work ahead of us. And to the spokesman of the group Podemos I would say that I would love to make a report, a study of the cost of the non-activity of the tourist use of the houses, and of another topic that we do not talk about, but that we also have to regulate it, that nobody dares to touch it (not this autonomous community, none): the rooms of the usual housing, that that is another important focus and that we also have to touch it. Therefore, the work is improbable, right very complicated, but there are examples, there are models that are working. And, look, Baleares ruled in 2005; we're in 2017, and it's still somewhat high in clandestine housing. Therefore, work is not easy, indeed. But, as we said before, this activity has come to stay, it is here, and among all of us we have to make it an activity that comes out, that becomes normal and that we all accept it. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u115	Yes, with permission, president, from the seat trying to be brief. I would like to make it clear, because I do not want it to remain in the House's doubt, when the representative of Elkarrekin tried to do the same, that we are dealing with the problem of tourism in cities that are not prepared for it, and it was the case of San Sebastián. I would like to make it very clear that San Sebastián has as its city a planning absolutely prepared for what is the tourist development (the one he had, the one he has and the one he will have), through his urban regulations; that it is an absolutely balanced city in terms of the various economic sectors that affect him, and that, therefore, it is a city that is currently perceiving that there can be a problem, not so much of saturation as problems of regulation of these houses and rooms for tourist use, and that it has put the measures to avoid it. I therefore believe that in this case there are no alarms about a phenomenon which, as some speakers said earlier, is very recent, but which we have not come to have by far the problems of the dimension of other cities in Spain and Europe; that what is involved here is to start up, which has already been done in addition... Mr. Casanova commented, it seems that we have had to wait for the motion to get things started and started and the law to begin. I have told you before, Mr Casanova, the subject of relations with the municipalities and with Eudel does not come from yesterday, does not come from today, does not come from fifteen days ago and does not come from a month ago. I am a first-class witness that the issue of concern for tourist homes has been coming for many months, and that is why we are working on this issue and that some cities and towns are starting to implement the ordinances. What needs to be done is to coordinate. This therefore takes time; not all measures of the action plan, but many of them. Therefore, I think the good thing is that we are on the right track, that what it is about is to have a sustainable tourist development (in that there is a real commitment on the part of the counselor and his department), and I think that is the line. To try to throw and throw us here who has done more and who has done before what, seems to me to be quite absurd; what needs to be done is to propose measures that are feasible. And so I thank you for not insisting on keeping the census of clandestine homes and rooms. And it's not because she's stubborn, but because she hasn't given us the sugar drop yet because we just finished eating, I would like to tell Mrs. López de Ocariz... I have here, and I read it to you, clandestinely, second meaning: "That it be carried out without the requirements required by a legislative provision". You take the first one, and I take the second one. [[Barres]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Mr. Uribe Househouse, your word is yours. URIBE-ETCHEBAR. APALAGED: Yes, briefly. Well, thank Mrs García because you'll protect the media text, but you'll understand that if I tell you it doesn't agree with the speech you made and the vote that you're going to give later on. Because in a different debate, I told you that you had a very important view of a catastrophist and astrophist around politics and about the state or development of tourism. And I'll tell you now that your speech today is not realistic. Because, on the one hand, you've given a lot of criticism, but then you're willing to hear from your vote that this is working very nicely. But, well, to try to dispel as far as possible all the doubts, fears, apocalypses that may exist, an extract, if I may, from a recent interview with the Mayor of Donostia – that I am completely sure that the counselor has not only said it, or said exactly the same thing, but makes it his own – where they ask him about this subject and says: "It is a question that must be addressed, that is clear, but I am not in favour of falling into exaggerations. The comparative data with other cities with which we sometimes mismeasured show us that Donostia's situation is good and rising, but it is still far from massification scenarios we know elsewhere. This means that it is more opportune than ever for us to think about it now. We know what's going on in other places and it's worth it if we stop, see what our reality is, what horizon we want to reach, what negative effects we can suffer and what we want to avoid. So far, our interest was attraction and promotion, but today our desire is also for people who can come here to find a quality destination and a real city, in which their inhabitants live and work. We also have on the table the regulation relating to tourist homes, the Old Part... We are immersed in the debate, planning and design of this whole strategy." I don't know if it reassures you, but in everything... No, it doesn't reassure you. [[Barres]] Well, bad luck. But, well, I still maintain – and I think the evidence will have its weight – that in the inter-institutional action of the Basque Government and the municipality itself – beyond the awareness, which already exists, and these words I think prove it – in the coming months we will see how from the action and from the action we will actually try to tackle those problems that can arise, that can be seen in the future. And I insist that there is no exaggeration. I do not know if you were the one who set the example of Venice in a previous debate. But Venice (zu izan zinen, jo)... Venice in its historic center has 60,000 inhabitants and receives 10 million visits a year; of course, Donostia, with 186,000, would need to receive, for the problems to reproduce, about 30 million visits a year. I think we're pretty far away, aren't we? Fortunately.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u117	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. Mrs. García must not speak. Well, since the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH, the Basque Socialists and the Eucalists, and the middle-line correction that the Euncists have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 70; the votes given, 73; the supporters, 73; the opponents are 0; white, 0; abstenations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u118	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. The eighth point in the subject list: "The other proposition of the same as the parliamentary Podemos, with regard to the Euskadian struggle against corruption. Discipline and final resolution. The proposer's turn. Together, Mr. Potemus, Mr Martínez, in order to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u119	Thank you, Mr. President. Partners. Is there political corruption in Euskadi? Badago ustelkeria politicikorik Euskadin? Bai bai, badago. Ireki ditzagun begiak. Let's open our eyes at once. Yes, there is certainly political corruption in Euskadi. Should we take action by this Parliament and the Basque Government to put an end to this scourge? Of course. Akordio beats heldu zen Legebiltzar hau 2014. urtean? Bai, akordio will beat hellu zen. Ez nahikoa zen akordio hau, bathe gutxianez akordio bat lortu egin zen. Have the terms of this agreement been fulfilled three years later? Unfortunately, it must be said that no, that they have not been fulfilled. Today we have brought an initiative that seeks only to reach out; to reach out to solve a serious problem of our society, of our institutions, and very particularly a problem of the parties that govern these institutions. But that's a problem that affects all of our citizens. Why do we claim that there is corruption in our country, that there are corrupt people, that there are parties with corruption problems? Zergatik esaten dugu gure herrian ustelkeria badagoela, partesona ustelak badaudela éta ustelkeria-arazoak dituzten alderdiak badaudela? Because the first public statistics on corruption in Basque states that between 2015 and 2016 there were twenty-eight Basque public officials prosecuted. Recently, this same year, we have seen convictions against two mayors; at the same time, three more stated that they were accused in court. Bi alkate kondenatuak izan ditugu, éta hiru gehiago inputtu bezala deklaratzen. We could do a list of corruption cases in Euskadi. We're not going to, because that's not what we're coming to today. But we do want to cite some cases that are particularly significant, to understand the anti-corruption measures that we propose today in this proposal. The case of De Miguel, a case that completely affects the Basque Nationalist Party in Araba. With 28 accused, the General Council of the Judiciary has described it as the largest corruption case in Euskadi. Euskadi's biggest corruption case! A case in which the collection of illegal commissions is investigated in exchange for public procurement. Not only awards to companies in exchange for illegal commissions, but they were also companies of friends. This case was reported in 2009; the education is more than six years old. In April of this year, 2017, the president of the Provincial Court in Araba said – and I will quote literally – "I would like to see the trial of the De Miguel case begin tomorrow! It is expected to start at the end of the year." Eight years after the denunciation, eight years later. Over the years there have been statements by politicians. Nor do I speak of any politicians: there have been statements by the lehendakari Urkullu, who claimed that the PNV was exemplary. Well, this was also what you said before you complained bitterly about how high the penalties the prosecution was asking for their former party mates. For this he also compared the penalties with those of Urdangarin and those of Bárcenas. Perhaps he unconsciously compared something more than penalties; perhaps he also compared the type of case. I say this because shortly afterwards you were also anxious to say that there was no 3% here, or that it was not the illegal financing of the PNV. But, I'm telling you, it's not up to you to talk about the Miguel case today. [[Berber]] So I'm not going in to respond to these claims.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u120	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u121	But, as the biggest corruption case, Miguel's case is not the only one. There have also been several more very relevant ones, such as Bilbao Air, with an insulting list of shellfish at the expense of everyone, or the Kutxabank case, in which from a semi-public-semi-private box false invoices were paid to a socialist discharge. Or the Epsilon and Hiriko case, with embezzlements of public subsidies negotiated by the Basque Nationalist Party in Madrid on account of the support of Zapatero's accounts. I only point out these questions to understand why we have proposed what we have proposed, why we have brought here what we have brought here today. But what are our proposals? What is it that we brought here? First of all, it was agreed on 2014 that the agreements should be carried forward. It's not much to ask, it's not much to ask. It was three years ago that the agreements were repeated. First, ask for means for the Basque Prosecutor's Office, means that the Basque prosecutors themselves have asked for over and over again, over and over again. The requests for material means, for specialized personnel, are recurrent. They have said on more than one occasion: "The lack of means" – again a textual quote – "facilitates impunity for corruption crimes" (the lack of means facilitates impunity for corruption crimes). Or that lawyers for powerful people accused of corruption have more means than the Prosecutor's Office itself. Some will say that they are ancient statements; for nothing further from reality. Do you know what the Basque Prosecutor's Office said in its last annual report? I will quote some conclusions. "Donostia's prosecution is understaffed. There is a need to increase or strengthen the staff of the Bilbao office. With regard to the staff of prosecutors, the request for the previous year's report on the need to increase the staff of the Gipuzkoa Prosecutor's Office is reiterated." The second point we are asking for in our proposal is to call for the establishment of an anti-corruption prosecutor's office or a specialised delegated prosecutor's office. I am not saying anything new if I remember that this has already been a demand made by the Basque prosecutors on many occasions. The third point, the increase of human resources and resources to combat corruption. There's an OPE running at this moment, maybe this is the moment to create profiles that are specialized in economic crimes. Aumena locis materiales y humanis con los que cuenta la bordera para luchar contra la corruption. Fourth point: To develop as much as possible Act No. 4/1992, the Basque Police Act, concerning the establishment of a judicial police force with permanent functional and organizational dependence on the courts and the Office of the Prosecutor. We expressly request the establishment of judicial offices at the very headquarters of the Administration of Justice. Bosgarrena. Euskal erakundeek kolaborazio osoa izan dezaten justiziarekin, ustelkeria kasuen ikerketak eta epaiketak azkartzeko, gehien bat foru-aldundietan. This is particularly relevant in the case of outlaws because of their involvement in taxation. Sixth. On the proposal of EH Bildu, with which we share a compromise amendment, we call for transparency to reach the area of the fight against corruption. We propose that a public census of persons and companies convicted of such offences be established; that all information on such cases be made available to citizens on the Irekia portal (the existing portal). And finally, to ask Euskal Irrati Telebista, our means of public communication, the means of all and all, the one we pay with the money of all Basques and Basques, to give an informative treatment to cases of corruption in Euskadi according to the gravity that these kinds of cases actually have. Sometimes it is curious to see that corruptions occupy much more space in Madrid than in Alonsotegi or Bakio. I do not say that they are neither more nor less serious than those of Madrid; what I simply mean is that the criterion of physical proximity to the news does not sometimes prevail in Euskal Irrati Telebista. Well, perhaps another criterion of proximity prevails: that of proximity to the ruling party. But I have started talking about the case of De Miguel, a case little known to the citizenry despite being the most serious, as I have mentioned before. Does this have anything to do with the informational treatment? A case with a very long instruction, of more than six years I have commented. Do you have anything to do with the lack of means to carry out this instruction? Do you have anything to do with the lack of expertise in the prosecution? Do you have anything to do with the limitation of means that the Ertzaintza unit that investigates these types of cases, a case in which twenty-eight accused, through resources, are able to delay the start of the trial? With what attitude have we proposed this initiative for debate? The one about reaching an agreement. Agreements even with parties, which are heavily affected by such cases of corruption, such as the Basque Nationalist Party and the PSE. I said at first that ours was a hand stretched out. Keep it up. We believe and are convinced that in the fight against corruption there are no shortcuts, that this fight is not against any political force. It's not. It's just against the corrupt. Therefore, we need to unite forces among all to set foot on the wall before this scourge. Foot on the wall, Mr. Latxaga, who goes by making a diagnosis of corruption in Euskadi. And I am addressing Mr Latxaga because he, along with Mrs Castelo, who is there, has vetoed an appearance at the request of our group in the Committee on Institutions, an unprecedented issue in this House. We need to know, as we detailed in Mr Zelaieta's request to appear, what is the prevalence of such cases, their typology and their situation, but you, Mr Latxaga, put a wall on him to talk about these things in this Parliament. You have put a wall to the possibility of working all political forces to deal with this problem, your problem, that of your party fundamentally. This last one maybe is a coincidence, isn't it? Therefore, and because of this issue, what I am doing today is also taking advantage of asking all the forces in this House tomorrow to allow, with the vote against Mr Latxaga's resolution, Mr Zelaieta to appear on the committee to make his diagnosis. That, as we will surely hear in your speeches that you are willing to talk about corruption and are willing to fight against corruption, that tomorrow you will also show..., not only today, but tomorrow you will also show that you are willing to open the doors of this Parliament to talk about corruption and no one in this Parliament will be called out to appear and make a diagnosis of corruption in Euskadi. Today we have forwarded several versions of the compromise amendment: we have included the order of points proposed by the PNV and the PSE, we have included phrases and terms taken literally from their amendment proposal. But they answered with a no. I am wrong: with two not the two proposals. Not even a proposal back, not even a proposal we could study. They do not want anything to come out of this debate today. You guys prefer to leave with rositas. You are coming today to spoil the debate. What you want today is not to place your impugned charges, your condemned mayors and your impugned Alavesa address in special hardship. Because, if there was an anti-corruption prosecutor's office in Euskadi today, the only ones who have something to lose are these alleged criminals I've cited. It is a pity, perhaps also casual, that they have not included these issues in their budgetary pacts in Madrid. A real random... Too bad I meant. Too bad. We're still betting on the hand stretched out. We continue to want to know why they do not want to urge EITB to report more independently, to report more rigorously, to report more objectively on corruption in Euskadi. We want to know why they don't want citizens to know who the corrupt are. We want to know why they do not want to increase the resources of the Ertzaintza and the Prosecutor's Office to fight against this real social pain, against this real civic pain that is corruption. And we want to know why you, with the succession of convictions and imputations to mayors of these months, prefer to simply keep the resources you already have and not fight corruption enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u122	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Passing over to the leaders' team, representing the EH Collect Group. Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u123	Thank you, Mr. President. "To obtain benefits which are not permitted to the use of public power." This is how corruption is defined by the Transprency International institution, one of the institutions of the world whose work in the world has most knowledge and credibility. It makes no distinction between legal and unlawful corruption, of course, because the laws differ in respect of countries. Because in a country there may be an account of this legality, but not in another, it clearly expresses it in its enquiries and studys. I'd like to leave there today. On the one hand, because we have goods which are not allowed to be used by the public power, which is here done within the limits of this legal frame, and, of course, we have, on the other hand, those cases which are usually more resounding in our society. Less talk is heard of the first, of legal corruption or corruption, the one that is enforced with the law in hand and without risk of the act being criminalized. This has been one of the reasons behind the processes of privatization and outsourcing of profitable and efficient public services to finance in some cases political parties or their foundations, to place customers or to place themselves. Or the favours that some companies receive where, after their passage through certain public offices and institutional responsibilities, they become co-sponsors of the boards of directors. Or that legal corruption that has turned the cost of public works into a custom in institutions governed by certain parties. There are probably many more ways of exercising that legal corruption, but the truth is that in EH Bildu we are nothing in the matter. So excuse me if any of the formulas I haven't mentioned, I'm missing. From the second form of corruption, from illegal corruption, we are in recent times attending a festival all the way up in the Kingdom of Spain, but the initiative that we are discussing today is confined to Araba, Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia, so I will focus on it. Do you remember the slot case, or the Bravo case of the Gipuzkoa Treasury? We also have the well-known Max Center in Barakaldo, or the opposition of Osakidetza, the latter with crimes and prison sentences both. We have the case of financing the headquarters of a party that has representation in this House in Bilbao. We have, or you will surely know, the Margüello case, you will have heard of the Pasaia lonja, the Pinosolo case, the Telleria case, the Purines de Carranza (which are quite current), the case of the Balenciaga museum, Epsilon-Hiriko, the plot case De Miguel (of which Mr Martínez has not come to talk to us today, so I will also not talk about it), the case Jáuregui, Glass Costa, Habidite, or the irregular practices that we have known these days from Metropolis. We also have Kutxabank, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. We have, as Mr Martínez has recalled, also in several localities and municipalities of the Basque Autonomous Community... In Zamudio, an ex-mayor convicted of corruption; in Mallabia, ex-mayor convicted of prevarication; Muskiz, ex-mayor convicted of prevarication; Zierbena, accused; ex-mayor accused of Erandio; sentenced in Galdakao; the ex-mayor and three buildings convicted of prevarication; Derio, the mayor also accused of prevarication; the ex-mayor of Lezama and eleven buildings also accused of prevarication... And a very long list that has passed me, that in many cases, without being illegal corruption, at least we could talk about practices when at least irregular and dubious. By commenting on some well-known and have had quite an impact, we have Lemoa and her clandestine txoko, with the pure; we have the case Zarautz Lur; Construction Morias in Aia, or 10,000 euros in invoices without justification in Hondarribia, etc., etc., etc. It's not true, then, that in Euskal Autonomia, there's no corruption violations. They're not an isolated case, they're just a way of acting. Some of them insist that Eukadin's corruption is less frequent than in the Spanish State. Yes, of course. Estomos hablando de unstado governoro por el Parto Popularo, que son campeones de Europe en todas las fashionades. And besides, they have a remarkable advantage over countries like Botswan, Cape Verde, or Bhutan. So we'll have to think about it right away. It is, therefore, no consolation for us to do this comparison in the Spanish kingdom, because it is easy, I think, to say that it lies in the character of Spain, or that it is a question of their personality, but we do not agree with it. And that takes us away from the problem, but it can leave us alone. But, as I have said, it is an interesting exercise to smooth the miseries which are in this country. So what's the problem? The nature of a country? Some people's dirty behaviour? Or the sign of the disease of a complete social condition which has been imposed upon them during centuries? Marx said that we must place the creation of the corruption at the very base of production. In this society, which is the strength of this feeling of property, the acquisition of economic gain has become the chief or almost the only object in this society. there seems often no room for public interest. It may therefore be inferred, that in the parts and governments which maintain the neoliberic neoological model, there is in some great degree a corruption. And corruption is not just material, it's also moral. There are some serious cases of corruption, bad practice, corruptions, trikinueles. It's true there are different degrees, some legal, and many illegal ones, and we don't put them in the same bag at all. But all have one common thing: they are not ethical conduct, and are not moral conduct. But if there are so many cases in the Basque Autonomous Community, why is corruption not at the top of the list of concerns of the Basques and Basques? It is a question that, in the last study made by the Office of Sociological Prospecting of the Basque Government, within the main problems of Euskadi corruption appears in the ranking in number 9, of twenty-three. So, it's pretty high, but it's not one of the main ones. However, if we compare it with the studies and conclusions made by the CIS earlier this month, in the Spanish State, corruption and fraud are the second cause of concern, only behind unemployment and unemployment. In our view, this is due, on the one hand, to the mantra that there is less corruption in Euskadi than in Spain, which is quite settled in Basque society, and, on the other hand, to a political decision to silence the media. And that is what we referred to in point 7 of the transaction we signed with the Elkarrekin Podemos Group, to urge EITB to really deal with these cases of corruption with the rigour and severity they have. But not only in the media, and said Elkarrekin's colleague We can: tomorrow in this House we will attend a veto on the Committee on Institutions, Security and Public Governance, a veto on Mr Ahoztar Zelaieta surely, unless the positions change, so that he can present a diagnosis of the current situation of political corruption in Euskadi. It is a veto that is being given – as Mr Martínez has rightly pointed out – by the PNV and the Basque Socialist Party. Very symptomatic, really. And yet I would like to share one last piece of information with you. In the last Deusto Barometer, where, by the way, the PNV-PP budget agreement is not valued as positively as in other studies, or the budget agreement in Madrid has more people against it than in favour, in that same study also questions the perception of corruption, and asks: "Do you think there is corruption?". On the one hand, 92% of the people in the Spanish Government believe that there is corruption, but what concerns us, and today is a cause for debate here, is that 40% of the people surveyed consider that there is corruption in the Basque Government, 35% in the outlaws, and 30% in their respective municipalities. It's very troubling. A great part of the public thinks there are corruptions, though they have not exercised much influence on his life. The consequence of this is, that the conduct above mentioned with the case of corruption here. And from all the arguments I have given in speaking, we believe that the measures which are received in the medium of half signed between Podemos and EH Shade may be a step forward against the corruption of Euscadin, which is unlawful, and which is legal or legal. And, on the other hand, we believe that in the initiative presented by EAJ and PSE, except for the first point of the prosecution, because we unite there, he seeks to continue the way things are, in a great measure, and does not suppose any solid progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u124	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u125	Good morning, everyone. Last point of discussion of today's plenary, and the last one before the beginning of the summer, and I came to discuss a non-legislative proposal that Elkarrekin Podemos had put forward regarding the Prosecutor's Office and the situation of the Prosecutor's Office. I didn't come to sell any books. It seems that the one who preceded me came to sell the book they wanted to do. So I, as I bring the supporting part of what that original bill is, in which you have said that you have reached out to us... Your hand will have been stretched out towards EH Bildu's bench, because with me there has not been a mail, a call, or a word. If you intend to talk to the gentlemen of EH Bildu or the gentlemen of the People's Party, or the gentlemen of the PNV, it means talking to the Socialist Group, you are very, very wrong. Therefore, do not say that you have reached out and sought absolutely no agreement. What you must do is go with your brothers in parliament, to what we are already accustomed to, and from there come here to say what you wanted to say, because you did not care to reach an agreement that would solve or put measures on the table. But, well, that is a problem that you have and that you are already repeating during this time of parliamentary sitting. Anyway. The proposal that you were bringing originated in the 2013 appearance, four years ago, of the superior prosecutor of the Basque Country and of the three provincial prosecutors, a appearance that took place in the parliamentary seat of the Justice Commission and which had its justification in the memory of the year 2012, five years ago, and in a specific section, which was that relating to corruption-related offences. You said in your proposal, that I was pleased to be able to read and work, that, despite the agreement adopted by the majority in this Parliament in 2014, nothing has changed, and that none of the institutions concerned has resolved the shortcomings that were evident. And this, you know, doesn't fit reality at all. I'm going to start my exhibition by sharing a reflection that was reflected in that memory of the year 2012, which is what you had to read, but I warn you, so that you will also be informed, that we have three memoirs presented behind that of the year 2012, and that it is convenient to read it. He said that memory: "We must be conscious" – said the procurator of the Autonomous Community, eh! –... "We must be aware that the phenomenon of corruption is not punctual, but consubstantial to every society. The fight against this phenomenon must be structural, through the establishment of administrative and political control mechanisms and the provision of material, personal and normative means for the administration of justice that allow for a real and effective punitive response. Attacking a phenomenon" – the memory continues – "as is that of corruption has to be addressed with actions of administrative prevention and social awareness, resulting in the last instrument that of criminal law". The truth is that we all share, or that I believe, that corruption, understood as the misuse or abuse of public power (I am not going to enter into the typologies that EH Bildu has used, which has started in one and ended in five) for personal or private benefit, is one of the problems that concern citizens and occupy political groups, and that, it is true, undermines the foundations of the democratic system. But, said this, I cannot allow it to be said that nothing has changed since 2014 until now. Because it is true that there are issues that need to be improved, because there is always room for improvement in this and other issues, it is necessary to highlight what has been gathered in the 2015 memory by the Office of the Attorney-General of the Autonomous Community, of this community, which textually on page 20, in case you want to follow the reading, says: "We note the confidence of institutions and individuals in the Office of the Attorney-General, in the referral of cases related to economic fraud and in general with regard to crimes against the Administration, usually associated with corruption phenomena. It is made aware that it may have its raison d'être in the speed and impulse on the part of our institution in the initiation of these dossiers." Hence, it may also be true that the spokesman for EH Bildu, who intervened, missed the justification for why the citizens' concern in Euskadi is not at those levels where it is in the rest of the State. Because it was said by the prosecutor himself in the appearance: there is trust of the citizens in the performance of justice, in the performance of the prosecutor's office. And I say that something will have changed then, from that 2012 to this 2015, so that the Prosecutor's Office wants to highlight in its report that citizen confidence in which it acts in crimes related to corruption. You've made a list here. Of course, with all that list of proceedings you are talking about is judicial proceedings, cases that are being investigated and acted upon by the Prosecutor's Office. It's just that when they come here, it seems like they're unpunished cases! Something will work, so that the Prosecutor's Office, in everything you know, acts. But it gives the feeling that nothing is done, and that all this is, then, in the end... And it is true, and you know it, that since that approval in this Parliament, in committee, of that GNP, there has been an expansion of the staff of the Office of the Prosecutor in Bizkaia and in Araba, because it is reflected in the memory itself, that there have been reinforcements of staff in the offices of these territories, that progress has been made in the specific training of prosecutors, and that more resources have been allocated to the specialized units of the Ertzaintza that work in accordance with the requirements of judges, instructors, courts and prosecutors. And that there is room for improvement is not something that I or you say, but that Mr Calparsoro says when he appeared earlier this year in the Committee on Justice, which said that, while acknowledging that there had been legal changes that had led to an extraordinary acceleration in the processing of investigative proceedings, because it has been limited to six months its maximum duration, and that – and he also said this textually – "has generated greater confidence among citizens", there continued to be some dysfunctions, and he mentioned in particular two: the computer system (which, by the way, does not only affect the processing of such crimes), and the functional dependence of judges, courts and the Prosecutor's Office of the Judicial Police. Although he also mattified us, to questions precisely from Elkarrekin Podemos, that this could not serve as an excuse to the Prosecutor's Office to carry out his work well, and that they were of course satisfied with what they were doing. Subsequently, and at the request of the groups, Mr Calparsoro reiterated his support for the creation of the figure of the deputy prosecutor for economic and corruption-related offences. The Socialists know that we manage the Council of Justice, although it has had no interest, and this Parliament has had the opportunity to know the clear and firm commitment to modernising and improving the administration of justice, the purpose of developing a plan to boost the electronic processing of judicial files, the consolidation of the new judicial office, the strengthening of the quality of training of prosecutors, judges, judges and lawyers, among other issues. All this is aimed, as we have shown, at a quality public justice service that is appreciated by citizens. The Socialists share much of the points of the resolution put forward by the initiative put forward, but there are some areas on which you know we have a discrepancy. We Socialists are committed to a genuine specialization of prosecutors through a specific continuing training that allows them to be more agile in the understanding and handling of the investigative procedures of these and other criminal types. The use of specialized experts is already being made, and it can continue to be done if requested, but we believe that the line of work should be to provide the necessary specific training to those who are the real protagonists of the research, that is to say to the prosecutors. He also knows the proposer, because he did not explain them with all luxury of details, even historical, Mr. Calparsoro, that, according to the regulations in force, the dependence of the Judicial Police Unit is exclusively at the functional and non-organic level, being that, the functional dependence, the only one that he marked as a line of work to improve. I therefore do not understand or understand why you have any reason to go beyond what the representative of the Office of the Prosecutor himself pointed out to us as possible actions, in answering a question put to him by his spokesman at the time, Mr Uria, about what we could do from Parliament to assist the Office of the Prosecutor. That is why we Socialists and nationalists have tabled a comprehensive amendment which seeks to reflect the issues where we believe that there is room for improvement for more effective action by the Prosecutor's Office, not only in the area of corruption, but in all the areas in which it operates, as Mr Calparsoro has shown us as needs. Thus, four points are taken up: the request to the Government of Spain for the creation of a delegated prosecutor for economic crimes related to corruption in the Basque Country; the provision of the material and personal means necessary to improve the functioning and effectiveness of the fight against the illicit or misuse of public funds; the implementation of measures to provide a judicial police unit with real and functional dependence on the Administration of Justice; and a final point to request the collaboration of all institutions with the Administration of Justice, in order to assist in the promptness of the investigation of complaints. But sadly, and despite the fact that we all share the supposedly joint goal of fighting corruption, we have not had the opportunity to contrast our positions, nor does it seem that he was interested in reaching an agreement with the Socialist Party. And just so I don't stay in the tinker and you can answer me, there are some issues that mix here in a way I think totally demagogic, with a pure and harsh demagogic. They come to tell us not about what their initiative is about, but about the book they want to tell us. And they are mixing things with vetoes, which will certainly be debated tomorrow and to which we will give full explanations of why we do not think that such an appearance is necessary here. But don't get nervous, you'll get the Socialist Party's answer tomorrow. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Your word is yours, Mr. Zurrill.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u127	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Mr. President, ladies of departments, members of the legislature, all good afternoons. In May 25th, we have a PNL, introduced by Podemos, to discuss the Eucharistic struggle against corruption. In its justification they date back to 28 February 2014, when this Parliament approved, with the votes in favour of the Socialist, Popular, Nationalist and UPyD groups, a PNL aimed at improving the fight against political corruption in Euskadi. Let's split it up. Lehena, Euskal fiskalek egiten zituzten eskaerei buruz. We must tell you that it is appropriate, Mr Martínez, to release the appearances that took place in the Committee on Institutions, Security and Justice on 12 November and 2 December 2013, where reference was made to the memory of the Prosecutor's Office for the financial year 2012 and which gave rise to that initiative that you have taken as your basis. The report had a specific section on crimes of political corruption, and as an anecdotal one of the prosecutors at that appearance stated that this year this specific section was requested. And what were the claims they made in those appearances? First, more material and personal means for the Office of the Prosecutor; the peremptory need for computer applications; the priority of the Office of the Prosecutor; access to commercial information databases; facilitating access to the primary training courses of the VATP; and strengthening the units of the Judicial Police. In the same appearances to explain the 2012 written memoir, which I was able to attend as a member of that commission, the Senior Prosecutor of Justice confirmed that these specific requests had been met in part or would be met by the various departments, and also recognized a fluid and correct relationship between the Prosecutor and the Basque Government, describing it as very positive coordination and collaboration. Literal: "The relationship with the Basque Government is very good and very positive." Nevertheless, the interpretation of certain groups of these petitions produced a great political game, and in this same committee, as has been already said, was almost unanimously adopted by another proposal of the law of combating political corruption. They say that more than three years later none of the institutions concerned with this initiative has resolved these serious shortcomings, and this is totally uncertain, Mr Martínez. Of course, resources are not unlimited and there is always room for improvement, but first, in relation to personal means, existing reinforcements have been consolidated above the number of places in the organizational staff, and the Office of the Prosecutor continues to be provided with more personal means (never enough). And as far as material means are concerned, I must remind you that the 2017 Budget allocates 8 million euros for investments in the new headquarters of the Prosecutor's Office, historical demand as well. As far as IT applications are concerned, both the Department of Security and the Department of Justice are making great efforts – despite their budgetary amendments, and we will see later – to improve all IT systems, thereby improving police, judicial and fiscal efficiency. They have also been provided with access to the commercial information databases, and an agreement has been signed to enable prosecutors to attend training courses that have so far been reserved for officials of the Autonomous Administration. And currently the Criminal Investigation and Judicial Police Unit of Ertzaintza has a hundred agents, and not only represents a quantitative improvement, doubling the number of personnel assigned to these units, but also qualitatively, since from the strategic plan Horizonte was decisively bet by the criminal investigation and working groups between the Judiciary and the Ertzaintza were created to work together and coordinated. Can you really say, Mr Martínez, that nothing has been done in these three years, that these serious shortcomings which you referred to in the initiative you have taken on the basis of have not been resolved? Maybe it was a smokescreen to talk about other things, as we'll see later. In addition, other measures have also been taken in the last few years in the Basque Country against public corruption. I remind you of the approval by the Basque Government of the Code of Ethics and Conduct for Public and Potential Personnel of the General and Institutional Administration of Euskadi; Law 1/2014 of 26 June, which regulates the Code of Conduct and Conflicts of Interest of Public Charges; the failed draft law on transparency, which was introduced in this House and rejected, and which will attempt to re-adopt this legislature. However, despite not having an approved law, we are leaders in transparency according to the rankings developed by Transparency International. And other steps have been taken, such as recruitment, contracting profile, etc. I also remind you of the PNV-PSOE 2016-2020 government agreement. It has not stayed in 2014, but looks to the future. Which I imagine you will know and I will not read to you, but look at the commitments with the transparency collected, the training and professional adaptation of the Ertzaintza, and the modern, fast and effective judicial system that is intended. And you don't have to go to 2014 (memory, as Mrs. Castelo said in 2012). After that, after 2013, also annually the senior prosecutor of the Autonomous Community has appeared to explain the annual memoirs. And more recently, on 7 February this year, the senior prosecutor of the Autonomous Community appeared in the Committee on Labour and Justice to explain the memory of the Office of the Prosecutor for the financial year 2015, the last one presented in this Parliament. And I don't remember hearing from his mouth the prosecutor's representative in this community these kinds of criticisms. Quite the opposite. And in that memory of 2015 we talked about economic crimes, which also had a specific section, in particular in the section "Other specialized areas", in the eleventh place of twelve areas, where it is said that the relationship with the security forces and bodies is fluid in the three territories, and that the Ertzaintza has a unit of economic crimes of the central section that performs satisfactory work. For this reason the correction of our whole system follows, on the 28th of February 2014, that of a vast majority of this legislature, we think there is no reason why we should not follow the work which we have hitherto done. And we reached the key point of his initiative. They believe that it is of political and social interest to return to this issue, which generates deep public concern and indignation. Evidently, the issue of political corruption is a worrying issue that generates great public outrage. And justified, by the way, in many cases. Our parliamentary group, our party, is clear that all possible means must be put in place to put an end to political corruption and that decisive measures must be taken against the corrupt, but also that the presumption of innocence must be respected for all people – not just for what we are interested in – and that all necessary procedural guarantees must be established in order to avoid taking unjust, illegal, irreparable and disproportionate measures against an innocent person, such as one of the initiatives put forward by EH Bildu in his amendment and in Mr Estarrona's speech. In this regard, the 2016 report of the Public Ethics Commission was presented only fifteen days ago, where it was revealed that so far all the closed judicial instructions, in which there were up to seven public offices of the Government under investigation, have all been filed by the courts themselves and no complaint has reached the oral trial stage, so the commission makes a recommendation, Mr Estarrona: avoid an excessive rush in the demand for preventive measures to the public offices, because it could cause irreparable damage to the image of the persons concerned. Therefore, demanding, but prudent, criterion, because of the compensation in these cases I have rarely heard in this House talking to some groups. In other words, don't mess yourself up, Mr Martín, as in other matters, although you don't want to, Euskade is different. And it's not different because we say so, sociological tests, election results and judges. As mentioned earlier, in the latest CIS barometer corruption is, after unemployment, the main problem for Spanish and Spanish with 42 %, at 17 points in the first case. On the other hand, according to the last sociometer, in Euskadi this problem occupies the number 9 position, with 5%, very far from the first one, which is employment (74 points). And then there are the actual data, of people convicted of crimes related to public corruption, despite repeated attempts by each other, through the complaint or the public prosecutor's office. He said it wasn't worth mentioning or worth mentioning, but, well, two convicted mayors have been mentioned here. Is the sentence final, Mr. Martinez? Mr Estarrona has made a cocktail here of defendants, even cases have been mentioned that are already filed judicially. The other day, a member of your group spoke of the need for a politician to be honest, and I pointed out to her that, in addition to honesty, responsibility. For you have had neither honesty nor responsibility by referring here again to cases that are filed judicially. It has even been allowed to speak of "moral corruption". In the second round, we'll talk about it. I understand that you do not like this data, and therefore try to stir up the issue of political corruption here, basically seeking partisan revenues. They intend to extend the shadow of Spain's corruption to Euskadi, but they see that there is not much going on here. Mr. Martinez spoke out of hand. I'd say extended hand. And he said, "They'd have preferred to leave with rositas," that is, we didn't want to get into the game and we didn't want to get it. He spoke of the so-called De Miguel case, "Euskadi's biggest corruption case." Formerly were the school dining rooms, the alleged government sponsorship of the News group, the Hiriko-Epsilon case... We'll see how those trials end; let's let justice work, which is what you're pretending. With regard to the first point, which called for the creation of a Basque Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, we can agree, although it is a decision for the Government of Spain, on which the Office of the Attorney-General of the State is responsible and which, although it created the Office of the Attorney-General of the Republic of Spain in 1995, so far, twenty-three years later, has not seen the need to establish a delegation in Euskadi. That is why this is reflected in the first point of our whole amendment. On the second point, they urge the Government to immediately increase the material means dedicated to Ertzaintza against corruption crimes, as well as to increase the number of agents dedicated to its investigation with the precise training and qualification. And how do you do this, Mr. Martinez? I think with money, with economic resources. It might be thought that your amendments to the budget have been rejected in this area, but to the security budgets you have tabled fifty-three amendments, in the area of security: fifty-one proposed reductions of more than 11.5 million, and only two proposed increases, and not precisely to meet the requests of the Prosecutor's Office. Could you please tell me, Mr Martínez, where, in what amendment or amendments, tabled five weeks before this initiative, was raised by Elkarrekin Can we leave enough to immediately increase the material means dedicated to Ertzaintza against these crimes and increase the number of agents with the precise training and qualification? In addition, they proposed a substantial reduction of more than €700,000 in the current costs of the Basque Police and Emergency Academy, which is where this specific training is mainly acquired. How do you get this? Because Arkaute's training plan, indirectly amended by you, provides for specialization courses, updating and...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u128	Please finish, Mr. Zorrill.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u129	... and enhancement in criminal investigation and intelligence for a total of 775 agents. And tell us, Mr Martínez, how does this proposal to increase the number of agents with the amendment that they had sex with EH Bildu last June, try to freeze the call for the 27th promotion? Consistency, Mr. Martinez. Or isn't this really what they're worried about? I'm finishing up, Madam President. [[Berber]] They called for the judicial police to act with permanent functional and organizational dependence on investigating courts, courts and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u130	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u131	In this regard, we must remind you, Mr Martínez, that the judicial police are not regulated in this way either in the Constitution or in the Organic Law of the Judiciary or in the Basque Police Act. If they want to change this, what they have to do is an organic law, and put it in the General Courts where they have representation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u132	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u133	That's why we proposed that we continue to comply with section III of Title IV of the Basque Police Act, with dependency... [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u134	Quiet, please. The rest of you, shut up, please. And, Mr. Zorrill, you end up too, please. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u135	Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Finally also, regarding the... [[Berber]] See, here you've been...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u136	Please finish, because time's going on. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u137	It just seems like it stings or bothers you what I'm telling you!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u138	Finish it, please!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u139	Well, since I'll have another five-minute shift later, I'll continue in the second shift...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u140	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u141	Although it was not my intention, I wanted to ask you for those explanations in the first one, so that you would have an opportunity to answer me.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u142	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Your time is over for a long time. It's the crew's turn that doesn't have any corrections, the Basque Potion Group's turn. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u143	Someone left the pen, Madam President. Then they're going to say that I've left it, that, as it is, like to do nonsense! [[Barres]] Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I must confess to you, especially at this hour of the afternoon, that I feel quite comforted by the tone used in this debate. Look what we're talking about! Especially in comparative terms with discussions on the same subject not too long ago. And this is a positive thing, because we take note. I think it is right to take note of the preventions, of the appeal to the presumption of innocence, of the reminder that the process is not a conviction, but that the process is full of guarantees, plagued with guarantees, and that it must be so in a democratic and legal state like ours, and that the condemnation is hypothetically issued by a court or a judge, and it is after that that that we have to issue political judgments. And political judgments that can be issued, obviously, on the attitude of political parties and on certain politicians. But let the sentence, in a democratic and legal state – and let me remind you, although others have already remembered it, but this is to take advantage of – the sentence is handed down by the judges, and in any case by the courts. Mr. Martinez was wondering, I think correctly, in a rhetorical way, "Is there corruption in Euskadi?". He was also answering, because that is the power that gives you to be in this rostrum, to ask and answer you, "Of course." And we believe that obviously yes, just as there is corruption in Germany, as there is corruption in France, or as there is corruption in any other country in our environment. The important thing, or the serious thing, being this serious, or the relevant thing, is not that there is corruption, because it is probably something inherent in the human condition, especially when the human condition has a certain exercise of power, but the really relevant thing is how we react to corruption or how we introduce elements of control or prevention also so that corruption does not occur, or, if it does, how it reacts and how we act. And there was also reference to what had happened in 2014 in this House with that non-law proposal, and the question is whether things have changed since then. We, if we make a calm and serene analysis, believe that things have changed since 2014; that it has been legislated to make it more difficult for the corrupt, to make it more difficult for those cracks that the democratic rule of law has to be exploited by those who want to take advantage of them, and that the State, the public authorities, the institutions, in the end react to cover those cracks or to sharpen those spaces, so that the corrupt, the caradura, the jet, cannot take advantage of them. Things have been done at the national level, things have been done in the Congress of Deputies: more than seventy legislative initiatives adopted in the last legislature, to try to avoid and make it difficult for the corrupt. The Criminal Prosecution Act has been reformed (and this affects all political parties), the Criminal Code has been reformed by tightening the penalties also for corrupt people, including introducing an element that did not exist in Spain and that today there is, for example, criminal responsibility of political parties, not only of individuals... Things have been done. I have the feeling..., we believe that to a large extent it has been interpreted that we must react, and that we must make it more complicated. In this sense, if we do a serene analysis, I think we can share this. Have things been done in Euskadi? I believe that things have also been done in the Basque Autonomous Community. In this Parliament we have also had the opportunity to discuss matters of transparency in order to make it even more difficult for the corrupt. Have enough been done? We believe that not at all, that we can do more. That is, we believe that we can have more tools to improve not only prevention, but also the response to corruption cases. And that is why we are voting in favour of the compromise amendment to which the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party have come, mainly because we share the view that it is appropriate to have a delegated prosecution office for economic crimes in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. We already asked for it in 2014, and unfortunately we still don't have it. But it is no less true, either, that if someone today has been able to list things of corruption known in the Basque Autonomous Community, it is because the rule of law works and reacts. Because the corrupt one ends up hunting. Because whoever wants to commit an illegality by taking advantage of a position of power or privilege that gives him political responsibility, he is hunted (let me express it). And if today the enumeration, as I say to you, of individuals and cases has floated in this House, it is because it reacts to corruption and is put to trial, at least a process with guarantees, which is allegedly corrupt, and when a judge and a court says so, it will be acquitted, or it will be a declared corrupt. But we do believe that it is good, we believe it is dissuasive, and we believe that it would also strengthen the action of the Office of the Prosecutor against Corruption, if there were also that deputy prosecutor for economic crimes in the Basque Autonomous Community. And we also believe that the Ertzaintza must also reinforce... that the Ertzaintza must be a truly integral police force. And this not only provides the law and political discourse, but the facts. And we believe that Ertzaintza, as in many other matters, also in economic crimes, also in the fight against corruption, should be exemplary and should be a police force that we could be proud of. And today there is still no such thing, and they are other police officers, it is the State Security Forces and Corpses, which function forcefully and routinely – and this is something that prides us – against corruption and corruption. And we would also like Ertzaintza to be an example for its action and for its results in this fight against corruption. We will therefore vote in favour of the amendment to which the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party have come, and we will reject the compromise amendment agreed between Bildu and Podemos, mainly for one reason, and it is that we disagree because we find it incompatible that in a rule of law, with the minimum guarantees that must be provided to citizens... Point 6.1 (to identify it more clearly) seems to us to be particularly incompatible with those guarantees that a rule of law must have with its citizens. We don't believe in lists, we don't believe in public censuses. We find it absolutely incompatible in a rule of law like ours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u144	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Passing over to the answer shift, together, Podemos. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u145	Well, Mrs. Castle told me that I didn't address her. No, I don't. I have addressed Mr. Zorrilla, because from the experience, and from the account he brings me, I understand that your government pact is going to make you go in the same direction; that with addressing the majority partner is enough. And not only that, but it's that above, with the speech you've made here, it's proven. With the speech you have made here it has been shown, because it seemed that your arguments were directly taken from Sabin Etxea. Don't look at me with that face, because it's true. After all, we have no political influence in his speech. Because, after all, the amendment they have tabled with the Basque Nationalist Party, what it says, is to continue doing the same, and to continue doing more of the same. And I am sure that if we were in the last legislature you would have accepted our amendment and not this one, and you would not have accepted an amendment that what I was talking about is to continue doing more of the same, and more of the same, and more of the same, which is what you have raised here today. Another thing I'm going to tell you: the memory I've read is the same one you've referred to, the memory of 2015 published in 2016, in which the demands I've talked about (Donostia's tax office, Bilbao's office, Gipuzkoa's prosecutor's office) appear on page 12. You told me about page 20, I'm talking about page 12. Page 12 talks about the issues I was raising earlier. So, well, I am going to say one thing. It's true that we're used to it and it gives us a little bit of the same, but we are tired of this tone of giving lessons. Before it seemed that Mr Andueza had invented gunpowder, and he has moved us so that he has been here for forty years in Parliament, and then you who do not know how to read memoirs. Well, the memory to which we referred is the same. And finally, about tomorrow, nervous. I'm not nervous at all. You should be nervous, which is the one who has used your office at the committee table to make an anti-regulatory political decision, making a bad application of the regulation. That's what you've done, that's for sure. But, well, tomorrow we'll see about it. [[Applause]] And, Mr. Zorrilla, first question. Note that I have not talked about an increase in the Ertzaintza staff; I have talked about an increase in the number of people involved in economic crime in the Ertzaintza. You said there were, in one unit, a hundred people. No, no, There are 25 people in the unit who are engaged in economic crime. Twenty-five out of about 7,700 in the Ertzaintza. 0.003% of the body of the Ertzaintza dedicated to this, and not exclusively. And not exclusive! Twenty-five agents out of 8,000, and I wonder, can that be changed? Yeah. Because I would like to know, in the times ahead, why we need five hundred agents in the Mobile Brigade (five hundred agents), when we have twenty-five dedicated to economic crimes. And when I first raised the issue of OPE, it is clear that it is going to be done, that at least they should study the profiles that are going to be carried out in Ertzaintza, if the number is going to increase. Because, as I have said and as we have proposed before, with a plan of adequacy we could also attack these kinds of crimes. And I know that you very much like to talk about the presumption of innocence, because Mr Egibar already demonstrated it when he hugged Mr De Miguel in this very Parliament. And I know they like to let the judges work, and I also know that their Justice Advisor meets with the D.A. I know. It says the same annual memory I've announced before. But it's just that there'd be more to it if they didn't get together! But we already know how well they manage everything, and we already know how well some of the mayors manage everything. And finally, I would like to make another point. Once again, there is going to be an agreement between PNV, PSE and PP, and I will tell you something. The corruption that you criticize so much in the state, and to which you compare so much the situation in Euskadi, is the corruption that the People's Party mainly does, and when one deals with the People's Party in matters of corruption, of course, it's going down the wrong path. Because you are negotiating a compromise amendment in which the People's Party feels comfortable. It feels comfortable here, just as you feel comfortable, as has happened today in the Senate, when all the groups in the House have left the House because the commission of inquiry that is being given is a pantomime, except the PP and you. [[Applause]] That's what happened there today...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u146	Silence, please! Silence, please! This isn't Congress. (Laughter) Please be quiet. This is Parliament. Please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u147	But, well, to conclude, because I do want to adjust to time, above all to say that bringing this initiative to Parliament today is something that is bound by citizenship, Basque citizenship (we are the Basque Parliament, and I am aware), which is concerned about this issue. As the Deusto Barometer said, 40% think the Basque government has corruption. There are many types of corruption. We usually talk about black corruption, gray corruption and white corruption. Today, above all, we have focused mainly on grey, which refers to illicit enrichment, misappropriation of public funds or irregular financing of political parties. But there is also a much more subtle one, the white one, which refers, for example, to plugging and customer networks. Of these there is in Euskadi, and a lot. But above all, it is a matter of political responsibility. We have raised this in the search for agreements, even if Mr Zorrilla says no. You have refused in the round. We have done so with a hand stretched out, which they have rejected by double, unanswered. No answer. Yeah, just a no. Not even a proposal. Not even a proposal has been sent to us. Not even a proposal! We have done so by asking for an appearance to make a diagnosis of the extent of corruption in Euskadi – which has been rejected, as I said before, in an unprecedented act – but we have also raised this debate because it is a question of social justice. Corruption is not only scientifically proven that it limits economic development; it also generates social inequality. And believe me that for us this is not anecdotal, it goes beyond a necessary and indispensable political regenerationism. It is to make Euskadi not its false Basque oasis, but a land of opportunity, equality and justice. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u148	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. The representative of the EH Group, Mr. Estarrona, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u149	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Zorrilla, I had no intention of going out in this second reply – I think I had also communicated it to you – but I really don't think you understood anything about the first intervention. And I think that you were more concerned about the discursive sprint you submitted to us, that you did not even fit in the three minutes you were given by the President, that you were paying attention to what you were trying to explain and that you understood. And you have commented on Transparency International, and I have relied on that precisely to make that first reading of what corruption is. Eta Transparency Internationalek dio "publikoaren batere ebilpena giorni ez diren onurak lortzeko", hori da korruptioaren definition. In other words, the use of public power for the achievement of non-legitimate benefits. Therefore, it is true, I have made a relationship – I said it – that we have put it in different degrees, because there were trichinets, there are chanchulleos, there are condemned cases, there are accusations, or in legal terms investigated right now... It's the right thing, I think. But, anyway, I think I know that cases that are overruled do not mean that they are permanently archived (and, if not, correct me), because there may be unresolved remedies in such cases, or new data may arise in investigations that reopen the case. But what has really worried me is the issue that I have termed my words dishonest and irresponsible, and therefore I have been dishonest and I have played with little responsibility. And in the face of this, I would like you to tell me later, in your second round of reply, that..., then I will go on to read a series of statements that have been said by different leaders of the Basque Nationalist Party, and that you would tell me whether you consider these statements to be honest and responsible too, if you share them, and if they can be so. Because Xabier Arzalluz in his biography, and so on, talks about the problems that affect especially the parties that reach power, and adds – and I quote textually – "You start having the possibility of being given money," he admits. And he goes on: "Before which two possibilities are opened to you. The first, to demand that you be paid a percentage of the total price of the commission: I grant you this work, I recalibrate this piece of land or I charge you with the manufacture and these uniforms, or I assign you the contract of such or of which, if you pay my party a 4, 5, 8 or 10" (depends on the case and the cravings for money that you have). And the second is" – and I quote textually – "you attribute these works according to the law, by the means of the award established, but you do not hide from the entrepreneurs that your party has needs that it covers with great difficulty". And that's what Mr. Xabier Arzalluz picks up in his biography. Finally, he adds: "I am convinced that all major parties have received money from large companies. Of the construction ones, especially". In an interview in 2015 the former leader of the PNV and exporter of the Basque Executive, Mr Joseba Arregi, said: "Probably" (they laugh, laugh all they want), "the fat man of corruption in Euskadi has not yet appeared. Politicians are human like everyone else, and honesty is shown when it comes to power and the possibility of putting the casket appears. Some even put the check in before. What is needed is that justice hunts them and takes them to jail." And I end with the current President of the Basque Court of Public Accounts, that this is already beginning to be, as usual, to make his quotation, because this is indeed worrying. And I'm going to read it textually, because to me this – and forgive the expression – seems already embarrassing to me: "Many can be quiet, because I will never write my memoirs. Memories in which people with their greatness and misery could appear. Unfortunately, there would be a lot of misery. Those who said one thing in private and another in public; those who lied knowing that they lied; those who knew that we had information that we could not use and played with it; those who said one thing and the opposite without blinking; those who made payments with bank notes without proving their origin; those who had large sums of money in tax havens and whose names do not come to light; those who have repatriated money of unknown origin and who go down the street like some gentlemen and even allow themselves to tell others what we should do. I tell all of them that they can be cool." Honesty and responsibility, Mr. Zorrilla.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u150	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u151	I was going to intervene from the stand, from my seat, but since I left the bowl and they didn't take it, before Mr. Semper came out again, in case I'm going to take it. And I take it and get out of here. [[Barres]] Tells me Elkarrekin's spokesman We can that your experience and your prejudices have caused you not to address the Socialist Group to deal with this issue, which understands that there is a parliamentary mating, which should be the one you, with the complex you have with EH Bildu, that everything negotiates with them and believes that talking to them is the same as talking to you... But, I'm going to tell you, talking to the Nationalist Party isn't talking to the Socialist Party, and if you're going to use it like that, I think you're doing it a little bit for lack of personal interest on this issue... Because you here did not come to an agreement with regard to the Prosecutor's Office, the media of the Prosecutor's Office, or the needs of the Prosecutor's Office. You came here, as the lord of EH Bildu has come, to tell what you wanted to tell. Issues, by the way, that count, but that have all been prosecuted. Some were investigated, others were prosecuted, others were convicted, others were dismissed, others were filed, and others were acquitted. You've been exclusively concerned in this rostrum about that, and I'm not going into that game, so I'm not going into it. I already know that it gives you all a little equal, to your formation almost everything gives you a little equal, and considers it to give lessons. I, by the way, comrades, don't need to be applauded. I come out here quietly, I say what I have to say, and I don't need the cheers of comfort at all. (Berbotsa) But I am not going to stop being in this rostrum and saying what I think I have to say, in the tone with which I think I have to say it, because you feel ridiculous when you are told to take the documentation and read it. Because you tell me to read me page 12, but you make me a mix. And it is true that the Prosecutor's Office says that it needs personnel for the general working group, not for the corruption group, and for the juvenile group, and that is why we are asked by two more people in the processing body. And it's also true that they're asking for it in the Bilbao Prosecutor's Office, but it's saying that you have to increase the staff for the violence against women section. Then, not everything is worth, not everything can be mixed. I already understand that it is to you that you are interested, that demagogy and that speech, which is the one you came to sell here, but I when I take a non-law proposal what I seek is to reach an agreement to put in place measures consistent with those of 2014. I mean, my position hasn't changed: in 2014 we were asking for some things, and now in 2017 we're still asking for improvement. That you don't understand and tell me that I have to open my eyes... You should also apply the sentences you say a little bit. With regard to some of the issues that you have mentioned and which I do not intend to enter, with specific cases, I will recommend to you the reading of page 34 of the 2015 report, with regard to some of the cases that you have mentioned, and you will see the satisfaction of the Álava prosecutor when she speaks of certain cases. I, in fact, know that they are active on social networks, and that what we are doing here is not a strange agreement with the People's Party and the Basque Nationalist Party; what we are doing is trying to take action from this Parliament to work against corruption. What we do not do is join the People's Party in the Congress of Deputies to allow some of our most distinguished representatives to earn two salaries. And that, which by the way Elkarrekin Podemos does, then doesn't transfer him to social media. I mean, the truth is that to me, as Mr.Lander Martínez has also said – how is it...?–, it gives me a little bit alike. Well, the truth is, I don't care what you guys do about it. All I'm interested in is knowing what's coming out here today. And the truth is that I must thank the People's Party for adopting the amendment tabled by us, so that we can ask once again for the creation of a deputy prosecutor in economic and anti-corruption matters; for the necessary means to be put in place, both material and personal, in the Office of the Prosecutor; for the continuation of a judicial police unit with a functional unit of judges, courts and prosecutors; and for the collaboration of all the institutions in the information needs that they have. But I will also remind you of a question that comes in the last of the memoirs, and that exclusively nine proceedings were opened for crimes of misappropriation of public funds in Bizkaia, compared to twenty-seven of the previous year, and that the decrease was even greater in Araba, where they went from sixteen to just five in 2016. Something will be done, something we will be doing so that all this goes on a continuous descent.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians, Mr. Zorrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u153	Thank you. It is very easy to adjust to time when the questions are not answered. What I wanted to make clear, and I think I have been quite clear, is that, on the one hand, Elkarrekin Podemos raises some things, and on the other hand it is not coherent then, when it can be done, with the facts that they pose or do. Therefore, consistency, I tell you; unless this is not what really matters to you. He said about the number and the training. We already know what you think about the police, also about the Ertzaintza. They've proven it with facts. And training..., if the budget line is reduced, obviously no more training can be required. This is like the half full or half empty bottle. They say about the PNV-PSOE agreement with the People's Party. The same could be said of your tacit agreement with Euskal Herria Bildu. I don't know. The proposal. He tells me that they have made a proposal and that we have only answered a no. Yesterday he made me a proposal in which I told him not for a few reasons, and this morning he made me the same proposal and I told him that being identical is not worth talking about. However... well, I'll leave it to the end. As far as Mr. Estarrona was concerned, he was talking about honesty. Yes, I think he was not honest in the first intervention and he was not honest in the second. First of all, I'm going to re-incidence, talk about political corruption in Euskadi and talk about cases that have been definitively filed by justice, many of them with the complaint made by you, it's not honest, not to say anything honest. Secondly, speaking of words, putting here words of a person who is dead and who cannot defend himself is dishonest, dishonest. I don't know if there's the honest word, but not honest. [[Barres]] He was talking about many cases in that cocktail he's made us, and I'd tell him, how many convictions have there been?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u154	Silence, please!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u155	I do know convictions, and many without the right to defence: the murder of engineer Ryan in Lemoniz, sergeant Goikoetxea, kidnapping and murder of Miguel Ángel Blanco, the bombing in Hipercor... Here there was a conviction, and execution. Therefore, you cannot talk about corruption, give lessons, try to give lessons of corruption to the Basque Nationalist Party, when the greatest corruption is ethics and morals. [[Berber]] ...and they still have to take a lot of steps to get rid of that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u156	A ver, silence, please. Quiet, please. Silence, please!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u157	I'm done with Podemos. And well, we can, well, logically... And I already knew it, but well, I've bothered to do this job to highlight your approaches. But it is clear what was the approach of this Podemos initiative: to extend, as I said earlier, the shadow of political corruption in Spain, which has given them more or less reasonable results, to Euskadi, who with the same approach sees that he is not going anywhere. And I have to tell you something you already know, and that is why it presents this initiative: that Podemos is the result or consequence of political corruption. Look, they're children, we can (I'm not talking about any of the members that make up Elkarrekin we can), we can be the fruit or consequence of political corruption, children of political corruption, of citizen indignation at it, and it's clear that without it they can't live, because it has to serve them to feed back. Without it, they can't survive. And I'm done. In past legislatures EH Bildu, UPyD and to a lesser extent the People's Party tried to criminalize politics, trying to obtain electoral revenues. The results are visible. Strong convictions, how many? But yes many unjust bench feathers. And the PNV doesn't forget, the PNV doesn't forget. And electorally Basque society is very mature and intelligent, and in sight it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u158	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Finally, Populars, Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u159	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Lehendakari jauna, ladies and gentlemen. I do not believe, Mr. Zorrilla, that we can be basically the fruit of corruption. He has other things, there are probably other factors that explain it. There is a general uncertainty, there is an economic crisis that causes this widespread uncertainty, but it is true that the feeling of corruption, the existing corruption, blemishes to anchor the ascua to its sardine. Not to calm the moods – and we said it in some other intervention – not to generate calm and sensible debates that go to the root of the problem and try to provide solutions, but the more the forest burns, the better. But I am going to say one thing to Mr Martínez so as not to extend too much, because it seems relevant to me, Mr Martínez. Look, you have used an argument against the Basque Nationalist Party taking advantage of the People's Party passing by; that is, you have come to say that "see what text you have come to agree, between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, that even the People's Party feels comfortable with that text." Look, I can assure you that the most important heritage that we have the nine parliamentarians that we sit in this House, the most important heritage that we have, I don't know if the only one, but of course, believe me, the most important and the one that I am not going to allow anyone to miss, is that of honesty and honesty. Honor and honesty also forged and worked in the most difficult circumstances, as you well know, because you are not so young, and honesty through a trajectory also that you have demonstrated a public service vocation to bomb-proof. And this is in a literal sense. But it is surprising that you are using this argument against the Basque Nationalist Party when in addition you, before starting this point, have sat with me to try to get the Popular Party vote on your initiative! So we've already entered into political schizophrenia, which I don't know who's right. So, to try not to drive us all crazy, you sit down and talk to me and try to get us to vote for your initiative, which I think is reasonable... Moreover, I said to him, "If it seems reasonable to me what you put in the text!". You didn't run out; you said, "Well, that's good!". And you tell me, you warn me, "Well, but we're gonna make a deal with Bildu's, eh!, so you can come up with something else," like, "Well, what's going to come out of here!". And seeing the text that you have agreed with Bildu, in which we are talking about a census, that you practically pose a pyre in the squares of people against the one who has been corrupt or supposedly corrupt, I have said to him, "Man, we cannot approve this, because it is poorly democratic." And I'm going to use this intervention gently. Let us not break, let us not alter the terms of dialogue and communication between political formations and the minimum rules of conversation and contact between political parties, because if we break and blow that up, then we will be able to build few upbuilding things. I am not going to judge you, nor you, nor will I burden you with the soft hand with which you are addressing the Basque Nationalist Party and that reverential fear that you have. I'm not going to blame him. It seems to me, you know, that everyone has his fears and everyone has his untouchable totems, and his and his is the Basque Nationalist Party. But let us keep the debate at least in this House in terms of balance and rationality. And that's why I started my first intervention, and it wasn't ironic, appreciating and praising that... maybe it's because they're heading for another power, but that tone, and that adjustment to the right and the presumption of innocence. Let's keep it on those terms, because it's fair. And when someone is convicted and a political party reacts, behaves in a wrong way, or does not exactly adjust to the minimum fees of political ethics, let's denounce it routinely, and denounce the corrupt once he has been convicted. But in the meantime, we value the presumption of innocence as a good to protect. Because, as I told you on some other occasion, the procedure, the prosecution, is not the sentence. The procedure and the indictment are marked by guarantees, which are offered and which the State and the system provide to any citizen, even if the crimes that weigh on him or the accusations that weigh on him are the most serious. Because, if not, we would not be in a democratic and legal state, but in the law of the jungle. And I can assure you that, even if some want this autonomous community, the whole of Spain, to become a law of the jungle, others will do what is in our hand so that it does not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u160	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote together with the middle-point correction that Podemos and EH Teams have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 70; the votes given, 73; the supporters, 28; the opponents of the enemy, 45; white, 0; abscessations, 0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u161	So the middle-line correction has been rejected. Next, we vote for the Eucabertians and the Sociaists of Basque Sociialists, who have been introduced to one another by teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 70; the votes given, 73; the supporters, 45; the opponents, 28; white, 0; abscesssion, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u162	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Now, we're going to go to the first point. But, I mean, before we vote the first point, we've made members of the council at the second point and the substitutes are also accepted. First point in theme list: "To name the delegation of the Basque Congress which will present the initiative of the Supreme Court on creating a declaration of compensation for the victims of the Amiant." According to Article 231.1, each member of the legislature will write names, at three, at the most, on the vote, and he who gets the most vote will be chosen. Before we start, the names of the candidates. Little to small: Does the Poptular Party have a candidate? No. The Social Party candidate? Mrs Sánchez. From Podemus? Mr. Hernandez. Collect EH? Mrs. Blanco. What about the Eubertians? Mr. Akianz. So, next time, we'll get the name out. Yeah? No words now. No, no words now. Lander, there are no words. Martíne, there are no words. No words. We talked. No words! No words, no words! No. Mr Martínnez, there are no words. We've started a vote. There's no word. Rule does not leave word. No words!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u163	26, García Larrimbe, Edurne.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u164	Papers parted. Well, then ask. There's no papers missing from the members of the legislature. So, hand it over to those who don't have it. [[Pause]] The first secretary at the table has contacted the members of the Parliament to vote with Mrs. Garcíambe. After the vote, the result was this: for Mr. Zallo, 53; for Mrs. Blanco de Angulo, 64; for Mr. Hernandez Hidalgo, 28; Sánchez Martín, 36;
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-29.u165	So they were elected to represent Eve Blanco, Jon Aarda, and the Parliament for Gloria Sánche in Congress. Next, I shall read an institutional expression: The institutional G7-G20 representation. "The Act of the U.S. Eus does the parlamentary expression of Rome, derived from the International Conference of G7/G20 Parlamentaries, 2017. The name of this expression is the challenge of the world in motion: emigration and the diversity of genera, freedom of action and the determination and permanent development of women." The entire institutional expression is on the website of the Basque Laws. So whoever wants to read, it's in there. "The Basque Parliament endorses the Rome Parliamentary Declaration adopted at the 2017 G7/G20 International Conference of Parliamentarians under the name 'The Challenges of a Changing World: Migration and Gender Equality, Freedom of Action and Decision of Women and Sustainable Development'." The full statement is available on the website of the Basque Parliament. Hamaika orri ditu; beraz, nahi duenak irakurri dezala. [[Barres]] I simply end the whole meeting, because it's time. It was six o'clock in the afternoon and thirty-seven.
