ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u0	Good morning, everyone. We start the whole meeting. Let's start with the first point on the subject list: "By the first and only reading process of the Eubertists, EH collect together Podemos, Socialists, and Parlacular Groups of Euscal, to employ the legal proposition of law for the principal courts of the State, for the victims of the amianto, for the production of a composition of compensation for the victims. Discipline and final resolution. By following the table of January 31th, 2017, all the parliamentary groups will be able to reach the whole meeting as soon as possible and with a single reading process. Your papers have been distributed to you, so let's begin our discussion. The side shift, the other side... On the other side, who wants to participate? Everybody. We'll start from the Popular Party. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Madam President, you are going to allow me to first congratulate Deportivo Alavés, and secondly all the Alavese, who are very proud of the feat that was achieved yesterday in Vitoria, before entering the matter that is now calling for us. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Applause]] Give it up, don't be afraid! Give it up, give it up! What a horror! That's good, that's healthy! Which is a success for a sports club in the Basque Country! Also from the Basque Country is the Alavés Sportsman, ladies and gentlemen. [[Barres]] Good morning... The debate and the final resolution of the proposal for a law on legislative initiative before the General Courts of the State, for their urgent debate and for the single reading procedure, which was formulated in this House and which called for the creation of a compensation fund for asbestos victims, are now being discussed. This initiative, as those who were not in previous legislatures have already been able to verify, is already coming from previous legislatures. This bill was adopted in May. The Bureau of Congress has returned it because it affected the budgets of the State, and what we have done is a small modification so that it does not affect those budgets and, if the Bureau considers it to be so, it can take place. As I said, this initiative arises from the presentation that was made in order to analyse the content, purposes and responsibilities of a possible asbestos compensation fund within the European context, which will raise its conclusions in terms of proposals so that its recommendations can be incorporated into the Basque Labour Health Strategy. From the Group of the European People's Party we remain firm in the idea that it is necessary to create a compensation fund for those affected by asbestos, and that this fund must go beyond the scope of the Basque Autonomous Community, and that is why we have recourse to the Chamber of Deputies of Spain, thinking that the ideal would be a European equality fund for all those affected by asbestos in the European Union. In the same way that we have been firm in this respect, we insist on the need to address other areas and actions within our Autonomous Community that need to be implemented in order to alleviate the situation faced by those affected by asbestos and which were highlighted in the presentation. This House in its day told us that no to an initiative that we are presenting, and in this legislature we are going to resubmit it, because we firmly believe that in the autonomic sphere there are many aspects that can be improved to improve the situation of those affected by asbestos. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Mrs Sánchez, representing Basque Socialists, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u3	Thank you, President. I would like to welcome the representatives of the Association of Affected by the Amicable Persons present today in plenary with us, because to them is directed all the effort we have made in this House. Today we are again discussing the proposal for a law establishing a compensation fund for asbestos victims, for their urgent debate in full by the single reading procedure. It was already approved at the plenary session of 19 June last year unanimously and referred to the General Courts, but its entry has been rejected at the Bureau of Congress, considering it could affect this year's budget. An error had been made in that assessment, and the wording of the second final provision had therefore been amended so that there was no doubt about it. My parliamentary group in Congress is ready to support its handling. Time has been wasted on that mistake, but I hope that this initiative will continue to have the unanimous support of this House. I think the effort is worth it. This Parliament has been the first in Spain to carry out this work, so we believe it is important to resubmit this initiative to the Congress of Deputies. The victims who have been exposed to asbestos deserve it. The constitution of the presentation began at the end of the IX legislature and ended in the last legislature. It was, in our opinion, timely and pioneering, if we take into account the volume affected by exposure to existing asbestos fibers and it will increase until about 2023, after the latency period. It is expected that the figures will be stabilized from that date onwards and a rapid downward trend will be initiated. As Chairman of the Committee on Employment, Social Policy and Housing of the 10th Legislature, I had the honour to draw up the final report of the paper. I'm proud of it. It was not easy to collect in the report of the presentation everything that was presented and worked for a long period of time within it, but the report contains very interesting and pioneering conclusions. And later this bill was drafted, taking as a reference the French FIVA model, because we consider that this model was the most complete of the three existing in Europe (France, Holland and Belgium). We had to have this law translated from Parliament, because it was not translated in our country, so that we could be guided. We translated it and we wrote it. There is still no compensation fund in Spain to help compensate those affected, as is the case in other countries of the European Union, either at national level or at the level of any autonomous community. And it was also considered in the submission agreement that this compensation fund should have a national rather than an autonomous community. Its creation would avoid the judicial calvary to which the affected persons and their relatives are subjected, immersed in very long and costly processes, as well as the difficulties of proving in which undertaking the disease and exposure could actually be started, and whether such undertaking exists at the time of the commencement of the process. This fund will provide an offer of compensation which, if accepted by those concerned, would entail, as in other countries, the waiver of ongoing legal proceedings. However, we continue to evolve in the creation of the compensation fund for these victims and their families after fifteen years. We continue to believe that its creation is necessary, and we want all the efforts made by this House not to be sterile and to refer it back to the Congress of Deputies. We continue to believe that this effort is necessary and just in order to achieve, once and for all, the creation of the asbestos victim compensation fund at the national level. You can't keep looking the other way. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u4	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u5	Good morning. Our group considers it more than necessary to set up this fund, and appreciates the deference, both from the Association of Victims of Amianto and from the other groups in the House, in allowing us to study this initiative, which, as has been said, is an initiative that has already been approved by this Parliament, and also unanimously adopted. Our coalition was not present in this House when this initiative was approved, but part of the coalition was present when the work of the paper began, back in 2012. I mean, it's an initiative that's coming from afar and that's no stranger to us. It has been easy for us to add to it, therefore, since it is an issue that has concerned us and occupied us a long time ago. Firstly, seeking the ban on asbestos, which did not reach the European Union until 2005, a very late date if we take into account that the first conclusive studies on the damage of asbestos to health date back to 1977. Prohibition, not eradication. The struggle therefore continued after the formal ban on asbestos, both for its eradication and for the establishment of rights for those affected by asbestos. Much remains to be done in this area, because many of the initiatives that have been adopted are, unfortunately, a wet paper. My colleague, MEP Paloma López, was a driving force behind an initiative in the European Parliament in 2015, urging the European Commission to include the fight against asbestos in the Community Health and Safety Strategy. We have put forward different initiatives throughout the State to eliminate this material once and for all. Thus, we have recently presented in the Parliament of Andalusia and in the Congress of Deputies initiatives for the elaboration and approval of plans for the elimination of drinking water pipes of fibrocement (mixture of asbestos and cement). Some 40,000 kilometres of supply networks in the State could be built on the basis of this fibrocement. As partner Eva García Sempere says, the possibility that we are consuming asbestos-contaminated water is real; what we don't know is exactly where. We have also denounced that, despite the total ban, millions of tons of asbestos remain in the state as a whole, posing a health risk. The European Directive 2003/18 prohibits the use and marketing of asbestos and marks its replacement with other materials, given its potential danger. It is clear that this directive is not being implemented. If the directive were to cut workers' rights, it would probably already be applied in our State and in our country over a decade ago. In March 2013, the European Parliament adopted a resolution alerting the dismantling of such water networks. There are still four years later. Initiatives to end asbestos in our environment have also been adopted in Euskadi for many years, but they are not fully implemented. For example, the asbestos map in the municipalities has not been completed. Our coalition is committed today in this House to working to bring this initiative to a good place this time, and so we have made it known to our colleagues in the Congress of Deputies, so that they will acquire the same commitment. A very important part of these asbestos victims are also affected workers in the course of their work. Unlike accidents at work, occupational diseases do not occur instantaneously. Some, such as in this case cancers, silicosis, asbestosis, appear decades later from work exposure, favoring their invisibility. While in Germany 14% of cancers are recognised as occupational disease, here we do not reach 1%, with similar legislation. With the approval of Royal Decree 1299/2006, on the new system of declaration of occupational diseases, some thought that these would come automatically, forgetting that their management and payment passed on to the mutuals, experienced entities, in our opinion, to save in the time of paying to the workers, and specialists in washing the responsibilities of the entrepreneurs. Recognition of occupational diseases also improves the economic management of Osakidetza, as mutuals are forced to incur such health expenses. Without forgetting, of course, that their recognition benefits the economic benefits of workers and their families. We would therefore save the Basque public administration a lot of money if we acted forcefully in this field of detection of occupational diseases. I think that's a job for the Department of Labor and Justice. Today we can push this very important initiative among all the victims and victims, but we can no longer recover the lost lives or make the contracted diseases disappear. What we can also do is to avoid new conditions, not only of asbestos, but of various risks to which the workers are exposed. We are pleased that there is unanimity in such a proposal, and of course we join it, and, as I have said, we pledge that our fellow Members in Congress will also push this initiative to a successful conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u6	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. I too, as an Alavesa, would like to congratulate Alaves. In addition, for us it is a joy to play again against Barça, because we will have the opportunity to fill and clean our lungs at the start of the game. Now to the point. I'll say in two minutes what EH Collect means. This Chamber has been discussed for a long time, and we believe that today we must explain what the time is and what we must do to solve it. For, ladies and gentlemen of the legislature, all these parliamentary groups again present to us this legal proposition, concerning the production of a composition for the victims of the amianto. To tell you the truth, I should be in Madrid this year, or we should all be in Madrid to defend this. But, as I have said, as we did nine months ago, we present the same proposal in the Chamber of Gastei thanks to the slam of the Spanish State. Another twist: we have redrafted the text so that the Spanish Government has no excuse and does not reject this bill again. We have spoken in three different kinds of legislation about the amania, and we may say aloud, as we have agreed on more than once, that the injured amanias have no answer, no compensation, no remuneration. Therefore, if we agree here to create a composition of compensation for the patients of the amania, we believe that there is a chance of agreeing with Madrid, if there is political will. As we have said, we have only received the slam. A contempt for all the injured contempt of the legislature, and that which most concerns us. EH Bildu will maintain, as he has always done, the same position here, in Madrid and where necessary. We will use all the resources at our disposal for this proposal to be debated in the Courts, and we will try to agree with all the parliamentary groups on the best formula for the creation of this compensation fund once and for all, which is new in the Spanish State but established in other European countries. We hope, through this long course of action, that we may receive the fruit of the rapids. And we at least see that our victory will not be the most injured, the most injured, but the society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Mr. Akiancia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u9	Thank you, ma'am. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning to all. Time: physical magnitude, which enables the sequence of events and the determining of the moments. From 1960 to 1990, the amianate spreads in Europe. It's a great product, it's a mass marketing. 2005. It's very toxic, it's prohibited in the entire European Union. See you 2015, more than 10,000 dead in the state. Predictions between 2025: there will be more cases. From December 2011 to June 2015, at the initiative of the Basque Parliament, a presentation on asbestos is held. Without ruling out any scope of study, it finds a clear deficit in the area of compensation to those affected and affected; an area in which most of the states in our environment have already constituted specific funds. The main conclusion of the presentation is clear: the creation of this compensation fund in this State, in the State, is necessary. It is necessary to end the lengthy judicial proceedings to which the persons concerned must be subjected, which in many cases no longer find a company to which to claim, and in others many fail to see the end of the proceedings alive. 2015: the Spanish State is late in correcting this situation, unjustified and irresponsiblely late. Time: 15 years late. 25 June 2015: The Basque Parliament unanimously adopted the opinion of the presentation. In this resolution, in addition to summarizing the work of the paper, the conclusions of this pioneering initiative are developed, highlighting among them that of promoting the Congress of Deputies the creation of this compensation fund. 19 May 2016, Plenary of the Basque Parliament: while the resolution of June 2015 already placed duties (in parliamentary argot) on the Congress of Deputies, the parliamentary groups, collecting the momentum of the Association of Victims of the Amianto of Euskadi (eskerrik asko), assessing the depth of the work carried out during two legislatures and knowing in detail the typology of the different compensation funds that operate in Europe, thanks to the detailed work of Osalan, understood that they could go further, and, using the way of article 87.2 of the Constitution, presented a bill, that is, a full text articulated in which the compensation fund was designed. This initiative before the Courts was proposed by all the groups in the Basque Parliament and approved, logically, unanimously. After two parliamentary sessions of deep work on paper, the Basque Parliament went from the duty of the State to do the duties that the State had not done. The end of 2016: it was only necessary for the state to finish the little work it had left; it was of justice. Time: sixteen years late. 14 October 2016: Rajoy government veto. Argument – and I quote –: "The adoption of this bill would mean an increase in budget appropriations, so the Government does not give its consent for its processing." End of date. Time to argue, twelve seconds. 13 December 2016, agreement of the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies – and I quote –: "Expressed by the Government its disagreement, agree that it is not appropriate to take it into consideration by the Plenary of the above-mentioned bill". End of date. Time for consideration, eight seconds. 9 February 2017, today, again in full. After this urgent debate, and through the single reading procedure, the unanimous adoption of the bill before the General Courts of the State establishing a compensation fund for asbestos victims. Time, that physical magnitude that allows sequencing facts and determining moments. Time, which the Spanish State and its most representative institutions seem to have left. Time, that which those affected and affected by asbestos and their families do not have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u10	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. There will be no reply shift. So we vote for the bill. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters of 72; counters, 0; white; 1; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u11	So the legal proposition concerning the production of a composition is accepted for the victims of the amianto. Second point on the subject list: "To discuss these other proposals of law together, and to take up the final resolution: "Phum up the other bill of parliamentary groups, the reopening of the decrees of the social and social services which will be guaranteed to answer and pay proper attention to new social needs. "The other proposition, as the Parlamentarian Society made, concerning the changing of the ratios of workers, who pay attention to the duties of persons who are dependent on them." The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Aguirre, represented by the EHG team, has the word to introduce and defend her.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u12	Congressman, good day. And also good day to the unions and representatives of the associations that have come to you at the pleno. It's a special day, because today it's gonna be a day of dignity. Most of you might have changed a package or a diaper or a diaper, right? The first time is magic. Then he becomes mechanical: clean, get up, put in the bundle, glue it, take it, kiss and go. It's a pretty simple job. As for a grown-up person, when you change the bundle for the first time, I wouldn't say it's magic, but it's strange, because you're right in life. Technically, but it's not so easy, it depends on a lot of factors. If he can stand, well, if he has any decency, it becomes difficult, and if he can't get out of bed, it's very difficult. And the difference is that you have 50 pounds, or you have a hundred pounds. Often, too, you get the bundle to be packed and you pull it one way and break it over to paste, and you have to start all over again from the beginning. Today, but we're not here to talk about the packages. But packs are important points in the proposal we proposed today. Because now you must think that you must change the package for 15-25 people. Think you have to clean it up or take a shower first and have only seven minutes per person. Think that breakfast often joins lunch. Often think that you can't get these people off the seat because you don't have time. Think of the bundle having to change at least three times a day. And think only one person has to do that job every day for 1,000 bucks every day. Would you leave 25 children in one year in custody? I don't think so. These are the rations, and that's all. And to-day we came to talk of rations, of the ratios of the masters' houses. The ratio is a pretty ugly word. Horrible, I'd say. It's abstract. He just tells us about numbers, and he doesn't tell us about people. He doesn't tell us about our mothers, our parents, our grandparents or grandmothers, or ourselves in a few years. The ratios, the people who represent those ratios, are the reason we're here today. The ratios are security, they're quality. The ratios are, above all, dignity. Dignity of persons in residences and also of persons working there. Rats are security, they're quality, but above all, they're the ration of dignity. Not just the people who are at home: and those who work there. Ratius is health, of some and others. These Rats are the daily date of the women of the houses of the Biocians. And I say they're women because they're women at 97% of staff. Ratys, but they are not heaven's curse, they are not a disease, they are not an accident. The rations are a political decision, and it's a political decision. The number of times the package changes every day or that person is a political decision whether he's taking a shower on that day or not. Ratios are not a curse from heaven, they are not a disease, they are not an accident. The ratios are a political decision; a political decision of the Basque Government. The Basque Government decides how many times that person's diaper will be changed, or whether or not that day plays a shower. The ratios are the responsibility of the Basque Government because they are a public service, and their competence is to offer quality public services. The dignity of older people is in their hands. It's agreed by a decree that those services, those rations, by a decree from 1998. Yes, by a decree of the past century, which established the duties of the masters, what ratios to be performed. But the world has changed for 20 years. Statistics listen to us happily, saying that the hope of life has lasted longer, but statistics don't say how we live the last years of our lives. Statistics are quantum, they're not quantum, they don't show what dependence we'll have in the last years of our lives. We live longer, but we're more dependent, we can't change that. These statistics don't say that the rates established 20 years ago are no longer valid. They are of no value in vice, because it is essential to say what they were doing when they were assembled in the government of the EH which increased them in the gym. In fact, it makes a lot of fun, but the forums have the potential to increase those ratios. And why don't they grow these rations in vice? Do we not deserve the biscaidians as much as the Arabs? Why don't they grow these ratios? That's why they're working at the headquarters of the main Biscai strike with 5,000 people. But this isn't just a matter of the main business. This is a problem with social services, the rations are inappropriate at the present day in all social services. We can't go on with last century ratios. That is why we come to Parliament with a specific proposal, a proposal with which we agree with all the political formations represented here in Parliament. We've come with a specific proposal, a proposition that everybody agreed on. That's why one, we believe today is a day for joy, because we think we've made a big step and it's going to be final. Two, we're glad we've opened our gates today to the solution of the conflict in the main Biscay. And we're happy to show today that we can make an agreement in this legislation. We come with a concrete proposal, and we are happy because today we are going to take a step forward, a step that we believe will be definitive; we are also happy because we believe that today we are opening the doors to the resolution of the conflict of Bizkaia residences, and we are happy because today we demonstrate that we are able to reach political agreements.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to all, and good morning also to those who are with us today in this debate. A debate that, as the representative of EH Bildu said, is very important. It is a debate that affects people, it affects our elders and it affects us, because we hope that we will all reach that age, and we will all be affected by what we are debating here today. Indeed, Decree 185/2015, which regulates the portfolio of services and services of the Basque System of Social Services, comes to reflect the rights recognized in Law 12/2008 on Social Services. A law whose development has not been characterized precisely by its speed, because it has taken almost eight years for that law to enter into force. Moreover, many of the decrees are not clear enough, and many of them are absolutely out of date. And the consequence of all this is the deficits and dysfunctions in the quality of services, and also, as has been said here, in the working conditions of the workers of those services, which here more than ever comes in the quality of those services. If necessary, therefore, these decrees should be updated. And it is true that it was approved here in this House, in June of last year, in 2016, and it was said that the three institutional levels, the service providers (the Basque Government, the deputies and the municipalities) should participate. This committee also spoke in 2016 about basic social services and the professionals who should have per capita. But we want to refer, and we have done so in our proposal, to a much more concrete aspect, because we are looking, as has been explained here too, at that decree which regulates the staff ratios for the centres for dependent persons, which were drawn up, as has been said here, almost twenty years ago. It is true that ratio is a word that sounds strange, that sounds cold, but I think it is a word that we all know perfectly well about what it refers to. It refers to how many people there have to be for each of the people who are in dependency in a residential center. Already in 2014 in this House we discussed the updating of this decree, and an agreement was reached. And both the Basque Government and the deputies and Eudel have a predisposition for amending the decree, but the decree has not changed. And it has to be done from the Basque Government, which is the one that has to lead it, involving, yes, the entities of the sector, the users and their representatives and the care staff. As we say in the initiative, reality has evolved greatly, and thus the needs of users of services and services. Especially because older people do live more, but, in addition to living more, they have degrees of much greater dependence than they had a while ago, when this decree was drafted. Therefore, in order to ensure the quality of life of residents and the quality of service, these staff ratios need to be changed, as well as the functional and material requirements to be met. Because, as we say, in these twenty years new needs have arisen, and therefore we have to adapt to those new needs. And who can do it and has to do it is the Basque Government. And it can do so, because the ratios are obviously not immutable; as has been said here, they do not fall from heaven. We have the opportunity to change them so that they are sufficient and necessary to give that quality care. And it is true that this issue is hot news for the strike of workers in Bizkaia residences. A strike that will last throughout February and that adds to the seventy-five days of strike they already held in 2016, which affects about 6,000 workers. With absolute respect for the right to strike of these people, it should be noted that care for the elderly has been diminished, affecting them in a very serious way. And our group is very concerned about this strike. We have presented various initiatives at the Bizkaia General Councils to know their effects, and the measures that were to be taken from the institutions, in particular from the Bizkaia Provincial Council, to alleviate the consequences of the strike, to guarantee the dignity and quality of life of the elderly, who are the users of this service. A report by the employer himself shows that the strike affects meals, showers, postural changes, diaper changes, hydrations, clothing changes and nap hours and bedtime. Some data that family members also believe is so. Family members are living with great concern in this situation. As hard as it is to have to take an older person, a family member to a residence, it joins to see the attention problems that are emerging. And we believe that the institutions can and should act, both the Basque Government and the Bizkaia Provincial Council. Today, as has been said, we are taking a first step: we call on the Basque Government to amend as soon as possible the decree regulating the ratios. As I say, it is a first step, but an essential first step, which should have been taken a long time ago but which needs to be taken now, and taken as soon as possible. We also proposed it at the Bizkaia General Councils in July last year, and it was adopted unanimously. We believe that this is to get involved, that the Basque Government has to get involved, and the adoption of this decree would be the proof, the shaping of that involvement. Moreover, this situation of lack of attention is aggravated on strike days, but it also occurs in normal situations, when there is no strike, because the staff ratios that currently exist, according to the decree, are not sufficient to provide a quality service. This is why it is important to amend the decree, because it affects the working conditions of women workers in residential centres, but – we have said it here on other occasions – the working conditions affect, and in this case absolutely well, the quality of the service that is provided, the dignity of the service that is provided to the elderly. The Bizkaia Foreign Office has sometimes said that if it is considered that the ratio of workers is scarce, then companies hire more. But it is not a question of trusting the goodwill of companies; what is involved is that it is mandatory to establish, through a decree, what is a clear and manifest need. And we believe – and we also take this opportunity to say so – that the Bizkaia Foral Diputation must also be involved. We have said this on many occasions: a public service can be provided directly or indirectly, but that does not mean that the service ceases to be public. It remains a public service, and the quality of that service, its proper functioning, is public responsibility. And in the exercise of that responsibility the parliament should also be involved in the conflict and its resolution. As the amendment says, "respecting the autonomy of the parties and the conditions of their own recruitment", public institutions must ensure "guarantee quality public services and decent working conditions for all those working in those services", because that will result in what is fundamental, I believe, for all, that is the dignity of the elderly served in those services and in those centres. I believe that the amendment to which we have come reflects all this, I think there will be unanimity, and it is really very important that we have all been able to agree on this. We therefore hope that the decree will be adopted soon after the adoption, that this first step will be taken towards the cessation of the conflict in the residences, and that the limbs will be put in place so that it will not be given again. We hope that today, with this unanimous approval that we believe will be given, and with the subsequent indispensable action of the Basque Government, a situation that will last too long will begin to be unblocked. And to continue to take steps to develop all the decrees that are also lacking to be developed, so that the rights recognized in the Social Services Act and the Portfolio Decree can be realized in this way, and to be able to obtain quality social services for all Basques. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u15	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. Good day to the congressmen and good day we're down here, even to the fighters up there. As has been said by the foregoing, the decree of the establishments and social services is now to be determined at this present point, and we must give the answer to the wants which are now present. And I'm really glad we all made a deal, even though it's hard to get to this deal. I am extremely pleased that, in the short time that we have been here, our fundamental pillar in policy making has been to reach agreements and consensus with the other parliamentary groups, and, as we have done today, on issues that really concern citizens. And for this plenary we have had to reach an agreement, because unfortunately, the demands of the staff of the residences have to be heard once again in this Parliament, because the government has ignored the commitment it made when it adopted on 29 June 2016, in the Committee on Employment, Social Policy and Housing, the Proposition No. of Law 90/2016. It agreed between EH Bildu, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party to urge the Basque Government to update the decrees regulating social services and services, which regulate, in addition to the ratios and other personnel issues, the functional and material requirements to be met by the centres and services. And I wonder, or we wonder: where are those updates? You haven't given them time in almost eight months? Or perhaps we have not given him the priority that a matter of such magnitude demands! And this time we do not want smoke to be sold to us, and therefore we are not going to accept this empty amendment that has been presented between the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party (or we did not want to accept), where, despite being aware all and all of the deplorable working conditions of the workers of the residences, they simply conform with – and I quote textually – "in order for the Basque Government to continue to update the decrees regulating social benefits and services". And we wonder whether, given the situation of these workers, it is enough to continue doing what they already do, or whether you believe that this amendment satisfies, reassures or brings something to those workers and their families, or do you believe that it is appropriate to continue to avoid responding to workers who are leaving their skins to cover the deficiencies they face day after day, especially because these deficiencies are imposed by their policy. That is why we propose an update of ratios which – to put it mildly, say, politically correct – are somewhat out of date, regulated by a 1998 decree. Ratios which, in the words of the workers themselves, are absolutely insufficient and which are not even up to date with the reality of the present needs. The workers themselves were also narrating how, for example, in private agreed residences work more than a hundred hours annually than in public residences, when the service provided is the same and, therefore, the conditions of the workers should also be the same. And we would like to make it clear that the lack of resources and resources has been a constant, but not only, as some have said, during the crisis, but also before it. Because the deficiencies perceived by the users of the residences are structural deficiencies, structural deficiencies whose responsibility are the institutions and which seriously affect the users of this service. This time let us hope that this tactic which the Government sometimes uses to set aside to see if luckily the problem is happening and does not stain us very much, since we have no doubt that the working conditions of women workers in a privatized public service are also the responsibility of the public administrations themselves. And I hope that, after eight months since the adoption of Proposition No. 90/2016, in which absolutely nothing has been done, this time the voice of the workers of the residences makes them move from their armchairs. And we have no doubt that the privatization of a public service only makes the conditions of women workers worse. When a public administration privatizes a service it is clearly aware that the business benefit is undoubtedly achieved by two ways: the first way is through the saving of staff, and the second, which is closely linked to the saving of staff, is through the precariousness of the service provided to users. And from Elkarrekin We may not understand a society that puts the health and well-being of its elders in the hands of a service that is based on benefits and not on decent assistance to users. Because from Elkarrekin We cannot tolerate that workers who are suffering muscle-skeletal injuries are not recognized as casualties, because the service offered has as its sole objective the business benefit, translating this into poor working conditions and a worse service offered to our elders. And we sincerely believe that it is not barbaric that an in-depth review of the ratios be carried out to bring them into line with the needs of 2017 and not those of 1998, nineteen years ago. And we sincerely believe that it is not a barbarity that these workers want to return home with 1,200 euros after the end of the month, and have decent working conditions. It's not exactly a scandalous salary what they're suing for with justice. But what is a barbarity is to constantly find a fronton on the part of the institutions, which refuse to talk to the companies and to seek an agreement that dignifies the working conditions in this area. And we believe that we cannot allow this passiveness of the Government any longer, and that is why we are extremely pleased that we have reached an agreement today among all the parliamentary groups, but we will have to be vigilant that this agreement is actually being implemented, and that it does not go on like eight months ago. Because women workers have been on strike for eighty days, fighting for their labour rights, and, in the face of the deaf ears of the institutions, they have called every February, another twenty-five days of strike to claim decent labour rights. And for us and for us that of these companions is the best example that we must continue to fight both in the street and in the institutions, and fight until decent working conditions are achieved for all the workers. Because – and I am finishing – from Elkarrekin We can also understand that this conflict, with workers on strike for more than eighty days for decent working conditions, would be resolved if they were not women. And, as Adolfo Muñoz himself said, sometimes for institutions women are nothing but a purple sign on March 8. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u17	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u18	Thank you very much, President. We will discuss on this agenda item the accumulated initiatives presented by the EH Bildu Group and the People's Group concerning the updating of social decrees, and on the modification of staff ratios for care in centres and services for dependent persons. And, in the view of my parliamentary group, it is logical to accumulate both non-legislative proposals, since a compromise amendment was adopted in the previous legislature in the Committee on Employment, Social Policy and Housing on 29 June 2016, in a PNL on the new decree to improve the working conditions of persons working in social services, which took up the two main points of today and which referred to the subjects that have been dealt with. In this transaction, signed then by my group, Basque Socialists, Basque Nationalists and the EH Bildu group, and with the vote in favour of the PP, it was already voted in the sense of the desire to update the decrees regulating social services and services, in addition to the ratios, and that these decrees in question be drawn up with the participation of the three institutional levels, social entities in the sector, representatives of users and staff, etc. Mr Bollain, we were already on it on 29 June. That is why we tabled the amendment as a whole with the Nationalist Group, because we were already aware that it was a repetition of what our two groups had already signed in that Committee on Employment and Social Policy on 29 June last year. And that is why the compromise amendment that we have signed today goes along the line that we signed on that date, that of 29 June, but taking a step further, because it has come to the conclusion that there is also a commitment in time to present the draft of those decrees to this House within three months, in addition to the draft of the ratios, that that is one more step, and that is why we are pleased that this compromise has been reached and that there will be unanimity in the vote that will take place in this House, although the People's Group in principle has not signed it, but it is going to vote in favour. Because I think that's important, all groups are saying the same thing: we think that this is important and necessary. That is why, and as we also thought it was important and necessary in June last year, we also agreed that that would come out. The Social Services Decree is regulated by the 2008 Act, and in that decree we all know that the subjective right of access to social services of all persons who have the right to access to social services complies with the requirements of access to social services. I have already pointed out in the previous plenary that the Socialists believe that social services must be defined as the guarantors of the quality of life to which every citizen is entitled by the mere fact of being a citizen. And it must be able to do so on equal terms, without under any circumstances any discrimination in access to the exercise of that right. As your ladies and gentlemen know, the Social Services Portfolio Decree came into force on 26 December, which also establishes and collects this subjective right of citizenship, access to the social benefits and services of the Basque Health System. This means, on the one hand, that citizens have the right to access and demand such services if they meet the requirements laid down for each of them in the portfolio decree, and provided that the provision of such services is considered appropriate to meet the needs of the individual; and, on the other hand, that the competent institutions have to ensure such services in the terms in which they have been provided. It is up to the Basque Government and other institutions (deputies and municipalities) to give the answer, to take the necessary steps to ensure that they are put into operation without imbalances; to define the criteria for the deployment of the Basque System of Social Services, and the geographical distribution of the resources necessary to ensure the uniform implementation of services throughout the autonomous territory. All this is because social services are key to meeting people's needs, as well as to detecting and addressing vulnerability situations. This implies that the administrations directly responsible for the provision of each economic service or service have sufficient financial resources, places and professionals to respond to changing needs, and in particular to the demand coming from and not being met by the economic services and services of the system, whether it has been transferred to the institutions or identified by them. It is important, therefore, to define and analyse the necessary ratios of professionals working in social services, and I believe that the compromise amendment that we have signed today will take one more step to achieve this. It is up to the Basque Government (the Department of Employment and Social Policy) to lead this work in coordination with the parliaments and municipalities, with the third sector and people affected by it. That is why we have signed this compromise amendment and we agree on the need to update these decrees which regulate specific aspects, and also involve the different institutional levels. Moreover, as I have already pointed out, this deadline is set for the updating of the decree regulating social benefits and services within three months, as well as for the prioritization of the draft decree updating the ratios governing the centres and services intended for dependent persons, in order to bring them into line with the current situation, because of their impact on the quality of the service offered and on the living conditions of the persons served in these centres. And I therefore believe that the result of the effort made is good, good for the citizens, and it is going to improve and it is going to continue to deepen in compliance with the compromise amendment that we signed on 29 June last year. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u19	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Arreg. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Firstly, as almost all groups have referred to the labour conflict in Bizkaia residences, I believe it is important from the outset to demarcate this issue of the need to amend the ratio decree, and it was also demonstrated when on 29 June we approved this request for amendment to the Government, which means that the need is independent of the strike situation that may be living in Bizkaia. Moreover, the Basque Government has to regulate it for the three territories, not only for Bizkaia. I therefore believe that it is important to do so from the outset. Now, good morning, all of you, and I'd like to welcome the guests too. We had all our plans to protect the legal proposal proposed by gatherings, as we understand. On the 29th of June, 2016, the Social Party and the Eucalist Party agreed to the media of the U.S.R.s. From the introduction, he asks the Basque Mitch to fill up that deal. The fundamental initiative combines in words what was then agreed on in its justification. In the first place, there's a request for you to update the decrees that regulate social preparations and services. Thereabouts, and further on, the DESILIB, will, besides other matters belonging to personal life, regulate the functional and material conditions which these services and centers are to be performed, all inconsequentity and consistency with the establishments of the Euscal System of Social Services. At the second point, a technical section of the three institutional levels, a participation of the social entities of the sector and of the representatives of users and workers, is required to respond to new social needs and to ensure proper attention to all the people who occupy the requirements and conditions of obtaining services from the Basque System of Social Services. As I said, we were perfectly satisfied with the demands made in June 2016, and now we agree. In order to protect them, too, as the Pope Party had submitted to the Combat's initiative, the other was asking for the same thing as the other basic initiative-some slight change is visible from the editorial section, but it was essentially the same request for the Euskikon. The amendment to add Podemos was not so clear, the amendment to add to Bildu's initiative, because we believe that, taking advantage of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid, it includes aspects that have little or nothing to do with the original request, rather than very tangentially: a little the mantras of cuts, privatization to which Mr Bollain has also mentioned today... As for the non-law proposal of the People's Party, accumulating to the initiative of Bildu, our intention was also to support it, since its end fully corresponds to the original request of Bildu. So all the teams are essentially in agreement and we'll get the initiative to be unanimous. This new description, this update, will suppose the workers' working conditions to be improved. Thus we are sure that the service itself which is given will be improved; after all, it will also be for the benefit of users. As the other spokesman said, society itself has changed: he is older with what he supposes to be. The jurisdictional law has also been established since the last decree had been accepted. It is therefore necessary that a decree should be put in order to give a proper answer to all this reality, apart from the strike. All we hope is that in three months' time, the Red Munche will be admitted to the draft of the new decree and bring it here to the legislature. We are pleased, because this initiative will be adopted once again unanimously, with the Government's commitment to submit the draft of this decree to the House within three months. As Mrs Sánchez said, the compromise goes beyond what was acquired and agreed in June. To accept the rule, as I have said, is the right of the EukMUGY and is in the hands of the forums to apply the regulation in their respective jurisdictions. As some of the speakers who have spoken before me have said in Basque, the situation has changed, and much has changed since the adoption of the ratio decree in 1998. The Unit Act has come into force; our elderly people have expressed on countless occasions their willingness to remain in their environment as long as possible, an idea we share and support; life expectancy, as has also been said, has risen (our society is growing more and more). All this makes people who come to the residences today have different characteristics than they did when they came almost twenty years ago. This reality, shared by all groups, as well as by the Basque Government and the outlaws, must be reflected in the regulations governing the ratios and other issues inherent to staff, as well as the functional and material requirements to be met by these centres and services. All this – we cannot forget it – oriented, as it could not otherwise be, to ensure the well-being of the people who entered the residences. For all this, we've signed the middle course with Podemos and PSE to protect even the Popular Party. It was easy to make an arrangement, Mr. Bollain. We don't have a hard share with you, I don't know why you said that. I believe that all the other groups have made the agreement with facility, and you sign it yourself, for we all agree that men must be the axis of our actions, both those who dwell in the houses and the workers of it. And for that, we ask you to renew the proclamations to give a more direct and better answer to the reality of today. The final point of the agreement calls on the various administrations, while always respecting the autonomy of the parties and the conditions of their own procurement, to involve and ensure in public procurement for ensuring quality public services and the conditions that are worthy of the workers of these services. We are convinced and convinced that the administrations, within their competence and always respecting the conditions of contracting and the autonomy of the parties, are already complying with this request that we make to them. So we didn't have a problem getting this third new point in the middle, and we'll protect it with our votes. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Passing on the answers turn, no one wants to participate... ? The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Aguirre, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u22	I'll get to the point because we're here looking for solutions and commitments. So this is what we're asking you to do: One, that the ration should be adjusted, and that the decrees by which they are regulated should be updated, in order to give their superiors a quality of attention, and to improve the conditions of the laborers. In order to update these decrees, let the organizations of the three levels, that is to say, the fun, the almonds, and the councils, but also the agents of the third sector, because many of them are the managers of the center, and of course also the representatives of the users and workers. Third and last, we're asking you to make a mess. We ask you to have an explanation, that you may be the remunerator and pursuer of high-quality services and the worthy conditions of the labor condition of their laborers. You have to put people in the middle, and, as you say, you want to have a quality job, please be the model of it. It's just fun to have social services, and even if it's sub-contradiction, the quality has to be secured. We're making this buggy, and we've even set a deadline for three months. It's agreed, you know, and we think it's right, because this situation can't take longer, because the owners have the right to live with dignity the last few years of their lives and the workers to do their work on suitable conditions. We cannot forget that it has been eight years to implement the Social Services Act. How many more are we going to have to wait so that we can exercise our right to care, to quality care? How many years are we going to have to wait for the workers to have decent working conditions? The ratios translate into conditions of dignity. That's why we don't agree with one thing. You say the forums have been compromised. That, you see, isn't so, otherwise this would be all right. It's very basic what we're asking for. the right to rest, the honesty, the well-being, the right to rest at convenient hours. They're very physical matters, though we know that quality service is something more than that. If the rations don't fit right away, we'll hurt 11,000 grandbacks. In this request, we all agree on all sides of the legislature. We assembled EH thanks you for your attitude to our proposal. When we say we want a decent state, we're also talking about this.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Briefly, but I do not agree with you, Mrs Arregi, in part of what you have said. It is true that the modification of the decree of 98, of the ratios, must be demarcated from the strike, but it is also true that the strike takes place precisely because of the non-amendment of that decree. Because among the workers' claims is not only the salary or salary, but also the working conditions, the number of hours they have to work, the number of people they have to attend to, who are totally affected in their working conditions, and that is what has led them to strike. And the number of people who have to attend and the number of hours they have to work is closely related to the ratios that are established for the residence. Then of course it's related! That the amendment of that decree should have been made long before and that it should be made regardless of the strike or not? Totally agree. But it is true that the two matters are absolutely related. And of course it should have been done sooner! I do not like to argue when an agreement is reached, and more so in these matters where we have reached an agreement among all, but things have to be said like that. The decree is 98, it's been almost 20 years, and I think governments could have acted before. But it is that the law is of 2005, and neither has anything been done to apply that law, to give the decree of portfolio and then to develop and update decrees like this, which, as I say, are of the year 98. There was an agreement in June, and I don't know anymore... Sometimes it is said here that setting time limits does not mean that the Government will not do so even if time limits are not set, but it seems that one more step has now been taken, because there has now been a commitment to setting a time limit. It is true that in the end the issue of time limits depends on the attitude of the Government in office. Sometimes, even if you don't have a deadline... There was no deadline in June, but if there had been will it could have been prepared. It is true that there have been elections, it is true that there have been..., but the work of preparing the decree could have been carried out and, according to the new government, that in a very short time that decree could be updated. I believe that in the end it is a question not only of the agreement reached here, which is important, but of the attitude of the government itself and of the responsibility of the administrations themselves, because it is... That's what they say. "No, this issue is the responsibility of the parliament." I mean, it looks like you throw the ball at that roof. And in the Chamber when this matter has been raised they throw the ball also towards the other roof, towards that of the Basque Government: "We can do nothing, because the decree of ratios is not changed, and amending the decree of ratios is a competence of the Basque Government". I believe that it is precisely in this interinstitutional action, and above all in matters such as these, which must prevail, that we should all agree, and that all the institutions should put their grain of sand and make every effort to reach an agreement and to resolve a very important issue, because, as I say, there is the dignity of the workers, the dignity of the service, and, above all, the dignity of the elderly and dependent persons who are users of this service. And, as I say, in this case the conditions of some are absolutely related to the quality of service. It is true that the agreement has not been excessively difficult, because I believe that in this matter we were all more or less in agreement, and that when we spoke to each other in the end we were able to reach a consensus. And it is good that there is agreement on these issues, because these are really the issues that dignify politics, these are the issues that make politics great, precisely because they place at the centre what should be the objective of political action, which is to solve the problems of citizens; to put all the means to ensure that the quality of life of citizens, in whatever situation they find themselves in, is optimal. I therefore believe that the agreement on this matter is very important. But as important as the agreement is that, as has been said here, this does not remain a role, and that those who are urged, in this case to the Basque Government, and whom we have also urged from here, who are other institutions, such as the parliament, to make every effort to bring this decree up to date, to ensure that conditions and the quality of service correspond to the needs that currently exist, to ensure that the working conditions of people in these residential centres are adequate and dignified, and that – we are taking the first step in trying to resolve this strike – strikes like this, situations like this, are not repeated, because I think that being on strike does not like anyone. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u25	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. Partners. Well, I am going to reiterate a little bit what I said earlier, and I think it is very positive, that it is very good that we have reached an agreement among all the parliamentary groups, but I think we should not forget that this agreement has already been reached eight months ago, and that you have done nothing. For this reason, we will be vigilant this time so that the agreement does not fall once again into a broken sack, since we know that four eyes see better than two and that, although some carry the word "worker" by flag, it seems that they have already been more concerned by their revolving doors than by workers' rights for some decade. And, Mrs Arregi, in our view, this conflict is not independent of the updating of the ratios, nor is it independent of the welfare of our elders. If we do not care for those who care, or plot the dimensions of this proposal, we may, in our opinion, run the risk of being further equi months (eight months in this case) with this signed and doing nothing. But, well, it is legitimate for you to defend yourself in the place you occupy, as a party that supports the Government, as well as it is logical and legitimate for us and ourselves, in our place, to make the speech that we consider fair. The positive thing, however, is that, despite this, we have come to a good agreement for the people above all, for the workers and users of this service. And we sincerely believe that this is what really matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u27	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u28	Very briefly. I thought I'd step in from the seat, but in the end I decided I'd come out to the rostrum. I believe that, of course, we must welcome the agreement that we have signed today and that there is unanimity in that approach. And, as has already been said, it has been relatively easy, because it is that the EH Bildu group, the Basque Nationalist group, the Basque People's Group and Socialists have already reached that agreement and we completely agreed on 29 June when that initiative entered the committee of this Parliament. And, therefore, I obviously believe that one more step is being taken. Of course, the Basque Government could have already initiated the amendments to these decrees in this period, but we are where we are right now, and in this initiative I believe that we are taking a step further by marking it or by setting a deadline for its implementation. The development of the regulations is also agreed that it has been slow. The time has come, then, to amend it, to update those decrees, to update those ratios, and we hope, from the Socialist Group, that the deadlines for progress on this issue will be made and fulfilled. And, Mr Bollain, we have to give when we have to give, to people and to groups, but in this case there has been good harmony among all, there has been no problem in approaching each other, and coming up here to give to give to me seems silly to me. But, well, if you liked that, then... go ahead. And he's come up defending workers' rights... Look, Mr Bollain, I have been a labour inspector all my life, ensuring compliance with the rules in force and fighting for compliance with those rules and workers' rights. It is not going to give me, nor my group, the Socialist Group, any lessons in this regard. So, at least a little more quiet, because you've come up here as a very gallit, which seems that you, who have just arrived, are the only ones who have defended someone's rights. But it is not so: we have a whole story behind us defending those rights, and we are very proud of it, eh! Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u29	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. And finally, the Eubertians. Too much of a lady, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u30	Yes, thank you again, Mr. President. Yes, it's a good deal of arrangement that we're going to accept, and that puts people in the midst of the nicest, both the workers and the houses. A political agreement of these characteristics is worthy, Mrs Llanos said, because it puts people in the centre. And we share that statement. We continue to insist that the need to modify the ratio decrees, and other issues to be addressed by such an update of the decrees, is independent of the problem of the labour dispute in the Bizkaia District Council. I insist, the Government must update these decrees, which will apply in the three historical territories. In Gipuzkoa and in Araba at this time there is no labor conflict, but, so and so, they will be binding on those territories. And there is a will on the part of the Government and also of the outlaws. There are discussions between the three outlaws and the head of the Department of Social Policy in order to proceed as soon as possible with this change, this update. But even those talks, as could not be otherwise, had begun before the presentation of this initiative in Parliament, because they are all aware of the new needs that have arisen since the adoption of these decrees in 1998, and that of course they must be updated. To this end, a draft will be presented and discussed with the institutions, the three institutional levels, the sector, the people concerned or their representatives, the workers, etc. But let us know that the need for the decree is independent of what may be happening at this particular moment in Bizkaia, and also demonstrates this by the fact that in June it was also adopted unanimously by the groups then present in the commission in which it was dealt, and then there was no labor conflict in any historical territory. So thank you. And I'm really glad you made the deal today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote EH, Euskal Socialists, and together we'll have the half-direction signed by the Podemos and the Eunciators. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 75; the supporters 75; the opponents are 0; the white ones, 0; abstentions, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u32	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary group together, in order to change the criteria of being admitted to the office of the House of Houselands. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Together, Mrs. Guanche, representing the Podemos team, has the word to suggest and defend her.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u33	Hello, everyone. Thank you, Mr. President. Partners, congressmen. Today we are here to talk about the right to housing, because this Parliament in the last parliamentary term recognized the subjective right of the Basque population to have a home, but it seems that there was no time to develop in coherence the instruments to exercise that right. Exebizitza ez iziza bizitzeko lekurik ez iz iz baino askoz gehiago da. When working with homeless people we used to repeat, what a mantra, that having no home goes far beyond not having a roof, and, therefore, under this premise I want to speak here today and defend the proposition that we bring transactional. Because the right to housing is something that goes beyond the recognition that on paper this law has given to the citizenry, and because if we do not care for and recognize this right to the whole population we will be cheating on the lonely, but, and above all, we will be cheating on the citizenry. We know the difficulties involved in passing a law, and in fact I am sure that we will have the opportunity to live it first hand in this legislature, because the need for dialogue is present and is seen in agreements such as we have reached today. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the generosity of the other groups that have been able to complement our original proposal to give it a broader view and to guarantee citizen participation in generating consensus in the development of the regulations. According to the presentation made publicly by the Basque Housing Service-Etxebide, people are important to the Basque Housing Service. It says, textual: "The clients are, first of all, the citizens who have housing needs and concerns and the right to see their demand resolved." That is why we want to start today by drawing attention to something that is important to us. The Basque Housing Act stipulates that the purpose of the Act is to comply with article 47 of the Constitution and article 10.31 of the Statute of Self-Government. Both recognize both the competence of this Government and the right of the population of the State and of Euskadi to have decent and adequate housing, as well as the responsibility of the public authorities in the provision and coverage of this right. This law also recognizes that they will be subject to the law – let me quote textual – "all persons with administrative neighbourhoods in any municipality of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi", who also "have the right to enjoy decent, adequate and accessible housing, defined in accordance with the parameters set out in Article 1". Article 1 defines, in order for all of us to be situated, three sections which have to do with ensuring that housing guarantees stability, dignity and privacy, recognizing the legal right to both occupation and use; recognizing also that housing must be adequate for persons subject to law, and must meet conditions established by law as to the adequacy of housing in terms of health and in dignified and safe conditions. Thus, at no point in any section do we recognize two issues that we in Elkarrekin are extremely concerned about, not with the law anymore, but with respect to implementation. The first of the issues, which is not directly related but which indirectly recognizes the amendment we are making today, refers to the need to recognize this right as an advance on the subjective rights already recognized for the population. And it does so because those who today are subject to the right to the income guarantee and receive the supplementary housing benefit with this law should be more and better protected, but nowadays it seems that they are not recognized, or do not enter, or even run the risk of taking a step back. The second, which does have to do directly with the motivation that leads us to present this proposal, is the need for the Basque Housing Service-Etxebide to adapt its operation to the current regulations and not apply a filter that in practice leaves out many people with extreme and urgent housing needs. I will stop to underline this point, because we believe it is important. The instruments that channel the exercise of the right are not innocent, and when we recognize a right by linking it to those instruments, and those instruments empty the conditions of the subjects to exercise the right, we are wrong. I know it sounds like a job, but good. We recognize from Elkarrekin We can say that the Basque Housing Law is a law that deserves a lot of respect, it is a very interesting work, and we understand that with its total deployment it will provide more and better resources, more and better rights to the Basque population, but we are concerned about the application of the law. We are concerned that the gateway to recognition of this right, Etxebide, a Basque housing service that people bet, leaves them out when they can access. Because, today, people who do not have at least 3,000 euros of annual income cannot be targeted at Etxebide and are therefore not recognised as subject of law with existing mechanisms. Therefore, what the Housing Act 3/2005 says ("The right to housing and its effective realization facilitate and enable human beings to attain a dignified life"), would not be guaranteed in the case, for example, of people in severe situations of social exclusion, homeless people. The homeless, who I hope will agree with me, are members of Basque society who have an inescapable and unquestionable need for housing. People whose absence from home prevents them from moving forward in the other dimensions of poverty and who are therefore anchored and forced to remain in social exclusion until we understand that their right to housing is equal to that of the rest of the population, and until we are able to look at it, dignify its demands and also defend its interests. Because another of the requirements of the Basque Housing Service to facilitate registration in Etxebide, an indispensable step to access the subjective right, today is the registration, and I again put on the table the conditions of those homeless people in Euskadi, because there are them, and you certainly know it. Because there are at least 1,500 people counted, in data that do not vary despite the biannual counts that are being made: 1,500 people with an absolute need for housing, who are not recognized and who, as they live on the street, many do not even have access to the padrón even though they live all their lives in Euskadi. What do you, Members of this Parliament, mean by Basque citizenship? Just the one who's had the luck and the opportunity to have a life with the minimums covered? We are clear that those who have not had those opportunities, those that occupy the last of the spaces of this society, those that by the setbacks of life have ended up sleeping on the street, should be the priority subject of our work and be guaranteed by all the laws and by the action of this Government. And that is why we understand that the objective of the Housing Act will not be complete until the tools contemplate the casuistics and the right of access on equal terms to all people; which, in our opinion, with the current regulation of Etxebide today is impossible. But I see, it is not just homeless people who could not have access to the subjective right to housing. What about young Basques? What's going on? We all make our speeches a flag, guaranteeing the emancipation and opportunities of young people, but then we do not take into account their difficulties in gaining access to housing, in order to be able to point out in Etxebide as a fundamental step. Young people who are condemned by precariousness to live with their families to a much older age than many people would like, who are condemned by precariousness to leave their homes not out of will, but out of necessity. Young people whose chances of starting a vital project of their own undoubtedly pass by enhancing their access to housing, but, with the current regulation of Etxebide, as much recognition as the law gives, will not be able to exercise it. Because also in 2012 Etxebide modifies the fact that people in an irregular situation remain out of the possibility of reporting as applicants for housing, and it is therefore complicated that, being more than 50% of the population in a situation of sinhogarism in the Autonomous Community, they are now subject to the law. In this house we make statements that recognize the rights of those who are not seen, the most vulnerable, who are not even recognized in the Aliens Act. We're not recognizing them, we're obviating them. I know that it may be unprofitable for me to come up here to defend the right of those who do not have papers to exercise their right to vote or their right to housing, but I am proud to live in an autonomous community that recognizes that the Aliens Act, which obliges many people not to exist, gives them space as citizens who are, because they live here, and I do not want that to change. I really don't want to. Maybe I'm illusory, maybe I'm selfish, maybe in Elkarrekin we can be inexperienced and we want everything, but that's the way it is. If we recognize the right of the Basque population to enjoy a right, we must recognize it to everyone who lives here, not only to whom we can vote. But in any case, and apart from concrete examples of non-acceding groups, we understand that to be proud to exercise our powers, to make this law a flag, we need it not to be empty. We need citizens, the old and the new, to be able to exercise their right on a day-to-day basis. In conclusion, today we are presenting a compromise amendment with the parties that promoted this law in which we commit ourselves and bet on citizenship, for a full and free exercise of rights. Because this proposal recognizes that in order to give effect to this right, it is essential to take into account the percentage of the population that is operating outside Etxebide; because it also recognizes the right to housing as a right to be considered for the whole population in an integral way and in accordance with the existing rules, both in the area of housing and social protection; and, finally, because it recognizes that the effective right to housing requires that the Basque housing service be adapted to the needs of the Basque population and that people be placed in the centre. This reality cannot go any further than the participatory evaluation of collectives and users in the course of the service, and the consensual proposal for reforms of the aspects that are currently not working properly. Therefore, we urge the realization of a participatory process that will culminate in nine months in the development of the regulatory decree on access to the subjective right to housing under the law, to collaborate with Etxebide to guarantee that right, and all this with the guarantee that those who are subject today do not take any steps back. We have come to the institutions to ensure that all people are recognized, and that is about finding agreements and keeping a high eye on issues such as today's, which mean putting the priorities of the population in line with the priorities of the Government. We don't want an empty house, and if they can't make a decent house, we'll protect them and help them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Ottagon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. We have now a dispute on one of the most important laws which have been admitted in the law of the past, about the rules necessary for the development of the Housing Law; in particular, the subjective right of executing a decent and well-conditioned apartment, and the new economic preparation of the House in relation to the development of the rule. After all, in the middle of the middle term we have agreed on, we were willing to assure ourselves of the arrangement in the shortest possible time and the most appropriate conditions. And we are confined to this, though this other proposition, as the parliamentary Podemos has been presented by the parlamentary group of Podemos, was concerned with the measures of being admitted to the records of the Houseland Office. We all know that the law of Housing 3/2015 acknowledges and regulates the subjective right to act as a housing. But in order to claim that right, some conditions must be fulfilled, one of which is registered at the Basque Office of Houseland. It seems to us that this condition is absolutely logical, of course, but we find ourselves in a difficulty in giving the name of the register mentioned. The condition or criterion which ought to be executed regulates the 15th of October 2012, and hurts certain exact collective orders, which are left out of the weakest condition. Mrs. Guanche mentioned it earlier than I did. On the one hand, we have a property in possession, and we have those who are involved in a separation or separation process. Besides this, we are particularly concerned with women who are the victims of machista violence, who are obliged to leave the apartment, who will not be able to name the register until they are a capital divorce agency. Or, even if we've got a house in possession of a process of homeless property that couldn't have registered to the register until it's completely lost. We have, as well as those who have been obliged to leave the house under property, for instance, by natural ruin. And we have, and these care especially for us, who, though they live amongst us, yet find themselves in an irregular state, because they have not the licenses of redemption in force. So it is plain that this order must be changed. To these and many others, there is no doubt but a convenient way out is to be given. But here we shall find another question, because many and many have difficulty in evading them. And that the access to those who have the most difficulty to be taken to ease, it must be allowed to prove the danger, that they may be allowed to reach subjective rights. It is known, unfortunately, that, in the presence of the law, we are not all alike, and that many men are connected with a particular legislation which is excluded from their rights, and which renders them negative in their lives. In the Organic Law of Foreigners, and in the Decree, 2393/2004 King, there is the concept of RATION, taken in the execution of it. As for the situation of life, he receives special means of abode, of romance, of redemption, where the conditions and contrivances required to prove the temporal root and social romance are defined. When a stranger wants to ask for a residence and a work permit by special circumstances, he will be able to ask for a romance report, which will allow him to see that he has acquired enough degree of socialization. Since the New Rule of the Law concerning Foreign Rights and Liberty had been introduced, the EukMork had assumed a new rights, and consequently a romance was made by the Department of Elegant and Polylytic Society. It is not, therefore, a new concept of romance, for it is useful in other matters. So why not get to the subjective rights of the housing? We wanted to put this discussion on the table and we'll be able to get this discussion now. For at the first point of this other proposition, as we have mediated, the decree which regulates the possibility of reaching the subjective rights received by the Housing Act will be drawn within an active process, in which we shall have the opportunity of considering all these sensibilities and cavites, and agreeing with the proper rule as well as we can. At the first point of correction, we wanted to mark three months' due to the fun of winning, but if you want to do it with the guarantee of a involvement process, we've been informed that this will is short three months. So we'll take nine months' time. But it's not the first time that I've been asked to do this for you, because on April 14th, 2016, we agreed to another proposal, which was discussed by Euskal Socialists in a parlamentary group. And then we want to make a special mention to the accepted person, who, at the second point of this other proposal, is expressly referred to him. We wish to remind ourselves that in the legislation which has passed, the other proposition was brought about by the noise of this decree. At his first place he was asked to "make sure that the development of June 3/2015th Law of Hooli will be respected as a whole by the construction of the law, which is a right to maintain the right to maintain in a stable manner the right to the people who have no economic means to acquire a house, and in a subsidary way by economic preparation." Let it be so in the rule which is now to be developed, as if it were accepted here. And his two, three, four, and five. on the other hand, it was fun that the decree of regulating the subjective right to act as a decent and suitable housing should take care of several things, such as the supplementary preparation and integration of the new economic preparation in the apartment which is planned, and not the mere substitute for each other. Even before we assign a economic preparation, let's make sure that the family or socialized units are placed in the housing of the house where you're managed. And as a hired apartment solicitor to the register, let antiquity be three years old. Or what concerns the duties of the rent. We have here confirmed these petitions in this medium which we have agreed to, and these must be considered in this new rule. And in the end, the Eucabertians and Sociaists of Eukalia, who have been received in the correction of the whole community by parlamentary groups, and which we have kept in the middle of the line, we would like to make a remark on what we have maintained. Correction ends with: "In terms of April 2016." I'll read to you the last two points of the average. The sixth point said: The U.S.A. wants him to do a specific research for three months, about the action of the Housing Act in Euskal Society. And the seventh point was: "Eusko Lawdun wants to make a plan in three months' time, to spend as soon as possible on a social lease as the 30/20th Law of housing has been abandoned for more than a year or more." As far as I know, nothing like that has been done. And because this is the parlamentary team that suggested this because it's in the government today, specifically in the management of the Housing Department, I don't think it's likely to be difficult for him to carry this along. So, with your correction, I'll end up as well: Make sure you're satisfied with the terms you're given by this GUGU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u36	Thank you, Madam Mount. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u37	Thank you, ma'am. Chiefs of departments, congressmen, all good days. Let me begin my speech by showing my deepest satisfaction. And it's no less, believe me. Who was going to tell us, almost two years ago, when this very Parliament was debating the adoption of the Housing Act with enthusiasm, with ardour (the enthusiasm and ardour I say it for those who were convinced of the need to pass this law), that such a day as today, and unanimously, would be present to urge the Government to develop the regulatory decree that recognizes the subjective right to housing and, therefore, the right to access it! Who was going to tell us!, especially considering that two groups here today also at that time opposed frontally to the recognition of housing as a vital necessity today, and that today they are going to support this transaction. But I don't want to get misinterpreted. The Basque Socialists do not look to the past with reproach. We look at it from the point of view of what we have been able to move forward in consensus. For us it is a political satisfaction that justifies the work of our party, but who will be served most is precisely those citizens who are going through the worst. I sincerely believe that with this compromise we have carried out an exercise of wisdom and responsibility, modulating the initial proposal, which is clearly well-intentioned, and giving way to a proposal that is in line with the reality that will continue to keep us at the forefront in this area. Let me, therefore, also welcome, while I show my satisfaction, the arduous task that each and every member of Parliament here stands before us. Because I suppose – and correct me if I am wrong, that one is very wrong – that from today, and after this step that I consider to be fundamental and important, we will have the active collaboration of each and every parliamentarian in the task of completing all the regulatory development, which is not a small thing, and that gives real effect to this law. A law that – I will not tire of saying this – was one of the most important milestones of the last legislature, no doubt, but which, however, did not cease to be the culmination of a work that began long before. Paradoxes of life, it will be precisely the same socialist councillor who began with the task of drafting the Housing Law, Councilor Iñaki Arriola, who is also responsible for initiating the extensive task of developing all the regulatory development of the same. I hope that at the end of this term we can show our satisfaction that we have achieved that goal. But let's go through parts, chapter by chapter, step by step, but with firm step. The Basque Socialists have always defended the constitutionality of the Housing Act, and we do so not by whim, but by mere conviction and responsibility. Yes, out of responsibility for the fulfilment of that constitutional requirement reflected in Article 47 of the Magna Charter, which says that of "All Spaniards have the right to enjoy decent and adequate housing. The public authorities will promote the necessary conditions and establish the relevant rules to give effect to this right, regulating the use of soil in accordance with the general interest to prevent speculation", which is precisely what we are in today. The development of the regulatory decree on access to the subjective right to housing is undoubtedly, together with the recognition of that right itself, the fundamental basis of this law. It is a first step in which the subsequent decrees that will regulate more than forty subjects will be established; a development that the department of the Arriola councillor has planned, as will also be approved by this House through this transaction, within the framework of an open, plural participatory process, and which will also serve to collect and recognize as many casuistics and sensibilities as possible. It is also not new for the socialist councillor, as it was precisely through a participatory process such as the Social Pact for Housing in 2010, and also, let us not forget, as the first draft of the Lehendakari Government Housing Act Patxi López was drafted. It is no less important that today this House will unanimously support the fact that the regulatory decree before us today is drawn up on the basis of the terms approved by Parliament in April last year, and that it will also be done without any cuts, either in terms of requirements or in terms of amounts, with regard to the rights already recognized to date. I believe that I am not mistaken if I say that today we are giving the definitive backing to the Housing Act, a law driven – I am not tired of it – by the Basque socialists, but also with the support of the parliamentary groups EH Bildu and UPyD, personified in Bixen Itxaso, Marian Beitialarrangoitia and Gorka Maneiro (I think it is fair to say it and recognize it today here), in order to pass that law, with harsh criticism, by half plus one of that House. In this regard, it seems to me fair to highlight your work, as I think it is important to look back and see all that we have managed to move forward so that today we approve, through this compromise, what we are going to approve. The importance of this vote is that today there is no group that questions what was questioned just a few months ago: that the right to enjoy decent housing is a vital necessity for the human being, and that therefore this law, with its corresponding regulatory development completed, will be comparable to the laws that guarantee the right to health, public education or social protection. Interestingly, in the achievement of all these social conquests we have been the socialists, among other things because they are part of our raison d'être, whether we are in the government or we are in opposition. Today, as I said, we are taking an important, fundamental, necessary but not definitive step. This regulatory decree, as I said, must be followed by others of greater or lesser complexity, but equally necessary to make the Housing Act a tool of progress, a real right. The recognition and regulation of the subjective right to housing will be followed by other regulatory developments, such as the cataloguing of uninhabited dwellings and the regulation of their temporary use, for example. Although all this will certainly also depend on the Constitutional Court, before the appeal filed by the Government of Mariano Rajoy, understand, like us, that it is not a matter of attacking any right to property, but of giving a social function to which it exists and whose owner does not use. I therefore hope and hope that, just as today, we will be able to agree on the fundamentals: to understand access to housing as a right, as a guarantee that the people of this country will have a more dignified life. I hope that this understanding will be the dominant focus in the near future, and that regulatory development will enable us to make this law a useful, pioneering, avant-garde tool to be proud of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u38	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians. Mrs. Beragon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u39	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. I have for the first time been brought to this tribe by another proposition, which has been introduced in the direction of the House of Podemos, and I cannot deny the uneasiness of the first period. And this is the first time that we have brought the subject of the housing into discussion in this legislation, and I am glad that we have made the consent of all the groups. And I'd like to put that in value. People are important to us, too. I'd say we're the most important person in the world, and that we all have a right to a decent life, and that it's necessary to have a decent apartment. In this legislation, no doubt, the maintenance and development of the Housing Law will be one of the greatest challenges of this legislature, and the development of that subjective right which the law has declared, and which is necessary for all such regulations. I'm glad to have agreed to you in that half-direction to-day, to develop a decree which will regulate this subjective right during the nine months to come, and to open a process of participation in this matter, that everyone who has anything to say may have a chance of giving their opinions and agreeing with the greatest agreement. But I don't want to mention that in your initial proposal you were asking me to remove the order of the building, and, although we haven't received it in this half-way agreement, I believe he has his interest, and, as Madame Ottagratius has said, we shall be able to discuss these matters. I don't think the plan could have been too correct. We should say that this command is naturally of a lesser degree of rule, because several other laws are conditioned by its contents, and that since the Housing Law was admitted, as well as that law. I think you wanted to report it, or criticize it, because there are so many people outside, especially the state of strangers. It is true that we have the entire jurisdiction of the house in our autonomical autonomium, but not of the immigrations, and the persons who come from without receive the Spanish States, not us. And so many rights are derived from it, and there is an obstacle in it. The 2/2000 law which regulates foreign rights has undergone a variety of changes, and in a change in the year 2009, which had access to housing services and which did not regulate them, narrowed certain predicted rights. It is essential to have independence in order to have access to various services, and to the rights or services of the housing, and this is the order of 2012, which was required to remove from you. I think, as I said before, we'll have a chance to discuss it. But at this moment, though we would have liked, as in many other matters, to have our jurisdiction on the matters of immigration, it is not so, unfortunately, and therefore we are conditioned by what the Spanish law regulates, as well as by rights. However, I must tell you that MUDY has gone beyond it, beyond what this law can allow or make it possible, because even foreigners who have once a permanent residence permit have a right to ask for a rental housing. As I said before, I think we bring the matter of the housing to this tribe for the first time, which is so important. And since we have made an agreement, we ought to put it in value, and set it up as a foundation to work hereafter. I think there's another thing we all care about: When the law of the housing regulates and acknowledges the subjective right, first it is a right which ought to be satisfied by giving it a house, but if it were not possible, it ought to be made by a preparation. That's where I think they're going to crash, or perhaps we're supposed to combine them with that contribution to the housing which is previously acknowledged as a subjective right, and that subsidy which is to be given to the person who has a subjective right to give a place. And perhaps this was the origin of the most doubt and contradiction in the development of the decree of subjective right in the law which has passed. I don't know if we can solve that problem by the order that's meant to be done: between these two preparations regulated or regulated one another's life. For my part, I think it might be the best thing to do, but it is true that we ought to do well, because many people who now acknowledge this right may be liable to avoid the system. So, in conclusion, I'd like to applaud the agreement that we've made. I hope I've put a good foundation on this agreement, and I'm going to work on it again and make a lot more arrangement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to you all again. Well, as some representatives said here too, we again discussed the Housing Act. And understand me, because, as here everything has to be said carefully, that it has been discussed before does not mean that we cannot discuss it again, and whenever necessary. But what I want to say is that we already warned when this law was passed that there were dysfunctions in it, and that, therefore, we were going to continue to debate to achieve that goal that is common to all, that it is not exclusive to some, as sometimes they want to make some groups appear, that only some defend housing and that others do not defend it. Well, I think we all agree with the statement, which is also contained in the non-law proposal, of the importance of housing, that all citizens can exercise the right and must exercise the right to housing, and its role as a condition for other rights and as an instrument for a dignified life. Because, Mr Andueza, we did not question that Basques had to have access to housing; what we questioned when this law was passed was that through it it could be guaranteed, because it was born with large doses of legal uncertainty, and because part of the postulates contained there were not true. We also believe that Basques must have the right to access to housing (this is a constitutionally recognized right), and that it is up to the public authorities to satisfy them, and therefore they must put all the instruments in place to make it effective. But in the proposal..., that is why we did not present an amendment to the initiative and we were going to vote negatively at the outset, because it contained some hints that should be nuanced, and that I believe that through the proposal, as articulated, it would not be achieved. It is said that care should be taken for those persons who are operating out of Etxebide. But, of course, then you don't say what is meant by functioning. What is left out by operation?, that do not meet the requirements? It should be noted that, however much it is said that this law guarantees the universal right to housing, this is not the case. The law establishes a number of requirements for the realization of this right, and, under the law, those who do not meet these requirements will not be able to access that right which the law recognizes. So, we did not understand what was proposed with this proposal. That the law isn't enforced? That it does not meet the requirements that the law requires? We may agree that the requirements are to be amended and that the requirements referred to do not appeal to some groups, but then it would be appropriate to amend the law to modify those requirements, not to skip the law. It is also evident from the initiative that this right must be addressed to everyone who resides here, without making any further specification; for all, regardless of their administrative situation. And it is also called for the repeal of the 2012 order, so as not to exclude people in an irregular situation from the Etxebide registry. Regardless of whether or not we agree with that right in any administrative situation in which the complainant is present, the issue has its origin – and as has also been said here – in which a number of dysfunctions occurred with the passing of the law. Prior to the adoption of the law, three years of registration in the Basque Country was required for access to the supplementary housing allowance of 250 euros, as was the case for income guarantee income. After the adoption of the Housing Act, this is primarily the priority of delivering housing in order to satisfy that right of accommodation, and only in the event that there is no public housing will such economic benefit be paid, although the requirements in this case, it is true, are different from that of the supplementary housing benefit: they are the requirements for access to Etxebide-Vasco Housing Service. According to this, four years are proposed as a housing claimant in order to be able to access it, or to the economic benefit (one more, therefore, as I said, of those which were intended for registration), and also required a residence permit in Spain. That's why foreigners in an irregular situation were left out. It is asked..., we understand that what is asked, although it is not said here, what is intended in the proposal is an amendment to the Housing Act so that this subjective right is guaranteed to all people without distinction. However, it should be noted that those who supported the law, those who supported the law, did not understand it that way. They understood that a number of requirements should be met for access to housing. Moreover, the law itself also provided for a staggering of the persons who would be able to access the house; it was not direct, from the very first moment of its approval, to all. It is not, as was intended to be sold, an unlimited right, but, as I say, the fourth transitional provision established that right in a step-by-step manner and with the requirements of Articles 7 and 9. We said that at that time, and that was one of the reasons we gave when we did not support this law: that it is not enough for the right of access to housing to be recognized as a subjective right; that it is necessary to have sufficient budgetary resources, because, if not, it would generate many frustrations. EH Bildu notes in his amendment that the census is the determining factor for the recognition of the right to housing, and goes further: then he says that for those who have difficulty accessing the census, it is the criterion for accessing that right. But they also do not clarify what should be understood by rooting out, and it is a term that can be subjective and that can bring large doses of legal uncertainty. But it's just that, more than that, as has been said here, they were some... Not the proponent, who is true that it was the Socialist Group, who brought as a proposal of law a failed bill of Mr Arriola... How many times did I ask him, in the legislature in which he was a housing counselor, when he was going to bring the law, but, of course, that was like a viacrucis, which had all the possible stations, and then, in the end, in four years..., in three years, forgiveness, which was what lasted the legislature of Mr Lopez, it was not possible to bring the law, and it was brought as a proposal of law in the previous legislature, with close collaboration... Because then, in the end, much of the amendments were almost more directed by Bildu than by the Socialist Group itself, and then with Mr Maneiro's approval to get that half plus one. Then much of the paternity of that law (or motherhood, call it whatever you want) is shared between Bildu and the Socialist Party, and yet Bildu at that time, when he passed the law, did not say that it had to be a right for all regardless of any administrative situation, nor did he use the root, but approved what was provided for in article 7, article 9, and that that right would apply, as I say, with the steps set out in the fourth transitional provision. You see what I was telling you at first. You've been very happy, Mr. Andueza. Yet, a year and a year later, the proponents themselves or the parents themselves of the law are not happy with it, and they already want to change it and change all the requirements. I think it could be said that the proposal here seems to replace the roles for everyone by housing for everyone, that I believe it is something we could agree on by all political groups, but that then it requires having sufficient financial resources to make it effective. And it is true that that law contained a lot of motto, a lot of proclamation, but then applying the law would bring about its dysfunctions and consequences, as you can see. And you said that you were pleased that we were going to adopt this amendment. Obviously, we are respectful of the law. That we do not agree with it, that we vote against it, does not mean that, once it has been adopted, it must not be implemented, and that the decrees that are necessary for the development of that law must not be made. Like what is asked here (not what was requested in the original initiative, but in the amendment that you have finally agreed to) is precisely that, to develop that law, respecting a number of requirements, we are going to vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u42	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Entering the turn of answers, the representative of the Podemos, Mrs. Guanche, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u43	Well, kaixo again. Forgive me today if my brain isn't the most agile, I have a very serious lock, but I'm going to try to respond to everything. The original proposal is true that it was looking for something concrete and it is true that it is drawn up, but, in my opinion, it is drawn up for a greater purpose. And I don't think I'm going astray when all the parties in this House are going to vote in favour, but, well, maybe the vote will be reconsidered now here in the five minutes that we have left. In any case, and at the time when a debate is taking place, in my opinion, we may have to think more about it than we have in that agreement, because we do not have a monopoly on people's opinions, and perhaps, as in their day after the law there were social groups who surprised us by some deficits or problems that were not recognized, perhaps this time we will have it again. I remain with the positive of the opportunity to build among all and with all, with citizenship as well, a better law. Of course, a better development of the decree. In any case, I find it curious, ladies and gentlemen, that your speeches focus on criticizing our change with regard to the original proposal. Correcting is wise, building in common is always better, several heads always think better than a... I'll take that! Now, if you want us to go to everyone to defend their own and not move from there, we will have a somewhat more boring legislature, especially for the citizenry. In any case, and I am curious, as well as painful, that there is a paragraph, ladies and gentlemen, a paragraph on people in an irregular administrative situation, and yet we have focused the debate there. Mrs Llanos, from your group I expected no less, but I am surprised; I am surprised above all because I think it is a debate that does not touch at the moment. Perhaps I was wrong to mention people in an irregular administrative situation, but I think we should mention it. Because I, of course, agree, that, although it does not pursue the same original objective that we had on the table, it does pursue a broader one, which I hope we will reach and with which I hope we can build more and better, since we have a lot of time ahead of us. But above all, I am left with the fact that we defend citizenship rights. You said at the end of your speech, Mrs Llanos, that you can agree with the papers for all, and, frankly, I have hallucinated. I agree and I agree, and we'll see in the speech... That's what I understand. I started the speech by apologizing because I'm in the flu and I may have misunderstood it, but I heard you say that. In any case, with what I do stay and what I will defend throughout this legislature, without doubt for a moment and without moving a bit from where I am, it is with the rights for all, for all people. I have no doubt about this. I know what the concept of citizenship we defend in Elkarrekin Podemos, and with that flag we will do our job from here on out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. From EH, Madam Mount, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u45	Thank you. First of all, I want to thank you, because I haven't had a chance for the first time. We'd thank the Pomos team together, and at first we'd find out that we'd come to a halfway agreement. But I'm grateful for the predominance you've shown Mr. Aduza and Madame Irune. Madam Llanos, there is everything in this life to improve, and of course this law (you hear me not, but I speak to you). And the romance is not so strange. As I have said, in the Organic Law of Foreigners, in 2004, it is already received, and when the Spanish Government has done massive regularizations, those who have been able to prove the shooting may regulate their situation. The concept, then, is not new, and we will consider this process of participation, I am sure, that this new conception of the argument or of the romance, as you have said. Mr. Donalza, of course you'll be willing to help us in the training of rule. We have always been in the development of the law, in the legislation that has passed, in the same discussion, and in the process of borrowing. Therefore, this time also, we shall know that in our treatment of rule we shall have our contributions beside us, in order to do as best we can. Let me tell you, do not take it amiss-and with this intention, that we have a tremendous work before us in the development of the Unhappiness of the law, and, although we have a number of receipted accounts of the law, we have something to do. For example, creating a autonomous organization that would be the purpose of raising all the public and organizations in the housing area, or creating a publicless housing record. And, by the way, we'll have to do something about this resource, won't we? As always, setting the state limits. How long do we allow the state to limit them? Madam de Beresila, you have said that we have no jurisdiction in the matters of immigration, as you mention that the State of Spain imposes boundaries on us in this case. This time, too, the lack of jurisdiction is very evident. It is time for us to pass this frame and hold all hands in all its parts. That's what we're also going to be traveling with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u46	Thank you, Madam Mount. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u47	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs Llanos, you have started by saying – do not laugh – that they did not deny the right to access to a home. I remind you that the first point of the agreement that was adopted by this Parliament in April 2016, the first point said: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to ensure that the regulatory development of Law 3/2015 of 18 June on Housing" – open to the ears – "will respect in its entirety the spirit of it, which is nothing other than that of guaranteeing the right to access to the stable legal occupation of decent and adequate housing to those people who lack the necessary economic resources to obtain one, and, subsidiaryly, by means of economic benefits". You voted no. You voted no. But, I have said this in my first speech, that it is not a reproach. I am deeply pleased that months later you recognize that right, and I welcome you, because I believe it is an important step forward in the realization of a real right such as housing law, a right recognized by the Constitution, as I also said in my first intervention, in article 47. I am therefore pleased that today you have defended the need to recognize the subjective right to housing. I don't have any complex to recognize that, obviously, there was very good agreement with EH Bildu in passing the law, and I don't have any complex to say it. We signed it, we agreed, we agreed, and we took it forward. Half plus one, with Mr. Maneiro's help, too. Finally, I believe that this is an important step forward, a step that we should not be blushing at, but quite the contrary, which we should be proud of. Therefore, for my part no one complex in recognizing that it was worked from the most absolute loyalty, as I hope it will continue to be done from now on. And you said, "You ended up a little less than EH Bildu's phagocytized: housing for all." No, no, Not housing for everyone. Housing for the one who really needs it. So that then we don't find ourselves in the newspaper with casuistics that blush not only to society, but to the entire political class. Housing for the one who really needs it. It is true that the participatory process, Mrs Otamendi, is approved in this transaction, or we will approve it through this transaction. It is no less true that it was introduced into the transaction because, in contact with the Government itself, it was the Government itself that suggested the idea of incorporating it, as it was within its intentions. And I think this is a point that really enriches not only the transaction, but the very process of drawing up the regulation, because I think that there will be an opportunity to debate and to collect, as the transaction itself said, different sensibilities. The points adopted in April 2016, 6 and 7 are not exactly criteria, but mandates that I hope and wish to see reviewed as far as possible thereafter. I think we need to be realistic and possible. There is a law that we may like more, we may like less or we may not like anything; that we will have to comply with it as soon as it remains in force, but I believe that through that process, as I said, we will have the opportunity to know the casuistics and to be able to move forward. And I agree with both the spokesman of Podemos and with you, and I believe that, in the end, we must review the requirements, update them, modulate them and make them, as far as possible, effective to deal with the maximum number of cases that are put on our table. To some casuistics we can answer, and to others, unfortunately, no. But we will have to be objective and possible. For what? Precisely for what I said earlier to Mrs Llanos: to enable all those who need a home and who cannot access it to have the right to access it, either directly through a rental home, or through a subsidy or a supplement. Therefore, as I said earlier, I believe that we have a very important task, and that we should not look back at other administrations, because I believe that there is no administration that has put on the table as avant-garde and courageously a housing law as ours. In fact, there are many things that have been demanded here today – and I am finishing – and that there are no other administrations, not even the municipal government of Madrid and Barcelona, that have put them as a requirement. Therefore, let us continue to work loyally, sincerely, to, as I said at first, make this law a truly useful and possible tool to help those people who need it most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u48	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians. Mrs. Beragon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u49	As I said before, I wanted to make an arrangement, and you told me, Mrs. Guanche, that I had just taken another matter just like the axis of my speech. I didn't want to leave you outside what you asked for in your original proposal, and I didn't guess anything. Zure hasierako propose, "ensure the access of individuals, regardless of their administrative situation, to existing subjective rights. He excluded people in an irregular situation from the register of housing claimants." Eta hori hartu dut hari bezala, huta ére, gure eskumen missing hemendik salatzeko; éta eskatzeko, Otamendi anderek esan two bezala. Horretan jakina bidelagun izango garela. Ez ezazu zalantzarik izan. And it's true that our team didn't protect this law during the previous legal law, but it's true, too, that in half a minute after the fact that the Chief Toñan Group had made the law, and that, as far as he was concerned, he'd promised to do it. It can't be another way. But I think we all have the deficiencies to confess. And it is not a chance that in June 2015 the law should be admitted, and in the April of 2016, in another proposition of the law to correct certain privations in this parliament. Then again, what I said before. Let's applaud the agreement we made today, so let's take it as a basis. We must content ourselves with the law, and, if necessary, we must correct the privations which it contains, and correct them in this decree, which ought to be made to develop the subjective right (in fact, as has been agreed on, with all the agents that have something to say in these matters, which will be agreed upon.) And above all what we have already mentioned, and what Mrs. Llanos also said: but at the present day the number of three years is sufficient to be allowed for this preparation, and the number of four years is made to be a house. Let us correct these things, and let us not leave them, confessing rights, some persons who have confessed them outside the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Otamendi, the issue is not only whether the root is more or less legally defined, and it is easier or more difficult than other criteria. The issue is that when you passed the Housing Act, you did not use rooting as a requirement for access to housing. That is a criterion they have used later. Mr Andueza, if we were not against the law, that anyone who did not have economic resources had the right to have access to housing! Not at all. What we were saying was that there was no need for that demagogic proclamation made in that law, which seemed that the solution of all housing problems in Euskadi would disappear from the moment of the recognition of housing as a subjective right that could be claimed from Basque institutions. And what I was saying to him was that, no matter how much complaint was made, if it was not accompanied by the relevant economic funds, it would generate many frustrations. And that there were also many dysfunctions in the law, in addition to being against a number of other issues that were then proven, because the Constitutional Court, well, has admitted the suspension of certain articles, because they totally contradict the Constitution. This is not a question of reopening the debate on the Housing Act, but there were many issues on which we were opposed. Mrs. Berasaluze, don't trap me in solitary. I believe that you always use the same resource: "No, we cannot include foreigners in an irregular situation because they are in a regular or irregular situation depending on the Government of Spain." First of all, you don't say (if you want, we debate about foreigners, because I have no fear of debate), you never say what foreign policy you would employ if you had the competition, because it is much better to be quiet, right?, and move within the limits of the politically correct. As in so many other issues, one blames Madrid, and that's it. But don't cheat on me in solitary! Whether an alien is in a regular or irregular situation depends on Spanish legislation, but whether a person in a regular or irregular situation is admitted to the Etxebide register, that depends on it. If you put it in a regular situation, it is true that being in a regular situation depends on Spanish legislation, but you can perfectly say that, whether you are in a regular or irregular situation, all people can access Etxebide. So don't cheat on me in solitary, and don't slip away with the argument that it's Madrid's fault, that in this it's not worth the fact that it's Madrid's fault. And, Mrs. Guanche, I didn't say "papers for everyone." I repeat the same thing to you again: I can discuss with you about foreigners whenever you want, and I am not going to move on politically correct, because I believe that the reception capacity of a country, the reception capacity of Spain, is limited, and that the paper policy for all can look very good in Vista Alegre, but then applying it already changes. And you tell me "in any administrative situation." What should we mean by "in any administrative situation"? In what was the Senator of Podemos whose need for housing really did not exist... [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u52	Silence... ! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u53	...and that, instead of renouncing your home, having sufficient means to pay one in the free market, continues to enjoy it and above, being able to do so, does not pay, and has to be evicted? Is that "housing for anyone in any administrative situation"? Well, look, we're not out there. Nothing more. Thank you very much. (Berbotsa)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u54	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Quiet, please. Silence! You don't have the right to replicate. It's over and we'll vote together Podemos, Euskal Socialists, EH Collect and the Eubertarians, the middle-class correction that the teams have signed. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 75; the supporters 75; the opponents are 0; the white ones, 0; abstentions, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u55	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "The same proposition as the Parlamentarian Society of Euscal, the necessity of abolishing the political hatred of Eukadin and the praise of terrorism. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Sémper, the representative of the American Basque Group, has the intention of presenting and defending the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u56	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Eguerdi on guztioi, councillors, ladies and gentlemen. Sometimes you come up with a proposal, in this case a non-legislative proposal, which you understand is easy to endorse, which you understand can generate the greatest possible consensus, and it turns out you're not going to have any support. I will use this intervention with all honesty to tell you that I will try, probably with more will than right, I will try to convince you that this is an initiative worthy of your approval. I don't want to talk to you today. I'm not going to talk to you about the victims of terrorism. I am not going to talk to you about the ertzainas killed, or the police, or the civilian guards; I am not going to talk to you about the cooks, the journalists, the teachers; I am not going to talk to you about the politicians; I am not going to talk to you about the women, the children killed by ETA during these terrible decades of violence. Today I want to talk to you primarily about another victim of terrorism: Basque society. Of Basque society, of our society, of our land, as a victim also of terrorism. Because if something has existed over these decades, they have been clearly identifiable victims for all, and to nothing that anyone has a minimum of bale is able to sympathize or tremble at the multitude of examples that we have about the victims, about the blood shed on our streets, about the pain, about the families, about the life projects ultimately broken over these decades. But there is one victim on which I believe that at least this party, the party I represent, wants to deepen or believes that it is the great challenge that we also have, along with these that I have just enumerated, of course. But in parallel there is another victim we have to work on in his reparation, and it is Basque society as a victim of terrorism, and it is Basque society in which hatred, confrontation, and a Basque society in which coexistence was broken, in which we were prevented from living in freedom, which was prevented from living in normality and living in normality also in a democratic regime which some put but (and this is absolutely legitimate, it would lack more), a legal framework that some want to reform. A system of coexistence which, with its imperfections, was accepted by the vast majority, of course, of the parliamentary arch, but also the vast majority of Basque citizens. And that a small part of Basque society refused to accept, and that small part of Basque society also had a tool to combat this system of coexistence that we all gave ourselves: it was intended to fight and impose an alternative political project through the use of violence in multiple forms. Because murder, extortion, added to the threat, added to the persecution, and added something that is especially cruel, and that is that the one who was later murdered was still being pursued, to him and to his family. Pursuing his memory, and pursuing his memory also using expressions that we have all had the opportunity to know, such as "something will have done" or "this is part of a conflict." A little over five years ago ETA decided to stop killing. I believe that we can all share that this decision of ETA was not the result of an ethical and moral reflection, but that this decision of the terrorist gang was the result of multiple circumstances. And, without anyone wishing to bestow special merits, that ETA decision could also be agreed among all, surely, that it was the result of the effectiveness of the State Security Forces and Bodies, the effectiveness of the Ertzaintza, the National Police and the Civil Guard; that it was the result of the progressive loss of fear of an important part of Basque society that was unable for a long time to overcome that fear and demonstrate publicly against ETA and its barbarity, and fortunately these barriers of fear were overcome; that the action of justice and the unity of political parties also contributed to this decision. And surely we are able to find and agree, with serenity and tranquillity, more factors that contributed to ETA's cessation of murder and that today we can talk about ETA, at least the ETA it was killing, in terms of the past, although it is true that it has not yet been dissolved. But that decision by the terrorist gang was not the result of ethical and moral reflection. It was not the result of an ethical and moral reflection that led them to think and conclude that killing is wrong, that killing has no justification, and that chasing the dissenter never, under any circumstances, makes sense, but less in a society in which, I insist, with its imperfections, we live in a regime of freedoms in which anyone can think as he pleases and defend those political positions even from the institutions. This decision of ETA, based not on a critical questioning of terrorism as a valid tool in democracy, leads to the conclusion that neither is questioned, therefore, the hatred inoculated by Basque society, in Basque society, at least in part of Basque society. If this stage of the end of ETA, of the post-ETA murdering it, does not close it by making it clear that this political project, that the use of violence for its defense, and that the hatred it inoculated in a part of Basque society must also be eradicated, we run the risk that future generations, and perhaps not too far away, may be tempted to think that there are certain circumstances in which the use of violence has some justification and makes sense. That is why it is so important that, in the face of the advocacy of blood, in the face of the advocacy of the use of violence as a tool in democracy, institutions, or those who have a minimum of political responsibility because we have been elected by the citizens, we react forcefully and firmly to any manifestation that intends to prolong this culture of hatred that has been inoculated for so many decades in Basque society. That is why it is very important that we react, when someone has served his sentence of deprivation of liberty and returns home, that we react forcefully to manifestations of exaltation or approval. Not because that person who has been deprived of his liberty has not complied with justice and the law, which he has complied with, but because what he did and for what he was imprisoned does not deserve the applause of society, of course he does not deserve public exaltation, and he does not deserve the public recognition of a part of society. But, if this is serious, if these manifestations of support and exaltation are serious, where they are extraordinarily serious, and where I think they should cause all the alarms to light up, it is when these manifestations of support and approval have as stage the public school, an institute, as protagonists the youngest in our society, who are not only protagonists of the present, who are, but are the Basques and Basques of the future. If we attend this phenomenon naturally and with normality – and I am sure that the vast majority of this House does not attend with normality and naturality, but allow me this expression – if we attend with normality and naturality the fact that 15-year-olds dance aurresku to the image of those who committed murders in defense of an idea, nor are we doing favor to those 15-year-olds, nor are we doing favor to an entire generation that does not have to inherit hatred, it does not have to inherit a way of understanding the coexistence between Basques under which he had some justification to kill; in some circumstances, killing had some social and political justification. That's why everyone here has to take responsibility, they also have to act according to how they acted in the past. And we are convinced that the vast majority of this House and the vast majority of Basque society, in spite of the circumstances or precisely the circumstances, but jumping them, were up to those circumstances, but there was a part of Basque society that used the political pulpit to justify murder, there was a part of Basque society that manifested itself in the streets, behind banners, saying "ETA kills them". We have all participated in demonstrations, silent or not, in which, in the context of the kidnapping of Mr. Iglesias and through the use of the blue link, counter-demonstrations arose. And we came to participate in a kind of macabre scenario, under which there were citizens who were protesting for the freedom of an innocent lord who had been unjustly, illegitimately and cruelly kidnapped, and faced with neighbors who said that this gentleman was well kidnapped, and who defended the legitimacy of his abduction. We had to attend how there was a part of Basque society that lived under threat and that had to live with escort. We have had to attend painted walls, we have had to attend a stage in our villages, in our cities, in which the use of violence was exalted. And that did not die there, in fact, in the gesture, in the act, did not begin and end in that gesture and that absolutely reprehensible act, but nourished that culture of hatred and confrontation between Basques, and, what is worse even if it can, that climate of confrontation and of pointing to the dissenter, and to the one with whom one did not share a political position or had another different. And now we have to unravel that, we have to unravel that path and that culture of hatred inoculated by ETA as the main responsible, but also by those who in the ETA environment were concerned to justify socially and politically the mere existence of ETA and its terrorist activity. That is why I ask you, we ask you to support this proposal not of law, because the intention you have is to put the emphasis on those who cannot allow you to doubt, who are today fifteen, sixteen, seventeen years old; on those who cannot afford to have the slightest doubt or velocity when it comes to supporting or justifying or praising someone who came close to someone else and threw a shot in the back of his neck, someone who was able to put a bomb and take lives and break life plans. We cannot allow the school, the place where people are taught to be critical and free, the place where we must teach people, our children, to build a better future, to be a place where people are exalted, where they are honored, where the figure of someone who only caused pain and nothing but pain is glossed in positive. Because today the consequence, and today the summary at the end, the summary of so many years of terrorism, is only that: broken life projects, broken families, people who were murdered unjustly, and nothing more. Or something, yes: the hatred with which we have to be able, among all, to end, and to rebuild also spaces of coexistence and spaces of debate and serenity. And it is true that what we had the opportunity to know after the summer, throughout the months of September, October and November, in various institutes of Gipuzkoa, is probably not generalized, and we believe it is not generalized. We believe the environment is healthier than that. But between generalization and being classified as an isolated fact there is a gap and there is a path, and there are spaces on which we have to act and work. And this non-legislative proposal is simply to tell the government and ask the government something that I am sure you share, lehendakari, and it is that we have to emphasize that this does not happen to us again anywhere, but, especially, that it does not happen to us again in school and in schools. That is why I come to this rostrum to ask for support for this non-law proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u57	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Passing the teams that don't run, the Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u58	Thank you, President. Look, Mr Semper, it seems to us that the socialists are repugnant and extraordinarily grave that crime is raised and that it is raised, and especially grave that it is done in educational establishments and that there are those who encourage minors to pay tribute to those who have only achieved a public projection for killing, for murdering. That is why we are equally surprised that you have witnessed those events in an institute in our community that motivate the proposition, and we are concerned that events like these may have occurred in other centres or may be repeated in the future. We are very concerned, as if our young people in the majority do not have a reference to the fact that in this country it has, until now, been killed for the only crime of thinking differently. But not because it happened in 2016. We raised this concern already in 2010, that you will remember, to a concrete plan of action to tackle not only any conduct, but any idea that promotes or justifies the annihilation of another human being. And we did it then in search of maximum consensus, and we agreed with you and the Basque Nationalist Party. I want to remember, because that was not exactly easy or simple. It still resonates in this House how that ambitious and unprecedented project, which, in addition to other issues in the educational field, also included bringing the victims' voices to the classrooms, was struck by some parties in this House – I am looking at that bench – with rather thick words. Here we heard things like we wanted to indoctrinate the minors, that we were pushing a sectarian assault on the classrooms... That was said when that project was launched. And yet, six and a half years later, those programs, which are functioning and already installed in education, have spread to new voices of unjustly suffered suffering, have been explained in the first person that too many people in this country have been innocent victims of political or State reasons, which could not justify a single violation of rights. This has all happened. And we find it extraordinarily serious what has happened, but we want to place it at its right place, where it is. This is not, fortunately, something generalized in the classes of the Basque Country, that is not true, because educators, centers and students themselves are already involved in integral programs in values and in the rejection of violent attitudes. It is true that there are outbreaks, and unfortunately they can probably appear at other times, as there are also outbreaks of hatred that we must curb. I do not want to equate different violent phenomena, because they are not comparable, but we also find it incomprehensible and intolerable that among our young people, also among our young people, there is a consensual attitude towards the control that their couples exercise over their communications or their way of dressing, which can be the germ of other future attacks even more serious against women (I have already said that I do not want to equate it), as if some forms of school harassment are maintained. But all this, as in this case, requires specific plans and actions, and this problem in particular has been put into effect by the lehendakari Patxi López and by Councilwoman Isabel Celaá, as you will remember perfectly, and continued by this government. In the case of terrorism, which has marked Euskadi for half a century, there is a need for specific action, it is already under way, and, in the light of the facts, it is clear that it must be strengthened and it will be strengthened. We heard it yesterday from the Secretary-General for Human Rights and Co-existence, and we also heard it a few days ago from the Education Adviser, although I have to say that you, Mr Semper, did not make any mention of this problem at that time. It would have been a good time to have raised this matter with the counselor during her appearance. I therefore have to understand that you do not object to the proposed plans. We must also talk about this, when you are willing to agree or talk about the educational pact that has been proposed by the Government and with which you are now so far away. Because we socialists understand that the education system has to serve more than just acquire knowledge and skills, which is very well, this is essential. But the school must also contribute to education in values, to respect for plurality and to freedom of thought and belief, and, of course, to the defence of human rights. We say "contribute" because we cannot make the school solely responsible for this training. The fundamental responsibility for the values in which a young person must believe... is primarily the responsibility of his family, of his parents, who must also exercise that responsibility and demand from the educational institutions guarantees that no attitudes or ideas of discrimination, hatred or violence are fostered in the classroom. And as much as neither the proposer nor we like anything, we know that in this country, unfortunately (it is true, remains), there are still people who believe that ETA did well by killing. And, therefore, we share the need for us to extend from the institutions how many adaptations they serve to combat facts such as those that have motivated this initiative. I honestly think the initiative is a little overworked. Because I would understand this initiative in a context in which there was nothing in the field of education, in which no government would have bothered to launch a programme of these characteristics, precisely from which you defended in your exhibition (to inculcate values of respect for freedom, the right to free thought, human rights), but that was done, and it has been working since 2010. Therefore, we have not just understood what an initiative is coming from asking for an existing educational project to be launched, which is established in the educational field, which Mr Jonan Fernández has acknowledged and proposed to be strengthened, which the adviser herself has also explained in the field of his attendance. So, I think it's more than answered. That road started two legislatures ago. It's the right way. And, of course, we reject every attempt at manipulation that can be made or want to be made by our young people to make them think that there has ever been a reason to kill anyone. We bet on preventing tributes to horror, and also on preventing the oblivion of that horror. Because oblivion, as Benedetti said, is the veiled way of mocking history, and history is to remember it and to keep it very much in mind, not to forget it. This is something that already belongs to us all, to whom we are here, to those responsible for educational institutions and to all adults who use minors to continue to reproduce attitudes of hatred that belong to another time, to the time when in this country people were killed and there were those who encouraged those who killed. Therefore, Mr Semper, by sharing much of your presentation, by sharing your concern, we cannot support your proposal, for an objective and very simple fact: there is already an educational project in this country that deals precisely with what you have presented here in this rostrum.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u59	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Together the representative of Podemus, Mrs. Wide, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. Good morning, counselors. Good morning, congressmen. Mr. Sémper, when I read your usual proposal, I felt pain, and I want to express my feeling with all my respect. Please listen without prejudice, and try to understand what I want to say. First of all, it's remarkable that in your text there's only violence and violence. It has been sufficiently proved, not only that we have suffered other kinds of violence for years. Bortizkeria bortizkeria da, egin duenak egin dularik. And all of it must be delegitimized, not just a part of it. In our schools, in the new generations of Basques and Basques, it must be clear that never killing was justified, but neither was it torturing, threatening, extortioning or abducting. Second thoughts. You say that the efficiency of security forces has been decisive to indicate the ceasefire. I don't doubt it. But I want to remind you that these security forces have also a dark side: murders committed to the abuse of power, illegal arrests, or cases of torture, which you do not mention in your writing. That gives us the second victims. Here again you explain only the violence of ETA, and it seems to me that the youth of Essupal must know all the breaches of human rights which have occurred in our country. For, as the phrase says, the people who do not know their history are liable to repeat it. Zuk eta biok ez dugu Gertaera horiek Berriro Gertazzerik nahi, ziur nago ezetz. Eta horretarako, gure gasteak indarkeria mota guztien kontra immunized egon behar dira. They must know the direct testimony of the victims, who tell precisely the unjust of the damage caused, the unjust of the suffering and the suffering. Because, education for peace, if something has taught us Xabier Etxeberria is that it is not aseptic, that it does not stain; it is something that starts precisely from empathy and closeness with the people who suffered the most. But it is not only that sentimental education in citizenship; it is also providing historical rigour, it is presenting an inclusive approach to all suffering, and it is building a critical and delegitimizing memory. Third thought. I must give you the reason when you say that it created bills because the projects of life were destroyed, the families separated, and so on. It's true that we haven't been normalised Euskadin for years because we used to live with violence, which is very serious. But perhaps the worst thing is that we were blind and didn't feel the same way about all the waterings of human rights. And it is clear that in this country all the victims have not been equal, and we are still not equal. The same support has not been given to the widows of some civilian guards killed in the 1980s or to the widows of those killed in recent times. The victims of politicians have not had the same role as other victims. And, more importantly, even today we are many victims that the law does not even recognize our condition. Let's put on the table all the experiences: the persecution for different opinions – as you said –, living with escort, knowing that the family is at risk, the friendships that turn your face, the ones painted on the street, the posters, the calls, the messages in the mailbox with threats, etc., etc., also counter-manifestations. Zuk esan duzun bezala, zipaioak entzun, entzuten genituen esaldi horiek. Baina jarri also deplores torture, emergency anti-terrorist legislation, pre-trial detention, incommunicado detention, remoteness and the closure of the media that were subsequently pushed back. I don't put them on the same level, much less. I don't like them either, I'd miss them more! Precisely because I don't, I think we should move forward and be able to make an inclusive and truthful account. Laugarren hausnarketa, biktimarioen omenaldien inguruan. Partikatzen dugu samin hori. Although ongiatorriak and tributes to ETA members have not been so frequent, I know firsthand what hurts. I have suffered in the first person that those whom justice itself pointed out as guilty and responsible for my brother's death were paid homage. Mennajes, or those who were pardoned. Of course, it is unacceptable that no one should give any recognition to any person who has committed serious human rights violations, but that is faced, as I said before, from education for peace, with the testimony of the victims, from the delegitimization of all violence, with historical rigour and an inclusive memory. I agree with you again, that the Parliament cannot allow the praise of his fellow-citizens in some high schools. Anyway, if we don't talk to these kids, not knowing what's going on with them, we won't get to the point of the problem and we won't know why they do that. There's the key. And that's where I insist on the keys again. What are the keys? Enter through well-articulated, powerful, well-resourced peace education programs that, without any hint of equidistance or contemporarization, get to the bottom of the issue. That delegitimizing violence is what needs to be done. I assure you that in the Adi-Adian programme, in which I have participated and in which we are many of the educational victims we have taken part, that is the main objective: to delegitimize all kinds of violence. But this programme needs to be stepped up, it needs to have more resources, it needs to reach more centres, and it needs to involve more victims. In conclusion, I have to tell you that in order to get a partner, education is indispensable. And on this subject, we can't accept political games. It's very serious. We think that the law to teach, to strengthen, and to expand, must continue to walk co-ordinately with joy. Since 2013, we have an educational system established by Project Adi-Adiadi, which was established in 2010. In this intention, the students between our 15 and 18 years of learning, or Etica, study a tactical unit in the study of philosophy. In it, they learn and cultivate the Articles of the Universall Confederation of Human Rights. They hear also the testimony of certain persons who have suffered the waters of human rights, and may be of the GAL or the abuse of the police. That's why he has that name in Adi, because it's really amazing how they hear you. As many of you know, I've taken part in this project for years, and I swear we all go to colleges are quite clear what the goal we're trying to transmit is that violence is never the way. The work of educational victims, of all educational victims, peace education initiatives in formal or non-formal education, are key to explaining and sensitizing younger generations who have not experienced or experienced the toughest moments of violence. Me and other victims, what we do is we count our experience, without hatred, without stridence. Can there be anything more effective than working with the younger ones on issues of peace, than listening to a victim's direct testimony? Mr. Sémper, therefore, because we do not play with education, and especially with all things, we will refuse the other proposal, as you describe it. However, I think we are gradually getting to know each other. I refuse to believe that we are not going to reach agreements, and in an interview with you – forgive me for tutoring you – I read that you were very close to the Elkarrekin Podemos amendment within the framework of the Memory and Co-existence Paper. I want that person here, that person, and I'm staying with that Borja. I will not fail to try to involve you in the Presentation of Memory and Coexistence, because you are part of this reality, of this people, because you are part of this people, and especially because we need you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. When I examined this subject today, I saw a novelty; for Covit presented this subject in the United Nations, this accusation, and the committee of Child Rights has been taken into consideration. And PP's brought that in here for discussion. I think you're wrong, beyond reality. And you've mistreated this initiative. You see the reality with a disjointed spectacles, a man with a very crooked diptrisc, and you wanted to convey this distorted reality through Covite to the institutions of the United Nations. I was glad that this complaint came to the United Nations, and I have to welcome you: welcome, welcome to the United Nations system. However, I believe that they are late and that they are bad. They are late because they are piled up with the recommendations of these bodies, which for decades have been critical of them, and have been subjected to human rights violations that have been practised by the Kingdom of Spain. They have been asked to end incommunicado detention and to repair the victims of torture. They have been asked to repeal the Amnesty Act and to recognize the rights of the victims of Francoism to perpetrators of crimes against humanity. United Nations agencies have asked them to dismantle emergency legislation, or more currently even the law of gags. I told them they were late, but I also think they're bad. They go wrong because they do not understand the dimension of what Covite has transferred to the United Nations: a criticism against the Spanish State. A criticism for which the Kingdom of Spain has, in the eyes of the UN, a radicalised youth, a youth embraced by hatred, and therefore action on which it will have to act. The international bodies will think that, accumulating to the previous criticisms that came from these bodies, the Kingdom of Spain is actually a failed state, is a state incapable of governing itself, incapable of resolving the great violations of human rights, even those that affect the victims ideologically closest to the Government of the Spanish State. I therefore believe that the question is not what we should do here, but what the Spanish State is going to do in the face of such criticism of the United Nations. And I'm afraid of that. That gives me the impression, because I know how the Spanish State reacts in such cases. You went to the National Listener's office for this case. You didn't mention it. Perhaps this is what you do for the good of these young people. Identify and maybe arrest these young men. Maybe the Civil Guard will have to control schools from now on. Perhaps the Spanish State is convinced that Euska Autonomia must be intervented because we misconduct educational educational educational rights. On the other hand, I see that this complaint which has been transferred to the United Nations has also not had a good entry into Europe. He washes his hands in the face of the radicalisation of young people. I mean, it seems that Europe sees no case. A positive point (United Nations), a negative point... So, the result I see is zero. I don't see the example of terrorism in this case. I see that you have exercised a case of small dimensions, in order to give an interested image of great magnitude to the euscal youths. You've taken a particular case out of context to distortion the entire euscal education system. You have tried to interpret that hate had moved these young people, but you've disfigured reality in order to open an expression of hatred. They say that whoever only has hammers in the toolbox sees all the problems as if they were nails, and you only have hammers: extensive criminal types, expansive, exacerbated, from which to derive judicial operations, police operations, with cops coming from afar, and to make younger people available to distant political courts with their distant judges. Again, we face the danger of rushing into the slope of a slippery criminal type, a crime-chicle. I am referring to that already classic crime of exaltation, but today a new one is incorporated, which is the crime of hatred. The application of terrorist crimes is becoming increasingly difficult, as is evident in that assembly that took place in Altsatsu, so they are now seeking in hate crimes the new assis... [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u63	Quiet, please, Carmelo... Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u64	You need a substitute to continue feeding the National Audience, to install a continuous perception of lack of normality in this country, thinking that perhaps, in a troubled river, you may have gain. And they've found in hate crimes the alternate so they can keep bringing the same prescriptions to this country. That's why, because to you all problems look like nails. Look at the proposal you've brought and you're looking at the section device, you're asking me to make an educational plan. It has not been an easy task to establish peace plans for education, because it has been a violent process in this country. The first plan, the plan of Peace and Human Rights in 2008-2011, has been an incident since the beginning of the year in the education of these plans. The Basque School Council gave him strict criticisms of Democratic life and the dislgima of violence to the 2010-2011 Plan, and concluded that there was a great disagreement between the professors of education. I must say that this has gone on, and these differences have somehow been solved. When the plan was put in motion, it was a great distrust, but it has gone off, and there have been doubts or distrusts that may be of education-makers. If it has the margin of improving the modules, I think it has been established in our education system and it has made its way. We think that, considering this margin of improvement, and a few stages still involved, this must be the way. Hues, all of us who are here want to go that way, we want to leave that channel. But PP seems to come back in the opposite direction. Just like in the car that comes in the opposite direction from the highway, you think the rest of us are wrong. It can't be like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u65	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u66	Mrs. President. Good morning, comrades. The pain and damage which it has caused in this people is not doubted. In fact, we've often been accused of the legislature at the whole meeting, as well as of certain commissions, as in the ponds. For what is called the ethical ground, he left the columns of life established at the end of the ninth law. Yesterday, the principal secretary of peace and co-manship, in the act made on the board, made it clear that for the next four years, human rights and co-operations will be established on the ethical floor. What you have to say has been said. Today, Mr. Sémper, that recruit you've been doing here has often been done, it hasn't been news. And we agree with that relatoire, but a thousand times repetition gives it no more weight. On the other hand, he's in danger of being humiliated. Not only do what we have to say, but duties have long since been working. And in this law there is an engagement to penetrate and increase, and it appeared yesterday at the scene repeated. It is not therefore necessary, because it is already active, and in a successful way. We are going to vote no for your non-law proposal, Mr Semper, like the rest of the parliamentary groups, because, while it is true that the facts denounced in the justification of your initiative are true, and, like you and most people, they embarrass us and hurt us, they do not cease to be punctual. Specific facts that do not represent the behaviour of the Basque educational system in a whole, not even the attitudes, initiatives and actions that the Education Administration, teachers and students maintain in our educational institutions. Therefore, raising specific facts to the category of habituals is not only profoundly unfair to all of them; I also believe that it does not contribute anything to the construction of coexistence in Euskadi. The Government and educational institutions have been in place for a long time, as other spokespersons have repeated, to delegitimize terrorism and political violence in Euskadi, and programmes to boost empathy with victims for a long time. The data on the performance balance are strong enough, and speak for themselves. It is therefore not necessary, as you propose, to implement a comprehensive plan for the education system in four months, because it was launched more than four years ago. And, as I say, the data on these educational programs speak for themselves. In this regard, programmes to which reference has been made, such as that of educational victims (the Adi-Adian programme), in 2014, 2015 and 2016 have impacted a total of 8,138 students in our education system, in sixty-three centres and with thirty-one victims participating in that programme. But it is not the only program that is in place: 332 educational centers have participated in the Elkarrekin Bonus Program; the Zinexit program has impacted 4,118 students from forty-two educational centers and 229 teachers. Anyway, I think the data makes it clear. The educational work plan is under way, and will continue to be developed. And not only that: it's going to improve, it's going to expand, and it's also expanding even to the university level. But, besides all this, there is a reason weighty reason for denying it, and I mean with all humility and no ill-will: we are not ready to dance to the rhythm marked by the Popular Party. Coincidence and human rights are of great importance, and, as we said before, we do not wish to be partial. During the last week's meeting, the Parliament decided to create a mental and co-operation, with a large majority. The popular party, of course, has the whole liberty of deciding where to use its political action. I don't doubt it, but he won't take us all to him. We want to establish a political diary through discussion and arrangement, among all of us. And that's what we're going to do in power. I want to convey a clear message, from the first day and from the first non-law position they present: time, times and situations pass, change, fortunately evolve. Basque society on this issue is also evolving, and we want to accompany society on that path. We are not prepared, therefore, to continue mimetically repeating the dynamics of the previous legislature; we are not prepared for Thursday after Thursday to use the issue of violence again as a bold weapon, nor as an element for demagoguery. It is time to address this issue with seriousness and rigour within the framework of the paper, and not seeking the minute of media glory. On that path of shared work, on that path you will find us with all the willingness for dialogue, for confrontation when necessary, and, above all, for agreement. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u67	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Passing the answers, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u68	I believe, Mr Iturrate, with all honesty – and I will overlook the minute of media glory, I will overlook the fact that the subject of violence has been used to make demagogy – I can assure you that it has not been the vocation of my speech, and if in any of the phrases or any of the manifestations you have interpreted that I have made demagogy, I ask you to remember it when I come down here and I will apologize to you, because it has not been my intention. Believe me, I've spoken to you from honesty and with my heart. With the head too, mainly with the head, but also with a little bit of heart. It would also be good if, in order to preach with the example, we began to banish certain expressions that we launched among one another on account of the issue of violence and coexistence. I haven't looked for a minute of media glory, I haven't used demagogy. I am talking to you about a problem that is extraordinarily important to us, and I am sure that to you too, but perhaps the tools and measures that we want to implement to end hatred and deepen coexistence are different. Do you know what's going on? That you say you are not willing to dance to the rhythm of the People's Party. We do not pretend to dance at any rate, of course to our no, but it would be good if they did not dance to the rhythm of these gentlemen, because they will share a presentation of memory and coexistence with those who believe (Mr. Arzuaga, you make it extraordinarily difficult)... with whom he believes that what happened in those institutes was not an exaltation of terrorism and a tribute and apologia of terrorism. He said it, he said it! That is, that 14-year-olds, 15- or 16-year-olds dance an aurresku to whom they shot at the neck or put bombs, still today is defended by the spokesman in this case of EH Bildu. This is the problem, Mrs Zabala, this is the problem we have as a society! I have never seen a demonstration on the streets of San Sebastián shouting "GAL kill them", fortunately. I've never seen them painted in San Sebastián, or in any village in Gipuzkoa, fortunately, saying "Torture them Ertzaintza, Police, Civil Guard." I've seen the opposite. Look, I had the honor of bringing a LAG victim on the lists where I ran for mayor of Irun: Laura Martín, whom you know deeply. Our highest, final and absolute condemnation, without palliatives, without nuances, to the LAGs. Our utmost, robust and absolute condemnation of any use of violence and any excesses or offences committed by any public official of the State. Absolute, round, no shades. Our highest and final condemnation of the Franco regime. Our highest and final condemnation of ETA. Even ETA, in this enumeration, even ETA we all agree in this House. The sentence comes to ETA, and there are discrepancies. And the blame lies with the People's Party, the responsibility lies with who put his neck or who had to live threatened by ETA. It is the responsibility of those who had to endure being pointed out by the street, that our families suffered, that many had to leave this land, that many of our companions were killed. And it is our responsibility today, Mrs Zabala, not these gentlemen. Because EH Bildu's spokesman comes out here to talk to us about what things, but we have to give the doll of the People's Party, who is looking for his minute of glory. I would be grateful, I would be grateful to our group, and I would be sure that a good part of this society, Mr Iturrate, would use that force and those thick phrases against the People's Party against these gentlemen or against Mr Arzuaga's intervention. I'd appreciate it. Because here it is at the end to decide where the line is, what we want to defend, what we want to project to Basque society, what our young people listen to, what our young people who are in school, who are fifteen years old, who have not experienced terrorism. But they hear Mr. Arzuaga and say, "There he goes! There was a reason, there was a context, there was a justification!". This is what Mr Arzuaga is telling us today. And to interpret what I'm going to say. I can understand that Mr. Arzuaga hasn't turned you around yet. I can understand that Mr. Arzuaga, who you probably participated in those demonstrations in which they said "ETA kill them" or "Semper, fascist, the next on the list" (that I have heard that in counter-manifestations)..., I can understand that whoever participated in those demonstrations, who used the political pulpit to politically and socially justify ETA after each murder... has difficulty in changing. It doesn't mean that I'm going to lower my demand, and it doesn't mean that politically we don't have to keep demanding that they come to the side of the Democrats, but I can understand their moves, I can understand the climate in which they move, which is supposed to be epic of the revolution. I can understand that it is now very complicated for them to disband forty years of talk justifying terrorism. What I can't accept and what we can't understand and tolerate is that they are allowed that, is that we move on from point to point on that attitude. It is that we have created a presentation of memory and coexistence, Mr Iturrate, and now here the People's Party will not tell us anything in this plenary! In the presentation of memory and coexistence, in private, where it does not bother what Mr Arzuaga says, where it is diluted and, listen, we will all live happy and quiet! Look, the first ones we are delighted and want to live happily and calmly are us, but we have a po-li-ti-ca responsibility, we have a political responsibility towards this society, and we have to get those who justified, from political pulpits and from the street, who justified killing Basques and Basques, and not Basques and not Basques, today undo the way. Because there are a lot of people who believed him...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u69	Finishing up...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u70	... because there is a generation (term, Madam President)... Because kids who were my age, Mrs. Zabala, when I was twenty-five years old, born in democracy, in a Basque society with its imperfections, but who looked to the future and tried to build a society of opportunities, kids of my own age justified or would have justified that I had been killed. Mr Arzuaga seven years ago, if I had been shot, Mr Arzuaga would have justified it, he would have given a political explanation to the fact. Not today. Not today. But do you use the same force to justify that today it's not right for me to be killed than I used before to justify that I was killed?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u71	Ending up, Mr. Sémper...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u72	This is the key, in our opinion. And that's why we have to be blunt. And I take that expression to ask you again for the vote, with that expression by Mrs Zabala: that the Adi programme be intensified, that all programmes be intensified, Mrs Zabala. Everyone. That's what we're asking. Let us intensify the effort, let us not go from point to point as if it were an isolated fact, because it probably is, but it is an extraordinarily serious isolated fact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u73	Thank you, Mr. Sémper... Thank you. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u74	Look, Mr. Semper, from the appreciation and respect that you know I have for you, I don't criticize you for the analysis you've done here. I share most of the analysis. What I do not understand is that you are presenting an initiative which, in summary, calls for an educational plan to be put in place to combat hatred and intolerance and to defend the right to life and respect for human rights, because that is already installed in the education aspect of the Basque Parliament. And it is also that you were active collaborators, with us and with the Basque Nationalist Party, to illuminate this initiative. By the way, in the face of criticism, sometimes fierce, of the bench on my left, which accused us of sectarians, of indoctrination, of abducting the consciences of children..., of not knowing how many more things, which had a first reflection, it is true, as Mr Arzuaga said, in the School Council, not innocently, obviously. What I want to say to you, sharing the analysis, is that the initiative is not sustained because what you ask to be done is being done. And I understand that you can ask for it to be stepped up or strengthened, but I also told you that both Mr. Jonan Fernández and the Education Adviser have committed themselves to doing so. So, you're left with little substance, aren't you? And Mrs. Zabala, I do want to say, from respect and affection... You are from the very first moment on this programme, since it was launched in 2010, and it was not by chance: it was because the Socialists were clear that people like you should be on that programme. But in the meantime, these gentlemen said that it was to indoctrinate the students, that it was to kidnap their consciences, that it was to play dirty games with the kids. At the same time that programme was being implemented. It is true that afterward, fortunately, it has spread to many other schools, which has been an initiative that is working frankly well. That you could have seen that the kids listened with great respect to what was said in those appearances, and that they knew a reality that was probably alien to them until then, or would always have been if that program did not exist. And, Mr Arzuaga, I am sorry to say the same thing I said to you when we were talking here about the peace and coexistence speech: I do not understand your speech, it sounds to me like an old speech, which does not correspond to other things that I have heard from you in this Parliament. You have made an escapist, cloaking speech, in which, in order not to enter into the problem that was being raised, because it is uncomfortable for you, you have begun to talk about other violations of law, which I criticise, like you, with the same constancy, but I would like you to condemn with the same constancy what happened in those institutes. Can you imagine that this institute had organized a tribute between teachers and students to a torturer who had just left prison, or to a rapist? It would be a big scandal! Well that, punctual but true fact (it occurred), and I want to pick from you the same force by criticizing that, without compromises and without disguised explanations, that you have put in order to defend the bad performance of the State Administration or of the Security Corps and Forces or of the Spanish policy in other matters, which is true that they have not yet completely resolved. I therefore believe that everyone has to face up to their real responsibilities. And I do not want the People's Party to leave here thinking that the other political parties in the House do not share their concern about what has happened in that institute or in that high school. Of course we share it! The speech you made here I can share. Now, the conclusion that you come to, that you have to put in place an educational plan that is already invented, that has been working six and a half years, that everyone agrees (victims of both hair, and centers of all kinds) that is working very properly..., do not pretend that we invent the powder when it is already invented and has been working for a long time. It's the only thing I can blame, not the analysis I can do or the criticism of what happened. But, well, I just encourage you to keep working with us. Don't you want to get into the Memory and Coexistence Paper now? It is not going to be easy to manage, I recognize that, especially if the speech that Mr Arzuaga has made today and the other day is kept, but I think it is at least our duty to try. And we do not refuse to discuss these things in plenary when we have to discuss them, but we think that, since an instrument has been created that should in principle be used to try to save great agreements without lowering the ethical list (I insist again, without lowering the ethical list), I believe that our obligation is to try, and I think that you should turn it around as well.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u75	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Together the representative of the Podemos team, Mrs. Wide, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u76	In the first place, Mr. Sémper, I agree with you in many things, but I don't blame you on any business; he will talk to us in his own time, but I don't blame you. It's just that I'm telling you again and again that we want you to be in that power because you're necessary in this memory and communion, because you're a reality, because you're a reality in this society, and we'll never be able to appreciate any kind of violence. Let's get this straight. Then I'd like to explain a little to you about the Adi-diadian module (there seems to be people here who don't know what the Adi-Aid is). Adi-diand module, as you said before... In 2010, the Heziers of the Victims, which was established in the Adients 2013. It represents the opportunity to make an experience and learning itinerary with five stops. Human rights, they know the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the United Nations, and that is fundamental, because they have to be visible there... they have to be all alarms. The risk factors that children have to learn to detect are knowledge of human rights, and when any activity or action is capable of violating those human rights. That's where we have to put the alarms, that's what our young people need to know. In addition, they know the testimonies of the victims, empathy, and coexistence. These are five concepts that we usually develop in the Adi-Adian module. Ademandas, you know, you know, you know, you know, like... You said terrorism had social and political protection. I've always seen it, and it hurt like hell. This state of things increased my concentration. I had never had any part in it or any part of it; I had not participated in it for many years. Nevertheless, some of us were invisible to the institutions and the lawyers. But now, from this legislature, I will endeavour to make all I can to extend to the perpetual worship of peace in the society of Esscal. And I continue with the Adi-Adian module, and I would like to report that the treatment that must be given to education for peace, to the injustice of violence, to solidarity with the victims and to the pedagogical value of their testimony is a concern that has been present in the Basque educational system for many years. What can be improved? Everything in this life is improveable, and the Adi-adian module or project is also improveable, but we have to put in resources. In principle there are two reasons: one, the educational reason, and the other, a Community reason. Educational reason: violence, terrorism and human rights violations are not only an injustice per se; they are mainly because they cause radical suffering to individuals. The human suffering it causes is real, and it is heard, seen, felt and shared with the person who tells it. That's the wealth that this project has, this module. This testimony offers the opportunity for pedagogical reinforcement in human, personal and pro-social education. Through a real experience, it allows students to deepen their education for empathy, coexistence, human dignity, human rights, and critical sense in the face of injustice. And, all this, all the people that we are part of or that we have been part of, we have very clear. I am even proud to say that we have been awarded for three consecutive years. On December 10, 2014, this government fortunately awarded the René Cassin Award to forty-one victims who were part of both the Adi-Adian project and their day in Greenclee (another day we will talk about Greenclee). In 2015, Sara Buesa and I had the honour of receiving the Gazte Role Model Saria award awarded by Ikastola Begoñazpi, and we were twinned as we have always been, and we have recognized ourselves in our pain for a long time. And then it should also be noted, as a last prize, that in 2016, on 18 October, the Txema Fínez prize was also awarded to the victims who are part of the Adi-Adian project. I think it's a project that's pretty solid, it's socially recognized. Of course it has its margin of improvement, and I will try, along with you if you help me, to continue to improve this whole system that we have already put in place.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Arzuga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u78	Yes, thank you again. A mention, Mr. Pastor: I don't know how we could criticize from that bench the Plan of Democratic Coexistence and Delegitimization of Violence 2010-2011, I don't know how we could say it was sectarian, when we were illegalized. We weren't. I mean, I don't know what you meant, or I don't know what kind of selective memory you have. Mr. Sémper, I will not enter your speculations. I don't know what I'd do in what situation, I don't know what reality. Reality, today, because it's today, and I have to say it fortunately. I don't know if you lived or wanted to live in another virtual reality. You tell me that I have not discussed the action of this initiation, or the initiative which it inspires. About these facts in Hernanin and Azpeiti, perhaps you think that these young people were giving homage for their delitative file, and that's all right to think about it, but I think it's not so. You may think that these young people wanted to humiliate or insult someone, and that's all right to think about it, but I think it wasn't. You think that terrorists and members of the community were educating, but those who appeared in these photographs were not terrorists, they were not even members of the community. For they were nothing, because they were dead; these people were dead. And the dead people were remembering, and it's as if you can't do that in this town either. They can't remember, they can't whistle, they can't dance, they can't put a flower in the cemetery. And that's not the worst. The worst part is that I think you seek to criminalize your memory, because many of those events you consider anatema are protected by the laws. On that day the events were intended, in a certain way, to remember Juan Paredes Txiki and Ángel Otaegi on the forty-first anniversary of being shot by fascism. I remind you that they are recognized by Decree 107/2012. Other photos of other people, of other people, who also have the recognition of the laws of victims of terrorism, appeared. Some of them even appear on memory maps. As you see, these people also had institutional protection, but you conclude that terrorism was exalted. I can understand, I say again, that I do not like it and that we discuss it politically, but what I am afraid of is criminalizing these kinds of initiatives, because we know where it ends. I tell you more: it gives me the impression that you, lords of the People's Party, want to make the speech that these people do not deserve to remember because they are dead and well dead, because their death was legitimate and their death was just. I think today's has been an initiative that has brought us with a big brush, a case out of context to further strain the political debate. Perhaps these are the photographs you would like there to be in the schools and schools of Euskal Herria. [[Shows a photo]] In fact, this happened in a school, in a school in Cintruénigo, Navarre, and perhaps they would like to see them generalized, they would want to see them spread throughout the territory. I'm telling you, these photographs may not be hate crimes, what happens is they're hateful images. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u79	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. Let's see if it's short. I, Mr Semper, am glad that you have shown that you are prepared to move forward from abandonment, from rejection of demagogy, to political use of the suffering of the victims, to media use... All those statements of intent seem good to me, I'm glad you're doing them, and I just hope we can check them out in the future and see if that's the case. In fact, what we are seeing is something that we knew beforehand, because it is something that we have been seeing for many years in this Parliament: that in the end this debate that you have brought, in the legitimate right to exercise your political freedom, has resulted in this which you have seen and which you have denounced. Look, Mr. Arzuaga's speech, Mr. Semper, is from Mr. Arzuaga, and do not endorse it or ask me to pronounce on it or to reproach me for not speaking on it, because you know that I have done it on many occasions. I have never been shaken by the voice to demand from the left the commitments I had to demand, and I have done so on many occasions in his presence. So, I don't have any repairs. You've heard it, and you know it perfectly well. I accept the criticisms sportingly. The curses, the endorsement of a responsibility that we don't have, the silence before the murders, the signals, etc., no. That's what you wanted to do when you said you weren't answering Mr. Arzuaga. Mr. Arzuaga has his speech and it's his own. Look, I said I share the story you made here, but it seemed, when I listened to you, that it was the first time we heard that story in this Parliament. And unfortunately, because it has happened in this country, we have heard it many times. And he said that by force of repeating it we do not get the effect that I understand that you want, but often the opposite, to trivialize it. I have not called into question your right – and I have expressly recognised it – to table in this plenary or in committee the debates you consider appropriate, but our speeches will be made by us, and you do not intend to set the pace for us. Nor do you want us to resolve your contradictions, your group's contradictions in this matter. Because I don't understand why you can't talk to these gentlemen – as you say – in the Presentation of Memory and Coexistence on Memory and Coexistence, and you can do it in the Commission on Human Rights. Why can't we talk in the Presentation of Memory and Coexistence with these gentlemen on these issues, and we can talk in the Board of Directors of the Institute of Memory, on which Mr Barrio is sitting right now and on which we are going to amend the law so that you can continue to be, and you will be. Why can't you talk to these gentlemen in the paper on memory and coexistence in this Parliament, and you can sit for years in the Human Rights Committee with Josu Ternera. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u81	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. After discussion, we'll vote for the original text of another proposal like the Basque Potula group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the partisans of 9; the contrary,66; white, 0; abscession, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u82	So, not allowed original text. At this point, I interrupt the whole meeting until three o'clock. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-four. The meeting begins again at three o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u83	Good afternoon, everyone. We'll go back to the whole meeting. Five point in theme list: "Provide the other proposal as the parliamentary team has made, agree to the representatives of the LEPas who were announced in education, and to delay to 2018. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u84	The head of the table, Mr. Urkullu, members of the legislature, all good afternoons. In fact, I don't know where to begin today, because it's really sad and pitiful what this Board of Education is doing, or rather what it isn't doing when it's in theory that education is essential for this society. Perhaps I'm mistaken and I have to review the transscriptions to see if this government has made such a confession to this Board of Education. It's really a cry we've got. And we have only to begin this legislation, but I want to remember, and we must not forget that we have a backpack, a backpack with four years' careers. When the Board of Education came to present the projects of legislation, I thought whether I asked for resignation or not. In fact, the main responsible for the nicest of the Board of Education is the face, the head physician of Education. But I thought, well, every manager deserves a second chance and a third chance. And we shall have some patience, and let us go and see if this government which takes education in this legislation with sufficient seriousness and responsibility; let us consider whether, in this legislation, the one-sidedness between the present, which actually opens the interlocution, gives place to the conversation, and gives the negotiation, with the faculty of education, with the representatives of the teachers, and how not with the parliamentary members of the class; and whether it leaves the management of the school and the administration to a side-based system. We have therefore, from the beginning of legislation, placed several initiatives on the table in order to enable them all to return to the present state, and above all relations, with the object of opening the conversation, and to regain the character of the table in the sector, and to set it right in operation as the table is needed. And that's where the proposition we're talking about today. And I'll explain it to you very briefly. With the representatives of the professors who are part of the education unit, and at the beginning of a legislature more than ever, we ask him to set up the sector table as required, and to make a division and agree with the negotiations, and from this to direct the change of generation of the planet to guarantee stability, and of course the public offer of work. But this inevitably requires that we place all things on the table, see the situation we have, and, from that point forward, seek the consent. So before the public offer of work in 2017 is proposed, and before it is called, it is a predictive which ought to be made. It would be necessary to make a precedent, and meanwhile to freeze the appeal, because it must be the most natural and most common of logic to agree with the majority of the professors' representative, because they are part of the community of education, because they are present in the everyday, and they are working directly. Even more because we find the change of generation in this legislation at a time, and the temporary rate when it's at 39% (in fact, it's easy to say). And what we wanted to do was to open the above paths from the oasis view into the village, to leap into the state view. Here we need the state view, the long-term view, which must be included in the everyday pretty ones. But no, what did this Board of Education do? At the holiday season in December, report to the sector table. Inform him, turning his back to negotiation without negotiation. It's been years since that table has become a wastetable of information, and it's been years since there's been no agreement or negotiation with the majority's union. How old? 10 years? And then we talk about the excellences of education, we talk about the quality of education projects, when we don't even consider teachers. The announcement of public work offers at the beginning of the legislation, in the headlines, it's very good in the media, because fun started the new marchetinist. In this legislation the public offer is what it is to be, that is to say, a marchetin-rooting which is due to this legislation, insisting on the spire of the Esscal oasis. That strategy looks great outside. It looks great. The people see the headlines, it seems as if the Board of Education is doing something, but since then the people don't see a small letter and only the teachers, their students, have suffered by their families, go on with ten marbles for the Board of Education. And then this is the case, and the consequences are the public educational system. What does the Board of Education do? Well, go ahead like that. And the planning that's done doesn't solve the temporary. Of course, the job offers are important. But public offers are really important, with clear criteria inside an integral plan, with definite purposes, because if we have no clear criteria, if we don't know where we're going, you'll tell me what we do with public work offers. Of course, something to stay on the headlines and imagine. Because here we should discuss the criteria for entering Administration, we should also discuss how we'll fix people who work for three years on the system and are going to stabilize them. Because how many teachers are working at school for ten years? Do you think that a education project can be developed in a school like that? Do you really think so? Do you really think it helps to develop an education project with the village, the community in the neighborhood? Is that what you think? I find it difficult. I suppose all this is a political decision, because there are no coincidences here. A political decision to weaken the public system. And after this the things that come for us are come and come for us by the same way. I'll give you an example of Gaul. I don't think it's the best model to quote it here, but if I'm not mistaken, the government of Galicia will establish 5,000 teachers. Why can't we do that here? That's the question. Seeing the government has done the announcement of the public offer for 2017, it has not attended the demands which have been made, and the majority of them immediately came out and said: "Hey, man, you didn't talk to us. You didn't negotiate, you didn't agree. What did the Board of Education do? He imagined a little that he would start the conversation, but then he transferred the information through the mail, and he transferred a communication, saying that he went on. Is that your interlocution? Is that the interview? Is that the negotiation? Not for us. We have, therefore, two hypotheses: This department of education has no criteria, it has no clear direction, or has made up its mind, and it is decided to continue to weaken the public system, in spite of the representatives of the professors, in spite of the discipline of education. And with the proposal which we presented it, it was our purpose to make an essay on the beginning of our performance at the Companion of Companion, and still more of the nature in which the sector is actually active; to start a conversation with the members of the community of education, to plan with the representatives of the professors. But seeing what corrections the proposal has been, it is clear that the Board of Education has no will or will for dialogue or negotiation. And we have been very curious to hear what the Government relates in its correction, and is thus quoted: "Always, by means of legal means foreseen by the decree which regulates the conditions of work." By legal means, when it's government, it doesn't follow the law. The government doesn't follow the law. What does legality want to be filled up? That's where you can rely on the Public Employment Act... And if you test several laws, you can see what the law says. And in our humble opinion, more than any other, the beginning of legislation should be a convenient moment for the representatives of the professors, to direct the conversation with the majority, to speak, and to regulate the stability of the planet. That's what custom, law, requires, isn't it? If our purpose is to obey the law, what should we do? What should the Board of Education do? Isn't this supposed to say that the sector table is to be negotiated? Doesn't it tell us that the Board of Education is the chief care of the public education, and therefore gives us a proper education? Does it not seem to us that the means of sufficient human resources ought to be directed to it? When the government tells us that the public offer of 2018 will be negotiated, when it has not been able to negotiate public business offers in 2017? What is his credibility? You'll tell me. Fortunately, every crisis is an opportunity, an opportunity opens. And this is where we have several challenges to which we ought to arrive in this legislation: To put an end to the provisionality, to return to the prevaricate, to replace, purchase power, to pay 100 percent of the children, to change the change of generation, to the progress of the professors of Special Education, to reveal the rarests... It seems to us that we have many challenges, and that we must necessarily speak to the representatives of the teachers, because they are the right parts. And all these matters affect education, everyday, people, students. They have an effect on the educational project, in order to anticipate and anticipate plans which are announced and accepted, on condition that you plan to bring so many plans forward? It's the everydayity, and that's how families, students, teachers find themselves. And that is the plan we had on the table today to open a door to this legislation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u86	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. It has not been possible at this point to reach an agreement with the proposing group, but it is true that we shared much of what was coming in that proposal and also much of what Rebeka Ubera has now explained in the atril. Nor with the parties that support the Government, and I will try to explain the reasons now. In our group, we're doing a pretty bad rating of the Board of Education, and we're seeing what's going on in the law and what we're seeing at this time. Well, it's clear that the Euscataian education system isn't at its best. On one side, the PlISA results. On the other hand, the high rate of provisionalness, and in our oasis, for example, I believe this data to be marked: It's more than 30 percent of the professors in education system. This rate is between the highest rate of state rates. And this doesn't happen by chance, because of the nices you've done in the past decades. During the last decades the euscal public school has won the stakes in general, and for want of political resources, the benefit of private school. And if we talk about the workers of the public euscal school, that's what happens to us. The reductions of the past few years have not been restored, and I repeat, the rate of provisionalness is very high. Among other labour problems, we also have to mention precariousness, the wage freeze for several years, the non-recovery of IT supplements, the non-reduction of teaching hours due to issues already of age... Not to mention the conventions, not to mention the replacements. And, speaking of interinity, we came to the management of the OPEs, and we came to that worrying fact of more than 33% interinity. And that happens, as I said, because of the lack of planning, the lack of staffing renewal planning in recent years, which is going to assume that we have 7,000 teachers older than fifty-five years by 2020, that more than 4,000 people will retire, and a few hundred more immediately thereafter, and that we will continue without a plan from this government. I wonder what the Government is going to do about this situation that is coming around the corner. During the years 2013 and 2014 OPE were not convened; in the year 2015 one of 275 places is convened, also counting on some place of the year 2014. Years in which, on the other hand, the Government of Spain of the People's Party also prohibits or limits calls for public employment. But we are now talking about the management of the 2017 OPE. On 23 December, almost practically preparing dinner the following day, the government sent the first information to the trade union representation. On December 30, at two noon, a second information is sent, already with a proposal of 818 places of Primary, Secondary and FP. And after receiving different proposals, a final one is sent, I understand, on January 8th. I don't know if the dates, I think almost pointed out, are indicative of something. If, in my opinion, they are improvisation and lack of planning, they are contempt for the union representation of teaching staff, and they are contempt for the educational community of the public system. Considering this situation, we believe together in the parliamentary group of Podemos that we have to keep the OPE of 2017, yes, but we think the call is too bad. He does not answer the necessity of public instruction, and the calling of OPE has, as I have said, been improvised. We also know that this OPE does not solve the problem of the stability of his teachers, but if he does not announce it, then there will be delays again. From Elkarrekin We believe that what would have to be done is already planning the 2018 OPE. And for that, in addition to this non-legislative proposal, which is going to come forward, by the signatures it has, I understand, there should be a budgetary commitment. But we think that not only should we talk about the 2018 OPE: we think that, given this situation that comes over us, we have to start planning at least the whole of the legislature; to make the annual OPEs concrete for the whole of the legislature. In the document of the pact of government between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi commit themselves to provide greater stability and quality in the employment of teachers, with annual calls from OPE. I think it is time – and that is why we did not sign that transaction – to be able to trust those words of that agreement, and to move from that role to reality, so that we do not let the time pass as it has with this year. Improvisation needs to be set aside and a model agreed with the trade union, contracting and access side to solve the structural problem I mentioned. On the other hand, we think the sector table needs to be reinforced. Don't just call on us to share diagnostics around the planet's state, call them, or send e-levels, and also to guarantee the stability of the map, to agree and direct the measurements. The unions, not only defending the rights of the professors, have several proposals in education, but the Eescal educational division knows that in order to improve the stability and cultivation of the Eescal educational system. In short, a quality public education system requires greater budgetary stability, greater planning of management, not only, but also and above all, important, of the labour issue of the teaching staff. The high interinity results in the rotation of the faculty in the centers, which means, as you know, as the department knows, the instability of the staff, the inability to plan the schools, and therefore a reduction in the quality of our education, that of all, public education. A greater job stability of teachers will therefore have an impact on the quality of education, and therefore also on the quality of life of pupils in Euskadi. Because that vital uncertainty cannot be tolerated for hundreds – or thousands – of workers in Euskadi. Because it is true that we want this OPE to move forward, because we know that there are people who are preparing it, because we know that, although it does not solve the problem of interinity, because what it does is to solve a small replacement rate, we know that it is important that it comes forward. But that is not why we are going to endorse the mismanagement of the call for this OPE and the mismanagement of the last few years. That is why I am announcing that our group is going to abstain from this proposal, so I have explained it so far. Because we think, and I say it again, that this high rate of indwelling is the result of many years of lack of planning in the Department of Education of the Basque Government, because this problem, rather than being solved, is getting worse, and I think we need to give it a solution as soon as possible so that these debates do not have to be done in four or eight years' time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u87	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u88	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Good afternoon, everyone. We are here to say that our group tabled an amendment to the whole of what the proposing group had proposed, and that in the course of the talks, which I personally thank Mrs Sagardui, we managed to reach a consensus initiative. In that consensual initiative, or in that amendment to the consensus as a whole, a number of things have been incorporated which our group called for. Of course, some that was logical, such as the fact of equality, merit, capacity, etc., but that would appear expressly. And another is the presence of the Englishman in this call. We will be told that we are even heavy in our persistence, but let me give you some information on why this is our position. The Council of Europe for 2020 calls for 75% of young people aged 15 and over to be self-employed in English, to be able to live in English, and currently in the rest of Europe they are 42%, in the rest of Spain they are 27%, and we have no data on Basquedi, because the report of the School Council does not detail them. He simply says that there are great shortcomings in this. Let me give you some more data. Let's see, let's go to primary. In Primary we only have behind us, in the introduction of English in teaching, the cities of Ceuta and Melilla. And in Secondary (of the public we are talking about) we have ahead Castilla-León, Madrid, Aragón, Castilla-La Mancha, Murcia, Andalusia, Extremadura, Canarias and Navarra. That is our position, that is our position in the introduction of English. If we analyze the concerts, we get better, because we're in fourth place, but now we're talking... because this is an OPE for public school. Then, of course, we may be told that we are obsessed, but, let's see, the Basque scene has always been the world. Our stage is not a diagonal that goes from Santurce to Rivabellosa and ends the triangle in Irun. No, no, Our stage is the world, it has always been, and in the world today there is a frank language. Let me give you some examples of how important it is. We've had contacts with the FP world. The FP, although their places have been removed from this OPE, the FP is very concerned, because they explained it graphically: the engineer designs a machine, but the one who builds it, then dismantles it, takes it to Poland, re-builds it, explains how it gets started, answers the phone when something goes wrong, and returns to Poland to fix it, it's someone..., is a superior FP technician. And that senior FP technician has to do all that work in the English language, and if our scenario is the world, we need it. Fortunately, one of our two languages, which is Spanish, allows us to have a relationship with 300 million or so human beings on the planet. But we need the lingua franca. That's why we insist. Let us see, it has been a little difficult for us to agree to deal with this amendment. And why has it been difficult for us? Because we believe that this is an amendment that is full of goodwill, but it seems to us that it will be very difficult to carry it out. And why is it going to be very difficult to carry it out? Because we are going to ask teachers to have a high level of Basque – the one we ask of everyone – but also to have a level of Basque enough to give the subjects in English, to be able to throw us into the world, and we are afraid that there will be no. So, gentlemen, I am going to say a sacrilege in this House, yes, a sacrilege, because I believe that these things are something untouchable. Yes, yes, sir! Yes, yes! I suggest to you that in order to get those teachers who are able to give the subjects in English we reduce somewhat the level of euskera we ask of you, and then... [[Berber]] See? Oh, the pyre! We're missing the pyre! Now go out and blame Rajoy, because I assure you that since I came to this Parliament I have heard more about Rajoy than any other subject. Well, why do we do it? But why do we do it? We believe that, of course, that teacher has to give an adequate level of Basque, but we believe that we will have to form it. You know why? Because many times we say "We have a dual linguistic heritage, we are rich because we have two languages", and that is true, but when one has a double heritage, let's put when one has two houses (one here and one on holiday), it has to fix two facades, it has to fix two roofs, it has to change two kitchens... In other words, being rich and having a dual heritage, and in this case a dual linguistic heritage, requires an investment. So, our proposed sacrilegious is that: please ask for an adequate and sufficient level of euskera to hold a conversation, but make it easier for more people who are able to give their English lessons to introduce themselves to those OPEs, and then for those people to train them to give the level we ask of euskera. Eta zuek ore ango didazue nor euskararen kontra nagoela, éta hori ez da egia, ez da batare egia. Baina konprenitsen due horrella hippedazuela and I accept it. As I was saying yesterday, well, we're used to being the bad guys in the movie, but what we're using is reason. If rationally we want to prepare our young people... And I just gave them the data, huh! I will remind you: in the public in Euskadi they are only, in experiences, that it is not in a bilingualism, in bilingual experiences, 22%, and the rest of Spain in the public is 42.8 %. So, if we rationally want to address this, if the Basques' scenario has always been the world, if we do not want to lock ourselves up in a maximum length of 120 kilometers for one side and 120 kilometers for another (because there is no more, it does not give for more the Basque Autonomous Community), please put the means. So, the last thing I'm gonna tell you. That is the first reason why it has been difficult for us to reach consensus, and the second, and I am sorry to make this criticism, is because, in the time that I have been in this Parliament, and as my colleagues have told me too, I am appreciating that the Government is being led by a kind of self-congratulation: everything is fine, everything is wonderful, everything is going... And I don't know if it's self-congratulation or self-defense, but, in either case, it's the feeling they're projecting. So, let's see, self-complacency is the first step towards paralysis, and paralysis is the stage where everyone else passes us. I'll give you an example quickly. Speaking to Castile-Leon's advisor – who, by the way, has a great affection, a great affection for our counselor and speaks with great sympathy about her – we were talking about her results in the PISA report and said to me: "Shut up, shut up, I'm very worried, because, first, people may think that they have to throw themselves into the pot, and then more... We used to go first in math, and we went down to second place. We're already preparing backup plans for mathematics." That's the attitude. That's the attitude: to see what we lack, to see what we don't have, and not to self-pity what we've achieved, which has been a lot, but self-pity will paralyze us, and paralysis will make us pass. So, even so, we want to give the government a vote of confidence, and we will support it. But we do want to announce that we are going to be very persistent, very constant, and very heavy if necessary, in the follow-up to this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u89	Thank you, Mrs. De Bengochea. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u90	Thank you, President. I would like to thank Mrs Bengoechea for her support, although it has not been very clear to me whether she supports a piece, or in part, or with much or little conviction. But, finally, welcome is the fact that you have signed a text of an amendment, which does not say many of the things that you have said here in the rostrum, but we are going to take it for granted. And I would also like to thank the representative of Elkarrekin Podemos, who has made a constructive contribution to the debate that I thank him for. What has surprised us Socialists is the initiative of Euskal Herria Bildu. A lot. It has surprised us a lot, coming as it comes from a formation that is said of the left and that it promised in campaign, and it also repeated in the investiture session, that it wanted to create no more than 40,000 public jobs. Because to propose that, and to delay at the same time the call for places for this year, the truth is that it seems quite incomprehensible to us. Another thing is that it seems insufficient to you. So are we. It also looks like the trade unions. We have no problem recognizing that. How is it not going to be insufficient, if there are at this time so many thousands of educators that every year are waiting to cover interinities, when there are so many thousands that are going to leave their jobs for retirement in the coming years...! But, finally, if giving stability to more than eight hundred people and opening the door to quality in their employment is insufficient, then think how insufficient it would be not to give even the opportunity for these people to do so, when they are already preparing, as you know perfectly. Therefore, you should explain to them why you do not want them to attend this call. We have not really seen any reason for that delay that is being requested, and that in a straight line, that is, we are being told that next year there will be another call and more places. There will be, Mrs. Ubera! But there will be already! That is what we say in our amendment, if you have bothered to read it: let this call be made, as far as technically possible, and also that for what remains of the legislature – which is what the representative of Podemos came to say annual calls are planned, if we really want to cover at least the retirement replacement rate. More squares, yeah. From a preliminary analysis of present and future needs, too. With social dialogue, of course. Through the mechanisms established for this, the sectoral table, with all the improvements that are to be established in it. And it is true that there have been union reproaches, with different nuances. In this case, the Socialists take note and ask that these views be taken into account for the planning planned below. Because not all unions have said the same thing. You were talking here only about what you call the union majority, but there is more life in the union world, and you have the right to be heard as well. And they didn't say the same thing to each other. The former, UGT and Commissions, have said that it seemed insufficient to them, a criterion that we share, and others have said other things. And I understand that you want to come here and act as a representative and put a voice to the LAB union or the ELA union, I do not deny that it can be your role, but, finally, you should also speak as a parliamentary representative of a political party, which also have to ensure the general interests of the citizenry, and not just for partial interests, in this case, of two unions. In any case, in both form and substance, a special effort must be made in the very necessary places in FP which, as is well known, this government has assumed as a fundamental challenge of this legislature which is reflected in the government agreement. And only one of these unions has asked that this call not be held. The rest, the other unions, are currently working with the seekers to prepare themselves as best as possible for the squares. We don't understand Bildu, honestly. Just over two years ago, you yourselves, who are presenting this initiative, signed a proposal with us, the Socialist Group, which was not approved. You and we agreed that the absence of OPE calls, Mrs Ubera, the absence of OPE calls, was generating an interim bag, which is what you denounce now. You and we are asking for planning to reduce that eventuality. You remember, don't you? Remember. And, now that that challenge is assumed as a government commitment, because it is in the document, read it (I think you read little, even though you talk a lot), now that your own demands are met, even if it is insufficiently, now, precisely now, is when you say that a public call for employment for education is delayed. It is quite incomprehensible and rather undefendable. Anyway, you laugh a little, because I think half of the educational world is perplexed by your stance. Perplexed, I can assure you. The Socialists, however, do the same in the government as we do in the opposition, in that case with you. What we did too, by the way, when we ruled before. Because I remind her that she has two legislatures, with the public coffers quite tainted, the then Education Councillor fulfilled her commitment to the unions. The newborn Rajoy Government advanced the limitations established for these calls, and the socialist Government then in Euskadi took advantage of the last chance it had so that 2,500 people could get a place that would give them stability and also, of course, educational projects in schools, and hence the quality of education that Basque boys and girls deserve. By the way, a stability project accompanied by another OPE, in this case in Sanidad, of 2,600 places. That is, more than 5,000 squares stabilized at that time. And now we need more, of course, and we are aware that that is needed in all areas of the Administration. The Councillor of Public Governance acknowledged this in his appearance: there will be a lot of retirements, because the Basque administration started two decades ago, and simply because of a vegetative problem the retirement age is coming, and an urgent generational relief must be put in place, which is essential. A very important part of this staff has been incorporated for a long time now, and in the next decade it will retire to a large extent. Only that, only that data, would have merited that the Government of Spain would not have been so strict, to say the least, with the replacement rates, and so limiting in the possibility of renewing the templates, but we already know that it has not been a given government precisely to be understood with other places and with other governments like this. Now, however, when the possibility is opened and when the step has been taken that you and we had called for only two years ago with insistence, it is when Bildu takes away that proposal and that need. We're just going to say the same thing we've been saying: we're betting to keep the call for a public job offer on an annual basis, not just for this year; we want to keep the OPE planned for this whole year; we want to plan the stability of staff and the generational relay in 2018, and of course looking for the agreement with the workers' representatives. And all this without losing sight of what we believe is fundamental in this debate, which is to maintain an unequivocal commitment to quality public education, to ensure equality and excellence, to enable children to acquire competences, to acquire knowledge, and to train in values (of which we have also spoken in this morning's initiative), in values of democracy, freedom and respect for the different. And for all that, to achieve that goal, we need professionals, trained professionals, convinced and committed. And for that we need those professionals to work with quality and dignity. And we hope that these 818 new professionals can be incorporated into public education.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u91	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u92	Thank you, Madam. Good evening, chiefs and congressmen. As the Board of Education has more than once expressed it in this legislature, it sees a necessity for the stability of the professionals of education. It's a factor in improving education without being a single one. We were committed to our program to perfect our education system, as you know. And among many actions, we would have published a public offering every year. We all agree that when the EH collect team says that the change in the education system, the changes of the model, the various proportions of the different life of the country (many and agreed) and that the interview between all the agents is necessary. In the matter we are speaking of, the interviews are even predicted by the decree which regulates the conditions of work: the sectorial and planning committees. These are the parts that he uses and he who has to use them. But we don't agree with the Podemos team, a public offer of 2017 in the sense of improvisation. The Education Department has a short, middle-term planning plan. But how can you say that? In the course of 2015-2016 a public offer of employment with 275 places was successfully carried out, the maximum that the current legislation allowed. In the course of 2016-2017, as previously announced by the Government, a public job offer was held with 577 places, again the maximum that the current legislation allowed, which was one hundred percent of the net losses of fixed teaching employees that occurred in 2015. For the course 2017-2018, in the first instance an OPE of 818 places was proposed; after meetings with social agents, with the centers, with their leaders, the result of these negotiations, a call of 740 places will come out first. For 2018, different scenarios are already being worked on, because it is the Government's commitment for this legislature to maintain the annual job call in Education. All this, Mrs. Ubera, is known to the unions and they've known it through a syctorical meeting. You have also requested new numbers in the proposal given you, when we have the necessary ones. What do we want? stay in meetings early and afternoons, and don't go any further in the meantime? If there is anything to be said, and there is nothing to be decided, let it be done there: business and negotiation, planning committees and sactorial tables. Then we can charge the government that the committee and the team have their time forming. Then you'll accuse the government that calls delay. Tell the people you want to postpone the public offer in education, you tell them. I think it's incredible. Because the government resists to refuse? It is plain, when the Government obeys its word (that you call it a political decision? and therefore it is not in your interest. Isn't that political decision? Do not tell the people that they must prepare themselves; Do not let them be protected: The villagers are ready. The efforts of the professionals, and the results which they had taken, were likewise shown in the earlier summonss. In fact, during the phone call in 2015, 500 people didn't get a job, even though the opposition was over. And I must say, Mrs. Bengochea, I don't care at all if we can be able to get professionals to us in English, but I'm sure we've prepared them with all the quality of giving them one language or the other. That doesn't bother me at all. So, in my opinion, we must continue this way: the language of our country, eucaia, soliciting, and gradually spreading this pattern into English. Not a problem for professionals, Mrs. Bengoeche. We'll see about that. Is this call enough? No, it always needs to be improved. For instance, we have already proclaimed to the Spanish Government a right to make the essential decisions of public employment, and we will continue to proclaim, that the proportion of the plates which ought to be offered should not be limited by the regulations of the State. We shall continue to do so, and we shall certainly be able to throw out the squares which our administration requires, and give proper answer to our wants. But as long as we move in the field where the law allows us. Our party, the Jeltist Party of Euz, have a remarkable place among the mills in education, to advance to perfection, to wager for an incluleric and innovative school. And in order to achieve these ends, one must wager for the stability of the teachers and encourage the confession of the professors' profession. That's what we're doing: We develop public employment offers calls, stabilize the system, and give professionals a new opportunity. In the proposal that we have put before you, agreed with the Socialist Group and the People's Group, the result of the negotiation, we also include the intention to make progress on another of the commitments made, such as the extension of multilingual linguistic projects to all the centres in the Basque Country. In this particular case, the extension of training in English, without complexes and without fears, as I have said. We have trained staff and professionals who can take care of this challenge with quality. That's the proposition we've proposed to you. Is there any other measurements we can't control? Nobody says no and says no. The department will discuss them in the planning committee, and, if necessary, you must agree and start. But, of course, let's not say that we're going to end the temporary whole thing, because it would be a lie. Substitutions are necessary and will continue to be necessary, but let us try to make them as little as possible. In the meantime let us proceed on our way, accepting with sincerity, that the delay of the calling of a work offering will bring no benefit in improving our education system, or in the object of creating a social employment in our own country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Passing on the day of the answers, the representative of the EH Collectors, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u94	The best thing to discuss is to discover and discover that behind discussions and data there are schools. Data: Areabalt, Kurtzbearri, the Second Education School, Interinity 61 %61; Acotitia, Xabier Muibe, interinity % 55; Lasart-Oria, Landa, 54; Eibar, Ittio, 52; Oion, 1976; Cervantes, 46; 15%; Samania, Lagarian, 66; Gobeta, %5; 71, Unmunga, %4, and I can put a long list. We're the ones who brought this initiative after listening to the teachers' representatives. We don't say we do all the things right, but we try to listen, listen, to teachers, to transfer the petitions for education units here. And all of them, the majority and the minority, because we like to hear everyone, start from UGT, and end up in ELA, they all agree with the conference of 2017. For here it was not a date, but here it was a question of making a summons, agreed and planned. And it wasn't done: "Don't put things on the table, make no agreement, no interview, no nothing. It's only done here, as you say in your corrections, to transfer, to communicate, and to point out what's in it. There's no interviews here. And sometimes he tries to open up other discussions in these discussions. And we, Mrs. Bengochea, desire to open the discussions of languages, I assure you. We tried to open up the discussions of languages in the previous legislation. But a clue. You're in a mess. Right now a study has been issued, an international examination, made of all the community of the State, and our students have the best English level in the state, with 57,90 indexes. And the report of ISEI-IVEI, Mrs. Bengoeche, in 2015, said that our students have gone down on the eucalypice level. In high school, in fourth grade, we've gone down 4,8 points, and in high school, we've gone down 2% in high school. So some of you take advantage of these discussions to use English in a malicious manner, because we also want an eucalypous eloquence of eucalyptic schools, open to the world, but with euphora. You use it to beat him to the eucalyptus and use him in a malicious manner. But the worst of all is that the government, either intentionally or involuntarily, frequently enters this game, and is always defeated by the eternal, the loser of our students, the loser of our society. Bestetik... Mr. Pastor, if I'm not mistaken, we all have the same time to talk, which is ten minutes in the first round and five minutes in the second round. Well, today, as we are the proposing group, in the first round we have fifteen minutes. But apart from talking we read, and apart from reading we try to be with the agents of the educational community, we try to listen and listen to all the agents. Eta, lehen esan dudan bezala, agent guztiek gauza bera exacteten dute. You tell us, Mr Pastor, that ensuring the interests of the trade union majority is partial. And to care for the interests of the minority what is it, to care for the general interest? I think we have to listen to everyone, eh! And here you proclaim, and often praise the representative of democracy. And you praise the function and value of this legislature, when it is frequently neglected by the government. If, therefore, you so praise the representative democracy, that it is less to those who represent our education's authority than to hear the representatives of the professors. And it was only this time that we asked for, as we are at the beginning of legislation, to set the sector table running, to start the conversation, to agree. And that's the proposition we came here today. Here the question is not for the time being, but here it is to agree with all, and to pay attention to the tenor of education, because here he does not resist the provisionalness of the work with the public offering, he does not answer. And that's not where we're going. That requires another integral planning and a deeper. How many people are going to move to that test for 740 squares? How many people do we have to move? About five thousand? Do you think that we can use them like that every year and make them move the teachers, the schools, with their influence? It's not better for another kind of planning, which will really consider...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u95	Mrs. Ubera, go and finish...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u96	... People, college, education quality? I don't know what this quantity (as if it were a water-tank) is supposed to mean every year to keep a marchetin root going, and represent what we're not doing. Eta zuen zuzenketan was Azkenean ikusten from kontraesanak zentzuk diren. Esaten duzue "continue with the interlocution". What interview? If there has been none, there has been none! Then you say "always through the channels legally provided for in the Labour Relations Decree". If you're the first people who don't comply with the law! But, yes, then on the second point..., aurreko puntuarekiko kontraesanean erortzen zarete and you say, of course, that there has been no negotiation, because what is being moved is "maintaining the call for public job offer 2017 within the specified deadlines, as transferred to the planning commission".
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u97	Mrs. Ubera, go and finish...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u98	Well, I'm glad you've had two details, because you're moving here when an initiative is being introduced. One that's been posted at our station, you've got a note on the website to inform us. And then, on the other hand, you've been calling for Monday when there's just the sort of discussions that are just about to represent a schedule, not a calendar, or a building. Please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Your time is over a long time ago...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u100	... Take education in a more serious way.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u101	Thank you. Together, Poedemus. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u102	Thank you. Mrs. Bengochea, the English business of course must be discussed, but never confounded with the Basque. I don't think that's any good for discussion. We agree with our team to forget this discussion, and we will present our example, a trilling model, always as if it were a case for euphora. I agree with the point he made about the complacency we see in the government. That is why we were talking about the mismanagement of the calls of the OPEs, both this and that of previous years. That's why we were also suspicious of what's going to happen later, and if we have to rectify and say, "Hey, look, it's done well," I'm the first one to say it. And I think that lack of planning is also the result of that self-congratulation that things are going well here, or that image that things are going well here. For interinality is not new, and this is the result of the management of many years, of the last years, of the governments that have ruled this country. And I have mentioned the Government of Spain, but it is clear that we mention it, because it is a nightmare. It will be democratic, it will be voted, but it is a nightmare for this country and for the working class to suffer that government. And, Mrs Sagardui, one of the elements for which we have not signed the proposal as proposed to us – and the dialogue has been there, in this there has been – is that it talks about continuing the dialogue. And we ask what the question is, because what I am talking about is that there has been information and emails on Christmas to the unions, to the social part, of information, without the possibility of reaching agreements. It is true that there have been contributions, but it does not seem to us to be serious that way of interlocuting. That's why he said we couldn't sign it, and because we still can't have that confidence they were asking us for the 2018 call. And I hope, as I said, to end up trusting – I hope, I have no problem in doing so at the end of the legislature (I doubt it, but I hope I can do so) – because unions also in the field of public education are a collective that is fundamental not only for labour relations – I said it – but also for the definition of public policies. Because an advanced democracy, like the one we assume we have here in Euskadi, needs more democratic, more transparent labour relations in which the trade union side is an active part in defining these policies. And it was said now, is that this OPE is no longer a matter even of trade union majority, but is that the OPE, last year's OPE and that of this one, all trade unions have accepted it. It is true that they are obviously training so that people can enter – obviously, each and every one of them, I imagine – but that they need greater legitimacy and greater participation, and that the government takes the participation of trade unions seriously. I therefore reiterate our group's abstention on this point, because this has not been done so far. We need more elements to be able to trust that next year's OPE and planning will be real, and at that time we will also present our alternatives to them, which, of course, will go through a much clearer and more direct dialogue, both with the trade union side and also with the other mention I had forgotten to make, which is with Heige, who is the Association of Fathers and Mothers of the Basque Public School, who have also criticized this OPE and the management of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u103	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u104	Well, Mrs. Sagardui, I'm glad to see your safety, because in the end that's what we want, that we truly have the capacity to provide that faculty to our students and our education sector. I mean, I'm glad you're safe. We continue to doubt (because we have confidence in you we have signed the transactional), we continue to doubt, but it is absurd to discuss futures. We'll see about that. We'll see about that. And with regard to the other interventions, then, well, do you believe that I have chosen the sacrilege word for making a joke? No, no! I've chosen it because there are things you can't talk about, and if you talk about, in a world that needs etsaiak and victimize yourself, it becomes that. That is why I have chosen that word, but it is a proposal that we make if things don't work out. Otherwise, as I said before, we will continue to be very vigilant. And that's the last thing I wanted to say. You say Mr. Rajoy is a nightmare. Well, it has the endorsement of 9 million votes, and it's also our government. And it's also our government. I do not think that being a nightmare is to start presenting very, very hopeful economic results, which in the reduction of unemployment, for example, are superior to what we have here. I really am serious about this: I came to this Parliament recently, but here Mr Rajoy's name is heard five times for every time Mr Urkullu's name is heard. I just can't understand it. And, I don't know, well, maybe we can start talking about Zapatero too... This is gonna be so much fun! Anyway, Mrs. Sagardui, I hope what you plan is accomplished.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u105	Thank you, Mrs. De Bengochea. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u106	Good. Look, Mrs Ubera, you and our group on this subject of education, on the aspects of education, I think we have more coincidences on many occasions than discrepancies. We agree that the Department of Education has a wide margin of improvement. You know that we have been demanding, very demanding on many occasions with the Department of Education, and we will remain so within the Government. We agree with you that there is a lack of teachers, that there are excessive interinities, that we have to cover the replacement rate, that we have to make annual calls for places... In all that we agree. Now, after all that shared analysis, I do not come to the conclusion, and I do not understand how you arrive, that the solution to all that, immediately, is not to convene the OPE. I don't understand. Or delay it, as you say. I just didn't get it! But I do not understand it and most of the public do not understand it, and many teachers and many representatives of the educational world. Believe me, I mean it. I'm not telling you to listen to the union majority and not to listen to the other, or the other way around. No! No! I say that all trade unions have had a fundamental coincidence: that the OPE is insufficient. I also told him that I recognize him. But that's where the coincidences come in. Then there are some – which I believe is more reasonable, and I defend that criterion – who say that, despite being insufficient, we must call it, and at the same time we must launch new calls, and at the same time we must set the commitment of annual calls. Because only in the last three years, for example (you will have the data, because it has been following a question from you to the counselor), in the years 2014, 2015 and 2016 have retired in this community 1,912 professionals of non-university education. And this, man, will have to be recognized that at least covers almost half of the retirements that have occurred in these three years. Do you have room for improvement? Of course. Can the dialogue with trade unions be improved? So too, so too. There's no doubt about it. But all this cannot be an obstacle to reaching a conclusion that no one but you, as you have seen in this House, shares. The solution is not to delay the OPE of Osakidetza [[sic]] The solution is to put in place immediately the forecasts and planning necessary, at least in this legislature, to cover in the best possible way and eliminate those ratios that you were counting here from school to school, from interinities that occur in Basque public education. And the solution is, of course – and in that we have no problem of coincidence with you – to make a bet decided by public education. We already know that the Basque education system has public education, the concerted education, the ikastolas... Finally, we bet, and I understand, that you, too, fundamentally, for public education. If for something we have distinguished the socialists in this government and in the previous ones it is for our commitment to education, and there are José Ramón Recalde, Fernando Buesa and Isabel Celaá herself. I do not think anyone can doubt the Socialists' commitment to education as a fundamental axis of our political action in the Basque Country. I don't doubt your commitment to education. Don't doubt ours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u107	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians represent the team. Lady cider, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u108	Thank you, Madam. Mr. Pastor, I'm sorry to say that EH Bildu does not agree with the need for us to have annual OPEs. No, he didn't say, he didn't say that. He said he didn't agree with that, that he wanted another system. There is one thing we all agree on, and it is that the stability of teachers is one of the factors that influences the improvement of the quality of education; that it is necessary to reduce interinity so that teachers can get involved with motivation in the educational projects of their centres, so that they can set up work teams that generate new proposals. To this end, public offers of employment are the main measure envisaged in the administration, of the main ones. And also so that so many families can come up with life projects thanks to access to stable and quality employment. But these processes involve people, people we have a responsibility to offer calls that have guarantees to celebrate and security to resolve. But at the same time, the rights of persons who offer themselves to the offer of labour, if they cannot be fulfilled. Why? Only to convince you more. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, I find it difficult to understand that some of the speeches we have heard today continue to hold that delay in the call, that not to call OPE 2017, because that is the result of that delay. The Government will maintain the commitment of its programme, the commitment to generate quality employment, and it will convene this OPE, and immediately it will start negotiating the characteristics of the next call. Negotiate. It does not mean that one is always right, but negotiate, Mrs Ubera, because the process of negotiation, which some and some claim, is always carried out through the organs envisaged in this respect, and it is long, requires calm in contrast, listening, adaptation, in order to be able to culminate in an offer as consensual as possible, as much as possible. That's why we can't wait any longer. Wasn't it you, Mrs. Ubera, who have proclaimed that there should be more public jobs in your program? And now, because we offer the others, you say no? I've heard you say "Marchetin routine" twice before; first I don't know what I understand, but then I've heard you again. When you can play the jobs options and the future of teachers, we're "market-rooting"? The medium we've signed is clear and it summarizes our position; interview, planning, stability, gambling for public job offers, public employment, future... This means carefully summarizes our commitment to the euscal educational system, to the professionals of education, and to the origin of public public employment. And I must say more: Within the work union, the sactorial table (in this EPE) has been collected twice, and is a table for planning, which is called for Monday. And for what? To discuss business with calls. That's the procedure. The government will keep its word and continue to obey the promise given to our country, our people, to a worthy employment of quality. That's why I'm asking you to vote for the stability of professionals in the educational system and for everyone who's in favor of public employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Now that the discussion is over, we will vote the text of the original proposition of the EH Collectation Parlamentary Group. We can vote... [[Berber]] What? Dot-dot? Do you want their text to vote with a dot? And apart from your addition correction? We'll vote after your change correction. Mrs. Ubera... No problem. How would that be? One by one? ...with each other and the second apart. Okay, first and third. Then we vote again: First and third points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 28; the opponents, 46; white; 1,0; abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u110	So the first and third points have not been accepted. We'll vote for the second point next. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters 18; the opponents are 57; the whites are 0,0; abstaining.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u111	So the second point is not accepted. Now, together, we vote for the changement correction of the Podemos team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; 1,11; counters, 64; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u112	So it's not accepted. And next, the Euscal Populars, the Basque Socialists and the Eucarias have signed the middle-line correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the pros, 46; the contrary, 18; white, 0; abstainments, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u113	So we have accepted the half-path correction. Number of points in theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos, as a parlamentary party, concerning the labour of women, and a study of its consequences. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Together, Mrs. Arana, representative of the Podemos, has the word to suggest and defend her.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u114	Hello, everyone. Thank you, Mr. President. Partners, congressmen. For Elkarrekin Podemos, and for me in particular as a woman, it is a real pride to bring an initiative that, although it seems simple, has an important depth burden on an issue that affects one hundred percent of society, including men, but that affects us women fully in our lives. For Elkarrekin We can move towards equality of women and men is a priority objective of work, it is a central point of our programme, because we understand that it is an absolutely essential condition for us to talk about transformation, democracy and social justice. We have been working, and we will continue to do so, from the academic and political approach that feminism gives us, in plural, because women are diverse, and that is also reflected when we think and generate knowledge. In this sense, we echo the long history of demands, reflections and proposals of feminist organizations in Euskadi. We recognize, appreciate and welcome the great progress that has been made so far. But, look, the women and feminists, the men who are committed and who are accompanying us in this task, we insist, we have to remember and remind the new generations that there is still much to do, that patriarchy is impregnated in the DNA of our society and our culture, that they go hand in hand and feed back. The economic, social, political and cultural reality is changing, and with it changes the expressions of inequality, which are taking new forms, mutating and raising other questions and challenges. Therefore, we must always be attentive and attentive to the impact that all changes have on the situation of women and men, on their daily lives, on their opportunities for access to rights, and, above all, on their actual exercise. Taking the popular saying "From the saying to the fact there is a passage", we urge this House to be especially vigilant with the real possibility of women and men exercising the rights we have in the rules we have promulgated from this Parliament. This is what is technically called a prior gender impact assessment. For human rights, for social justice, because this is established by the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, European legislation and our Law on Equality of Women and Men, we must be responsible in this regard. However, today we are not going to stop at this point, because we know that from Emakunde we have been working on this line, and we are interested in deepening this issue later and in particular. The causes and consequences of the inequalities of women and men are many, deeply rooted in our society and, as we have already mentioned, changing. Inequalities produce Machist violence, and at the same time violence has the task of reproducing inequalities. Violence against a woman is a warning, a warning for all of us. For young women who decide to go dancing on a Saturday night, for those who enjoy the popular holidays, for those who do not want to continue with their male partner, for those who decide to travel alone. Being free, exercising our rights and freedoms, can have serious consequences. Machist violence is multiple, it is exercised at all socio-economic and cultural levels, in all the spaces we travel and live in our daily lives, in the public and private spheres, in our homes, in the streets, in education, in health, in the labour market, in politics, in the media, in social networks, in the spaces of social participation. That is, in each and every space. There is consensus on the necessary revision of legislation on violence. To do this, we need to have all the possible elements. On this occasion, in a context of economic crisis, in order to re-think with responsibility the rules on violence, we are certain that we need to know in more detail some aspects of the differentiated impact that the economic situation has on the daily lives of women and men. In Europe, women account for 60% of the group of those who work and who get worse, according to the ILO. The wage gap between women and men is gradually increasing, as the wage scale increases. In Euskadi, the wage gap is 25%. Emakunde in one of her studies indicates that women account for more than 80% of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion. In October 2006, Emakunde presented data on severe residential exclusion: 119,567 women were living in inadequate or unsafe housing. These modalities include situations such as living under threat of eviction, exchanging care work for accommodation, or under threat of violence by the couple or the family. The same study states the following on the labour market: women have higher unemployment rates and worse working conditions than men. This is due to factors such as the later incorporation into the labour market, the subsidiary role of employment and the female wage within the economic structure of the household, the assumption of a greater burden of reproductive work and household care, the lower presence in positions of responsibility, greater participation in the submerged economy and informal employment, or discrimination against women of reproductive age. In the light of this and other data, we bring a proposal to put the magnifying glass and deepen through a study on the incidence of the lack of economic autonomy and the precarious work that women suffer in the macho violence. Something seemingly simple, but which, as I have already explained, contains, in our opinion, remarkable traces of truth to illuminate some factors that affect these violences. The results of this study will be key contributions to a comprehensive law for sexist violence, and this law should be the result of joint work with the feminist movement, trade unions, private enterprise, judiciary and political parties. It will also be an important contribution to putting in place measures to promote women's economic autonomy through socio-occupational integration and other means, including measures that respond to the specific needs of women who have gone through situations of sexist violence in the home or in the field of employment. Any rule, administrative act, programme, project, action or policy that is implemented for the eradication of sexist violence is necessarily formulated from a certain social interpretation of the problem. That is why we briefly share some brushstrokes of the words we have chosen not by chance for this proposition. We are talking about economic autonomy because we understand that inclusion in the labour market should be only one way for women to make decisions about their lives as freely as possible. In this regard, we advocate income security as a right not linked to employment or social services. Let me give an example: individualizing the perception of GIR, that is, that individuals can collect it individually instead of living units, would be a measure that could help not to foster the economic dependence of women or young or dependent persons, for whom family support becomes a condemnation that prevents their emancipation and sentence them to dependency. Another concept is that of sexist violence. In plural, yes, because women suffer multiple forms of violence throughout our lives in all the spaces we travel and inhabit. When called domestic abuse or gender-based violence, in singular, physical violence is imposed on all other forms of violence in the collective imagination. The collective imagination also imposes the image of the violence exercised by the couple or former couple, and the use of terms as domestic or intra-family refers to a phenomenon that is limited to a private sphere and, therefore, to the exclusion of public and social action. On the concept of gender, we know that it is a tool for the analysis of very powerful inequalities, as long as it is used in a feminist political framework. However, we have seen how in recent years it has spread, it has come to be used in a technocratic way, and it has been emptied of content, and, wrongly, it is very often used as a synonym for women. We also say sexist violence because it is the term consensual in the last feminist days. And we use it because in two words it is also capable of making visible the causes of this violence, while the other denominations are diffused and can lead to confusion in the understanding and scope of this violation of human rights suffered by women. Today we have been able to agree on the content of this initiative with the parliamentary group of EH Bildu, and I trust that in this House we will achieve the necessary support to promote a political initiative for the sake of equality between women and men that is not hidden in technical or empty language, to address the inequality and violence that we suffer from the mere fact of being women, particularly in the social and economic spheres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, representing the Euskal Potula Group, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u116	Thank you, Mr. President. Good evening, President, chief of departments, members of the legislature. At this last point, we are discussing something important, and we are going to touch two definite things in this discussion: and the state of the victims of women's violence. The original proposal here proposed is to make a research on the poverty of the victims of violence and the exploitor of eloquence. As the popular party mentioned by Mrs. Arana of Podemos in this tribe, we think it's important to proceed to action. And that's why we've mentioned two points in our correction, exactly two points. On the one hand, we're asking Mr. Masters to make a law project against women violence. I don't think there'll be any objections here. In the end it was possible to sign a pact with the Jeltist Party and the Social Party, the projects in the government, and ask you to make a specific make-up for the Basque Mitch. And I said I thought there'd be no objections, because the president himself had committed an engagement on the subject of inquest. On the other hand, we ask that those who suffer violence against women are met with precise social programs, and we believe there will be no difficulty in this matter either. We have mentioned this point in the agreed proposition, because it appears in the form of a government signed between the Jestric Party and the Social Party. An important initiative, in our view, to debate today in this plenary, which is the last on the agenda of the plenary, but we consider it important that we talk here today about the precarious work of women, the wage gap... There are numerous studies. Mrs Arana has cited studies from Emakunde; we could cite numerous studies that refer to this issue, and which also number the wage gap at 24 %, the wage gap between men and women, and the differences that exist also in the field of work. Another issue that enables us to address this initiative is the situation of women victims of gender-based violence. The original initiative aims to address the impact of job insecurity and the poverty situation of women on the victims of gender-based violence, but I have to say that we, and seeing the path we have already taken in the legislation, although we obviously believe that we need to do more action and also legislate more, concrete actions in relation to combating the scourge of gender-based violence, which I believe is a shared issue... I say that we also have a tour in this House, when two or three legislatures, three legislatures in particular, we had the opportunity to make a presentation to talk about the violence that women suffer and measures to arbitrate, a set of measures in all areas in which the Basque Government also has action and competence. I would also like to stress that in this presentation the agreement was possible among all the groups, and therefore these measures were unanimously promoted by all the groups. That is why we consider it necessary, seeing the opportunity of this initiative, that concrete proposals and specific duties should be put into practice for the Basque Government, such as the revision of a bill on gender-based violence. I believe that here, moreover, there was a direct appeal to this commitment by the lehendakari in his investiture speech. And another of the issues that we considered appropriate in this initiative was to place duties on the Executive, made up of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, in connection with the implementation of socio-laboral integration programmes aimed at women victims of gender-based violence. Nor has there been, as it was in the end, an obstacle to incorporating these two issues into a compromise amendment, since this issue is also reflected in the government agreement itself between the two parties. Undoubtedly, violence against women, gender-based violence, gender-based violence, is one of the main objectives of achieving equality and, of course, constitutes one of the most serious attacks on fundamental rights, such as freedom, equality, security and non-discrimination. And, therefore, the public authorities, and in this case the Basque Government, which we urge through the compromise amendment that we have agreed with the Government, cannot be alien to this reality and must continue to legislate, adopting concrete measures, that is, acting in order not to stop and to be able to fight from different areas, and from an integral perspective to address this issue. It is important to address prevention, protection, care, and also, how not, to design customized plans for victims of gender-based violence. And in all this we cannot forget the children who are in the family environment, who are directly victims of gender-based violence. On the subject of job insecurity, I have already stopped, in the existing gender inequality, not only with regard to wages, but also with regard to decision-making positions. I have already referred to the difference of 24 %. That is why – and I am finalising – we believe that it is a good thing for the Government to put in a concrete text two very specific commitments in relation to gender-based violence and job insecurity that women may suffer, and that it should be translated into concrete actions, such as the inclusion in the legislative calendar, with a concrete commitment to speed up and prioritise all the steps leading up to the referral of the bill to the Basque Parliament in the near future. And also here the People's Party has shown its demand on numerous occasions, and also, seeing the failure of Mr Urkullu's previous government to comply with the legislative timetable, let us hope that this time, if you propose that it will be so, because we have put it at the first point in this agreement which you sign, it will forward a draft law against gender-based violence, and that it will obviously be done as quickly as possible. I also believe that it is very important to move forward on these issues, taking into account also the pact reached at the state level, a state pact between the People's Party, the Socialist Party and citizens, to reform the Law on Measures for the Comprehensive Protection against Gender Violence, and therefore, as a result of this pact, a study committee will be set up in the Congress of Deputies to also address specific measures and to move forward in addressing this issue. There are autonomous communities that also have specific laws for gender-based violence. We have the Equality Act of 2005, of 18 February, for the Equality of Women and Men, and it refers to gender-based violence. However, we believe it is opportune for this Government to bring, as I said, the bill. Therefore, we are satisfied with the agreement reached, because the two points that we took up in our amendment to the original initiative of the Podemos Group have been incorporated into the compromise amendment, and we therefore hope that, sooner than later, we will see that the Government fulfils the mandates, with the duties that this House places on it today. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u117	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Protect the representative of the EH team, Mrs. Houseland, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u118	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you. To begin with, I would like to tell you that I have come to speak to you on behalf of these ladies and gentlemen of Euskal Herria Bildu. I've been listening all day to what we're called talking about "sirs," and it's just a bench above all – and I'd say that in most matches equal – full of women, and it would be nice to start listening to "sirs and ladies," or other more inclusive terms. Life is a base and pretorous life, and the restrictions which are now taking place under the pretext of a crisis render the life of many more troublesome and more precious, especially the life of women. To this nature of life, this fundamental condition of man, we must meet with solutions in common, in opposition. We must get the universal frame of this life, which multiplicity does not suppose to be inequality or a separation. Amaia Pérez Orozco ikerlariak said that "if talking about stability of life is focusing on who makes the food", and she herself responds: "Yes and no. Of course, it's talking about that, but also wondering about megaprojects, free trade agreements or the balance of payments. What is singular is that all this we land on concrete subjects, with peculiar needs, with social relations and with specific positioning in this scandalous thing, in this capitalist heteropatriarchy." In this system, instead of being in the centre of human beings, economic profits are established and these benefits are opposed to living. They want to eliminate the differences of persons, and, yes, they are driven by violent circumstances. We women didn't have to answer the President in recent years, we've had to answer the pretors of life for a long time. Besides this, we have also had to answer to the consequences of the reductions. As in the Basque Country Women's March: "Pobrice and precertators have a woman's face." We have too much to do, but we lack a decent life. And someone will ask himself the effect of the murder of violence on this. That's big. Commecratizing the scope of work, dividing the care of care, and carrying it out, if we reach the social circle, vital lives. We're going to deactivate the effects of machista violence. That's why we think it's necessary for an examination, to see what kind of situation the Prefect encourages in women's lives. We've been on strikes and ratios of the agees in Biscare, and the little Muñoz of ELA said yesterday that the conflict hadn't been solved...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u119	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u120	Because most of the workers are women. That's right. The specialized violence that we women suffer, the want of labor conditions, the naturalized and normalizing preparation, is also violence. Even last week we talked about domestic workers, and put their conditions on the table, and today we have explained the state of the staff of the old people's establishments, and tomorrow we can talk about those who are in the factories, those who work at home, those who are unemployed... That's why we want to get a picture of normalized diversity in the sphere of work, and of violence, so that we can have it in front of our eyes and don't look at it another way. And we have to work this photo and insert it into the integral law of machista violence that requires it, because we must consider violence as thousands of faces, so that we may take the measures that the situation deserves and requires. There are points which are perfectly acceptable in the correction of the other groups of means, and of course we can't do anything against it. But it was important for us, for instance, on this first point, that we should look more closely about the peculiar state in which women live, and not so much upon the prerogative. But, you know, it's always interesting to have that kind of thing in front of your eyes. Second point: let them strengthen the undertakings which will promote the equality of women and men. Absolutely. You're talking about culture, and we've also made another suggestion about this, and we think that we're going to take steps together on that road. At the third point you talk about the law. A small score of terms, perhaps, which at least we do not like so much. It would be more interesting to turn this passive point of view than to mention the law in victims. Just because you put it on the counter, it might be mentioned that the law of the Magic Force instead of the victims could be mentioned. Just like that. And with the finish point, that's fine. So we'll go on with ours, but we won't object to yours because we see that there are points for each other. The directions have gone sideways, but we see that if we have points to each other on that road, the steps will take place. And we believe, not because we ask for it, because we want it here, but, as the public and the feminist movement demands, it is time to reach the subject and begin to move. And as we speak of the machista of violence, let me make a small end of Sara Majarena's captive euscal and of his daughters, and of the machista of the aggressor and of the system itself. It's nice to be with her until she's well, but besides her physical injuries, she'll have a lot of emotional feelings. That's very well known by all the people who have suffered a machista of violence. And to return to the attack, the emotionally strengthening process must be made together by Majarena's and her daughter, and we believe that both of them must be here at home and be together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists. Mrs Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u122	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, on this last item on the agenda, we are going to discuss the initiative for a study on women's precarious work and its consequences. My parliamentary group, Basque Socialists, believe that the leadership of the initiative was more appropriate than what was ultimately requested of the Basque Government within it, where it is pointed out that the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to carry out a study on the impact of precarious work and the poverty situation of women on male violence. We believe that this study should be carried out, but not focused solely on job insecurity, poverty and women, but that this study should be extended to the incidence of job insecurity and its impact on men and women, and that its conclusions should be incorporated into the work on the development of the framework programme for employment and economic recovery, including a specific plan for the full integration of women. To this end, it is essential that the Basque Government promote effective equality between men and women, combating discrimination from the moment of access to employment, discrimination in the employment relationship, harassment at work or on grounds of sex, discrimination in collective bargaining, promotion of equality plans, reconciliation of work and family life. Our Counsellor for Labour and Justice, Mrs María Jesús San José, made this point at her first appearance in the Committee on Labour and Justice in this Parliament on 31 January this year, and this is the way in which we believe that this initiative should be focused, in a broader way and without only being influenced by macho violence. Because macho violence can not only be linked to poverty, as it occurs at all economic and social levels: it is exercised by men with great purchasing power and with less purchasing power. The macho violence manifests itself as the most brutal symbol of the inequality existing in our society, which is directed at women by the mere fact of being so, whatever their position or age. We want to move towards a more secure and gender-based violence-free society, which can provide an effective response to women who suffer from gender-based violence and their children, and generate the necessary mechanisms to do so. We want to move towards a model and care that protects victims and does not re-victimize them, where training must also be a key element for all actors to act in this field. Economic inequality generally engulfs macho violence. Inequality, unemployment and job insecurity and the lack of employment opportunities, the reduction of direct or indirect aid, the wage gap of around 24% between men and women, can delay the exit of the victim from the hell he lives in, as they delay him in taking the step, denouncing or breaking the link between him and his aggressor. The feminization of poverty could lead to an increase in violence against women, while austerity measures leave victims in a situation of greater vulnerability. But Spanish society is not more or less violent because of its economic situation, which can act as a social stressor and condition abuse, but does not generate it. That is the key and the difference in our compromise amendment. The crisis has put a brake on denouncing, because of the fear of not finding a job and running out of resources to get ahead. It is therefore important to implement measures to facilitate the integration of victims into the labour market, which are included in our compromise amendment. Job insecurity may prolong this lack of freedom, but it may also affect the failure to take account of the gender gap in budgets, pensions, unemployment benefits, the Unit Act or child education. There is a lack of critical awareness of the outcome of this violence. The current unemployment rate makes it more necessary to improve networks that support labour integration and facilitate access to housing and adequate benefits for their emancipation, so that victims of violence can get out of this situation more easily. Cuts in equality policies and against gender-based violence prevent the reduction of structural violence, which has been aggravated by factors such as women's unemployment, the feminization of poverty, job insecurity, social neglect, setbacks in education for equality, and the loss of labour and social rights. Equality allows both men and women to develop all their capacities and make their decisions without limitations imposed by gender stereotypes. Equality policies should aim at ensuring real equality between men and women, eradicating gender-based violence, ensuring equal work and pay, promoting reconciliation and co-responsibility in work and family life. At the plenary session on 17 March last year we discussed an inquiry by the parliamentary group EH Bildu in this House on job insecurity in general, and it was already pointed out in that intervention that employment was one of the main concerns of citizens. At present there are many families with all their members unemployed, and a youth unemployment rate of 40%. Young people move between unemployment and job insecurity, or they go abroad looking for new opportunities. The fight against job insecurity and employment must be the top priority for governments to achieve more quality jobs and jobs, and it is on the agenda of this Government. It is also important to have a good social coverage network to minimize the effects of this precarious work. That is why we have signed the compromise amendment that we are presumably going to adopt in this House today with the support of the Socialist Group, the Basque Nationalist Group and the People's Group. Mrs. Arana, don't pick up an empty language. It collects a number of concrete measures. The only difference is the scope of the study: you in the initial amendment presented the request for such a study, presented it in a smaller, smaller way; we are going to collect and collect the need for such a study, and we also define which department will do it (the Department of Labour and Justice is going to do it), but it refers to the incidence of precarious work and its different incidence between men and women, and that its conclusions are incorporated into the work carried out by the framework programme for employment and economic recovery. And, on the other hand, also to strengthen actions that promote all effective equality between men and women from the government. It also urges the Government to include in its legislative timetable the drafting of the law on victims of violence against women, with a commitment to prioritizing the handling of cases prior to their referral to this Parliament. The inclusion of this law is already reflected, as Mrs Garrido has rightly said, in the government agreement signed between the Basque Nationalist group and the Basque Socialist group, and this commitment is reflected in point 3. And point 4 also refers to the Basque Government being urged to implement specific socio-occupational integration programmes aimed at victims of gender-based violence, enabling them to start a life free of violence, which I have also pointed out is of vital importance for them to gain their freedom. I believe that it is an initiative that perfectly captures everything that was taken up by the initial proposal of the Elkarrekin Podemos group and that also largely coincides with that put forward by the EH Bildu group, by Mrs Etxebarrieta. I therefore call on you, if it is not adopted, as is presumed, your compromise amendment, to join ours, and to come out with the unanimous vote of all parties. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u123	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Lady Arriega, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u124	Thank you, ma'am, and good evening to all. President, chief officers and congressmen. Today we are discussing the cultivation of women and a study about its consequences. In this particular case, it is required to examine the effect of violence. It is not new to the salary of women and men, and this data increases for years in proportion as wages increase. Nor are those in the least degree of labor that are women in a great majority, driven by so many different factors. In this case, we might be able to do many more study, and have done so. The results of the year are expressed by the report made about the pay-ral in 2012, and thus by the necessity of lessening the breach in the planet of equality, and of the organized plan. We may, therefore, reflect on this subject, for it is a vast subject, but I would like to focus my discussion on this particular proposition of today. Collects Elkarrekin We can in the justification of the non-legislative proposition that macho violence is directly related to the precariousness of work and the situation of poverty experienced by women. Without denying that it could actually have a significant impact on this, I would not like to miss the opportunity to state that violence to what is intimately linked in this case is to the relationship of inequality between men and women. That is where its origin lies, and it has its effect, unfortunately, on both women in poverty and women in middle or high economic status. For what I have been able to understand from the several participations hitherto, we have all spoken of equally courteously, and all of us have proposed similar contributions. That is why I'm surprised that you haven't come to a large agreement between the groups at this point. As the first reflection, I think we have not understood the proposition or its application in a quite different manner. If we proceed to the substance of the subject, the initial initiative, introduced by Podemos, in order to make a law against the machista of women, demands a study of the industry of women, and of their consequences, as well as the correction of the EH Collectors in that line. Our teams, the Socialists, and the middle line signed by the populars, want to go further. As I have remarked in a further reflection, that this state of poverty, or the state of labor, though affected by it, is not the foundation of violence; the foundation of violence is another. So let's not just sign on it on the way to the head of an integral law of violence. In this way we must examine several different aspects, and they are already examining them. But the chances of Diagnosis and Facts to be founded, both about the content of the law, and about the form which this law will have, are different, and we shall have occasion to consider them all by the contributions made by different institutions, expert, and distinct. And so our teams introduced the correction of the interpolated text between the three groups today, far beyond the original initiative. First, let's avoid the state of poverty, set up a frame of employment and economy for the first semester of this year, which aims to reduce the rate of unemployment under 10%, and to give priority to the collective population with the greatest difficulty, among the women, to promote and assist the enceptivity. There's our first commitment to the right effect. This framework programme will contain a specific employment plan which will include, inter alia, measures for the full integration of women into economic and labour activities, the integration of employment through local and regional employment plans, training for employment, entrepreneurship, support for SMEs and self-employed persons, the consolidation of local trade, and new programmes in building, especially intensive in job creation. And this is how our group understood the spirit of the non-law proposal put forward by Elkarrekin Podemos: an opportunity, as I said, to take a step beyond diagnoses and studies, which will be necessary to elaborate a future law of violence, but this study along with many more. As I said in Basque, studies in relation to the different areas that affect women in our society, which can have their effect, and which give content to this future law, as well as – I have also said in Basque – contributions from institutions, agents, experts and experts in this field. Even with regard to the form that the law should provide. Subject, by the way, that we will also have an opportunity to debate, I think, in a very short time, since EH Bildu has also put forward a non-legislative proposal to eradicate the macho violence in our society, where the issue of drafting a law or not will therefore also be put on the table. And later it will be discussed and later it will be discussed how this law will be drafted (content, form, etc.), so what we do not want is for this issue to be discussed by fascicles, depending on the different aspects that will be necessary in this need, since, after that study, others will also be needed, as I have already said, but I do not think that the right thing is to establish it at a stroke of non-law proposal, Thursday after Thursday. This process will have its time and place. However, given that we understood that this issue deserved an effort to reach a consensus, we have put forward a compromise proposal that, we understand, was more complete and met the demands of both the original proposal and the other amending groups, drafting a much more complete text, where we urged the Department of Labour and Justice, as Mrs Sánchez has already said, to prepare a report on the incidence of job insecurity and its different incidence between men and women, as did Councilwoman San José at parliamentary level. I am not going to go further on this subject. In our half-way proposition, and in spite of ourselves, we were asking you to strengthen the enterprises which excite the effective equality of women and men, against the dissemination of employment, against the crime of labor, against the revolt of labor, or the initiative of the family organization and of labor, and of all these aspects, within a law of violence. And we also propose to set up in our middle course the precise programmes of labor and socializing, directed to the bichtimes of the genus. And yet we have not reached a unanimous agreement. This leads me to think that it was not the object of Podemos and EH Union that they should not agree together. Here is another reflection of mine. It was a real pity for me that I had not taken advantage of this opportunity, and I really hope I can achieve common ends through the law between different groups. The hostess said that we are not so far away, so we shall meet on the way, I am sure, for the matter which is in our hands requires strong consent, received by the legislature, which ought to be directed by the Government, and delivered to the whole society. That's why I wanted to collect EH and together ask the Podemos to protect our middle course. Mrs. Hover mentioned that if they have ceased to belong to them, we are to protect ours, and I am very grateful to her for having said that. And in conclusion, I'd like to thank the other half-communicative teams for their premeditation. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Passing on the answering shift together Podemos. Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u126	Mrs Sánchez, Mrs Arrizabalaga, Mrs Llanos [[sic]] We are not against the points they propose. They seem interesting to us. We are not going to vote against it, but we believe that they are escaping the debate we were bringing to this House. Mrs Sánchez, who covers a lot, doesn't squeeze, and sometimes go to concrete and small, so she gives us data to then be able to talk big. Mrs Arrizabalaga, indeed, as you have said, macho violence is multiple and affects all social and economic status. We have no doubt about that, and I think it has become clear in my speech. And of course this study is... well, we're talking about a space, a sample, that we think it's important to carry it out, and we also think that those little samples should be brought into the debate and taken into account when making the new law of sexist violence. And if we have to do it Thursday through Thursday, I am willing to bring it in every Thursday that is necessary, because I think it is an important enough issue to discuss it many times. They have proposed four points. I, speaking on the first point, tell you that on job insecurity and the difference and incidence between men and women we really understand that this proposal should actually be a fact without being a parliamentary initiative. We believe that they should be doing so now; that is why we do not think it is important to include it. We assume they're doing it, because, it seems, they always do it right. Referring to point 2, we understand that this is something that the Basque Government should also be doing, and I do not think, given the importance of this matter, that we should remind it, because the figures that we find ourselves on the street on a daily basis alone remind us of this. We sincerely believe that the Basque Government will continue to fulfil its responsibility to promote effective equality between men and women, and we believe that we should not work on a parliamentary initiative to ensure that the Government continues to fulfil its obligations. In point 3 we continue to talk about a law on victims of violence against women, and, as Mrs Etxebarrieta has rightly said, one must turn to language and propose another approach, such as sexist violence and non-victim violence, removing the part of victims. And on point 4 I must tell you that, as we have already mentioned in the initial intervention, words respond to social and political views of phenomena. We reiterate, Elkarrekin Podemos wants to work for women's economic autonomy, and job integration should be only one of the possible ways for women to be economically autonomous. So putting in place specific programmes for socio-occupational integration is short. And on the use of term victims, therefore, it seems to us important that any initiative to address this violation of human rights be done without falling into paternalistic, tutelary formulas, in which women are seen as passive or weak persons. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, PNV and PSE, it is a pity that you want to continue with an amendment that has little to do with what we are talking about, goes a little far from what we were talking about here, and that you want to take this debate to your field to get a nice picture showing how good you are and reinforcing what you should already be doing. We think we need to go further. We want to put the debate on Machist violence at the centre, because women suffer a lot of violence, because they kill us and rape us, because we have precarious jobs, because they do not bring us together and make us invisible, because we suffer a lot of different violence. Because we believe that it is necessary to start talking about how to articulate the law of sexist violence, who should intervene in the realization of this and what we have to take into account. Thank you very much. , perdón, EH Collect [[Barres]] , to reach agreement, to put in this House a courageous and necessary debate, and to begin to build the limbs in order to achieve a law of courageous, just and necessary Machist violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Mrs Garrido, over there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u128	Thank you, Mr. President. Excuse me, please, from the seat. Well, Mrs. Arana, I think you have to look at this deal with other eyes, because it's a good deal. I believe that in the end we are talking about drawing up a report to know the effect of precarious work and its impact on the field of men and women; we are talking about strengthening action in the field of equality, combating discrimination in access to the various fields; we are talking on a third point – which is one of the requests of this group – about the Government's incorporation into the legislative timetable of the bill on the care of victims of gender-based violence, and that action is finally being taken on the reintegration of victims of gender-based violence (social and labour reintegration), and I think it is something important. I believe that today this House is taking a step forward, and I regret that you, the EH Bildu and Podemos groups, have not finally joined this agreement, which is an agreement covering different areas, and one fundamental one, which is that of the precarious work of women, and the other of the victims of the macho violence, which is moreover that we urge and place very specific duties on the Government, which we hope will sooner and later fulfil them. And of course the People's Party, as always, with regard to the legislative timetable, Mr Lehendakari, we will be vigilant, and, if not, sooner rather than later you too will have a question on this issue in this Parliament. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u129	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mrs. Houseboy, that's where.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u130	From my seat, too. I think all groups...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u131	Sanchez, I'm sorry... The representative of EH Bildu. [[Barres]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u132	I have no problem giving you the floor, if you like. I believe that we have several views on the same subject (that our ends are alike, and I think that we all have repeated it). In these several respects, Ms. Arana and I considered it important that there should be here certain terms and concepts which have not been shared, and therefore we resolved to go on with ours. Besides that the relations of power between women and men do not affect mathematical violence, we would say that the relations of power are generally produced by different states of inequality. We should, therefore, not only look at the genus, but also at a large and large origin, economy, etc. And for this reason we thought it important to see in these circumstances the state of prerogative; we have often laid focus on other places (which are important, not) but in this particular case we intended to arrive at it. He's already talking about transisturistic violence, and I think it'll be important to look at it. You wanted to remark to whom to offer or demand this work, and to remark how it was important for us to do it (with feminist gestures, with unions, with private companies, with judicial power and the participation of political parties), because we thought it important here to be able to give up the law which would have to participate in it at the moment of developing it. And that's how we'd leave him. We've had different views. We may have the same objectives at certain moments, as we shall meet, and we shall certainly meet, but in this case we should place some particular matters on the table about the quality, the prerogative about the importance of violence. And I'd like to finish by saying that you've made offers about the job, which are very important, but we think that jobs don't get you out of poverty, and that there's nothing else to do but to look at the appearance of poor workers. Then we should see it even wider. But, as I said, we'll be on our way. We'll have a lot of other points to find each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, I am now.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u134	Well, my apologies for bringing me forward earlier, Madam President and Mrs Etxebarrieta. I'm so sorry. But, well, just from my seat, I believe that in defending the initiative that has been raised here today, in the speech, we have agreed, by listening to each other. All the political groups have agreed to a large extent. That is why I still think that the compromise amendment that we are going to adopt today and which we have signed with the Basque Nationalist Group and the People's Group is more broadly reflected in the preparation of this study. And it also defines which department, within the Basque Government, has to do so, with which, being much broader, there will be no problem, because it covers what you proposed, more things that include that initiative. And it contains another set of duties for the Government, such as the drafting and inclusion, within the legislative calendar, of that law of victims of violence against women, which, regardless of whether we like the name or not, that these things (the name of the laws, etc.) are also discussed when they are drafted and defined at the last moment, I believe that it is the intention or obligation that is collected within it, the elaboration, what has to prevail, and not the name that is to be given to that law or not. And then, on the other hand, it also contains something important, which are the specific programmes in relation to socio-occupational integration, which are so important and vital in facilitating the incorporation of victims of gender-based violence into society, so that they can emerge from the situation that they are living inside their homes. I believe that it contains very concrete, important measures, and that all of them as a whole are much broader than the initial initiative. With this I believe that there would be no problem, and I invite you to join in voting on our compromise amendment, so that it will eventually be adopted by all. And if not, it will be approved by the three groups that will support it, which is important for victims of gender-based violence. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u135	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. And finally, Mrs. Arri generousga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u136	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Mrs. Arana, don't get me wrong, hey! We have no problem discussing issues relating to violence Thursday after Thursday at this headquarters. Of course not. The point is that if all these kinds of diagnoses, reports or petitions are going to work out the law at a later stage, we understood that the time to request them, process them and so on is the time for the law to be processed. Not for another reason. Therefore, please do not misunderstand me that every time we have to discuss issues here, there will be no greater problem with this. Indeed, it is an important enough issue to do so. But I'm still thinking about it. I continue with my reflections in the sense... I was grateful, in this second brief speech, when both Mrs Arana and Mrs Etxebarrieta were talking about terminology, what differentiated us, what separated us... For I do not know in what sense, because in Nafarroa the Law against Violence against Women has been passed, and in Nafarroa, which I know, govern you, govern EH Bildu and we govern too. I understand that there has been no problem there in terms of terminology, and I understand that there will be no problem here either. That is why I still believe that what differentiated us were other reasons, and that is why I still believe that the interest behind that non-law proposal was that of non-agreement, sincerely. What was the purpose of today's proposal? To execute the law against the master of violence? We got it in the middle of the drive. To get a diagnosis of that integrating law against the Machista force? But only the diagnosis based on women's work-prefectation? That's not enough, and we know it. To avoid women's need of work and state of poverty? We've got specific stocks to work on in this middle-way. Then I still don't know how we didn't get to a unanimous agreement. And my answer again, after so much reflection: because there has been no will. There has been no will of the two parties that maintain the government, to propose a proposition to all the groups, and to which it was answered that when it was the Popular Group, it meant that it should come to an agreement. There has been no will together because Podemos has not made any proposals to consent to those who support the government, but to the rest. So today, together with Podemos, the concertant of consent, zero, and the passion of protagonism, great. So who wants to take the picture? And on this subject, we must abandon the protagonism. In season, it's the spirit of our middle-class medium. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote together for the middle-point correction that Podemos and EH Teams have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u138	So the middle-line correction hasn't been solved. Then we'll vote for the popular Euscals, the Basque Socialists, and the Middle Amendors who have signed the media. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 45; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0, 0; the abstainments are 29.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-09.u139	So we have accepted the half-path correction. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was five o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-one.
