ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I inform Leixus that he has Arribalaga and Jone-The Newe-Governs' voters with their own team. And, on the other hand, the seventh point is left for another. First point in theme list: "The patrioticist and Basque Socialist propose as a parlamentary group, contrary to the court management of the Tribute, which imposes the duty of paying for the VAT, the right to justice and the professional shift. Discipline and final resolution. It's the proposer's turn. Mrs. Castelo, it's your turn to introduce and take off the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u1	Good morning, everyone. We began today the debate in this Parliament with a non-legislative proposal which the Bureau dealt with on 7 March and which has as its main objective that this Parliament should show its unanimous and unequivocal support for the office and the right to free legal assistance provided by lawyers and prosecutors to those without economic means who need to go to the courts in defence of their rights. We do not escape the fact that the benefit of free justice is the only tool that guarantees equal access to justice as a public and essential service; a right that is enshrined in the Magna Charter when it states in article 24 that all persons have the right to the effective protection of judges and courts in the exercise of their legitimate rights and interests, without in any case any defence being possible. We are promoting from the Nationalist and Socialist groups the support of this House for this essential public service in the face of the stalemate that has been created by the Directorate General of Taxes, which carried out a nefarious and erroneous interpretation of the Spanish system of free legal assistance. This was allegedly done on the basis of a judgment delivered by the Court of Justice of the European Union, which ruled on the subjection of the value added tax of the Belgian State's legal aid system, which in no case – only to be compared – is comparable to that established in the Spanish State, which is regulated by Law 1/1996. A disguised man who waged war on consumer and user associations, professional colleges, and lawyers. The Ministry of Economy caused a fire causing a problem where it did not exist, and it also caused serious harm to those in need of the office shift and the benefit of free justice in order to go to the courts in defence of their interests or in pursuit of their rights. The Directorate-General for Taxes, which reports to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, modified the legal nature of the shift of office and free legal assistance in Spain by altering from a pen its compulsory and free character, which nobody until then questioned, and decreed, therefore, that the services provided by lawyers and prosecutors in these cases were no longer exempt and that they were subject to 21 % of the value added tax. A true madness, not only because of the ways in which it was decided, unilaterally and through a tax consultation, but also because of the substance, because the essential characteristics of a public service were modified against what our legal order established. Now, in order to fix this hussy, we have to propose measures that we could qualify as fireproof measures. The first, after the exchange of views, I suppose, in a kind tone, between the Minister of Justice, Mr Catalá, and his economic counterpart, Mr Montoro, therefore, to put on hold the irrational interpretation made by the Directorate-General for Taxes, while proof is given of the second fire-fighting measure, which is to amend Law 1/1996, of free legal assistance, so that this law says in a clearer and more forceful way what it already says. That is to say, it is a free and compulsory public service, in which lawyers and prosecutors receive compensation (other than their fees) from the public service, previously fixed by the public service, for the service they provide within the office shift; compensation which was not subject to VAT, which should not be subject to VAT, and which will not be subject to VAT in the future. I know that some group will be able to tell me that why we have maintained this proposal, given that the Congress of Deputies is already in it, that two days ago we discussed the consideration of the proposed law to amend Law 1/1996 to say what it says, and that why we have not withdrawn the initiative. I would say that there are two fundamental reasons. One, because we believe that it is timely and necessary for the Basque Parliament to support the office shift and the right to free legal aid as a public service necessary for the exercise of the constitutional right of effective judicial guardianship to which all Spaniards are entitled. And because after the interventions that we were able to read in the Journal of Sessions, of the groups in the Congress, it is desirable that this Parliament ratify the need for immediacy to extinguish the fire that Mr Montoro caused, and that other elements to debate, and that were exposed last Wednesday in the Congress by different groups, do not prevent the non-subjection to VAT of the services that lawyers and prosecutors perform in the office, in free legal assistance. To our original proposal was presented an amendment by the EH Bildu group, with which we have negotiated, maintaining the objectives that I have just told you, but which improves the text that we initially presented. I don't think I need to be extended any more. I believe that all groups are in support of the office shift and free legal assistance, and I conclude my speech by asking all groups to support the non-legislative proposal that we have tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Abrahams, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. The initiative that we are discussing today was presented jointly on 28 February by the Nationalist and Socialist groups, in order to urge the Spanish Government and the General Courts to resolve a new misconception of the People's Government, consisting in this case of an unnecessary attack on the office and free justice and, therefore, on the guarantee of the right to effective judicial protection, through a radical change of approach in relation to the taxation of the office and free legal assistance. Once again, and in the purest style of what can be called a pyromaniac firefighter, the Government of the People's Party, in this case at the hand of the Minister Mr Montoro and with a clear collection intention, generates a debate and controversy that until then does not exist in Spain on this matter, and, as we will then see, to arrive months later, after protests, discontent and mobilizations, to reverse the initiative and to leave everything as it was previously, something that is becoming usual. This week we also spoke in the Labour and Justice Committee of the Civil Registry Institution and its futures. This, fortunately, seems to be the result of a way of governing and legislating from the past, and now, lost the absolute majority, it is necessary to dialogue, negotiate and agree, which we believe is very positive. Since 1986 there had been a peaceful approach, through a decision of the Directorate-General for Taxation, that the actions of professionals appointed ex officio for the defence of the beneficiaries of the right to free legal assistance were not subject to VAT, considering that such actions were provided on a compulsory and free basis, and that the authorities paid a subsidy to the professionals, but not remuneration per se. In other words, a legal resistance for 30 years has been a guarantee for people who have least economic resources. In a recent binding consultation on 25 January this year, the Directorate-General for Taxes itself changed this criterion, which has been in place for more than 30 years, and stated that the services provided by lawyers and prosecutors to beneficiaries of the right to free legal aid under Law 1/1996 are subject and not exempt from VAT, with VAT having to be passed on to the general tax rate of 21 %, considering now that these services are carried out on a onerous basis. This gave rise to a remarkable confession and alarm in the sector, changing the attorney-general's solution for more than 30 years from very uncertain principles. This change in criterion was intended to be based on a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in July 2016, which dealt with a question referred for a preliminary ruling by the Belgian Constitutional Court and which considered that this provision of services in Belgium was voluntary and subject to remuneration, i.e. that these services are carried out on a onerous basis, and therefore there is no exemption from VAT. European judgment, therefore, that it was based on the Belgian free justice system, of a completely different nature from the Spanish public model, since that system is voluntary and remunerated by the State. As we said, this radical change of approach has caused uncertainty, discomfort and concern among the professionals concerned. Eta horregatik, beste behin ere, erabaki horrekin PPren Gobernuak mundu guztia jarri du berre kontra: the bar associations and prosecutors and their professionals, the General Council of Spanish Law, the associations of users and consumers, the parliamentary groups (up to four PNLs have been presented in the Congress of Deputies, and this PNL that we are debating in this House today), and the autonomous communities. At the last Sectoral Justice Conference on 22 February, the leaders of all the autonomous communities present were in favour of the immediate suspension of the application of VAT to free justice. And now, logically, he has to solve the problem that he himself creates and in a totally unnecessary way. Free justice is an essential public service to guarantee the constitutionally recognized right to effective judicial protection for those who lack the resources to fight. And, based on the mandate of article 119 of the Spanish Constitution, it is organized by the various schools of the State through about 44,000 lawyers and lawyers and 13,000 procuradores and procuradores ex officio, who work 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, to guarantee access to justice for all citizens. Euskadin, there's more than 2,300 lawyers working on a professional shift, and there's hardly any complaint to the service users. The judicial resistance of the Doa is one of the axes of justice, which secures the true judicial protection of the people, whatever may be their economic resources or their state of damage. On the basis of the approach followed since 1986 and the provisions of the current Value Added Tax Act of 1992, we understand that defence and representation services as the provision of the right to free assistance are free for the beneficiary and compulsory for the taxable person, and are therefore not subject to VAT. And Law 1/1996, on Free Legal Assistance itself, determines that the shift of office is not voluntary and that compensation to lawyers and prosecutors is not remunerative. Therefore, this public service, before and now, is compulsory under the existing legal rules, and free of charge, since the beneficiary will not have to pay for the professionals, and the amounts received by these professionals for the provision of this service are those which the public administration itself unilaterally establishes and which cannot be negotiated or modified, and are removed from market prices. In short, it is not a question of remuneration or payment for the services provided, but of a subsidy, as provided for in article 37 of the Law on Free Legal Assistance. What is received on an ex officio basis is a subsidy, and as such, according to Article 78 of the VAT Act, subsidies are not subject to VAT. If these amounts are subject, on the other hand, to the IRPF. If the change were to prevail, we would come to the absurdity that VAT should be paid by public administrations. That is to say, the Administration itself (the Ministry of Justice or the autonomous community with transferred powers) should assume the VAT share, so that 21 % of VAT would finally have an impact on the funds intended to sustain the right to free legal assistance, which could harm the most disadvantaged citizens, as well as the professionals who defend and represent them, in a clear and undeniable social, altruistic and vocational function. In the case of Euskadi, it would amount to slightly more than EUR 3 million; amounts that would have had to be added to the budgets to cover the services provided by lawyers and prosecutors on duty. Therefore, through this PNL, we want to say: for it is a necessary public service, which requires economic and personal resources to be maintained and to be effective. Secondly, we protect the measures taken by the union of the professionals in order to return the criteria of the principal director of the Tribunals. And finally, after stating that this measure would end up harming the justiciable, we urge the General Courts and the Government of Spain to take immediate action to ensure that the services provided by lawyers and prosecutors to beneficiaries of the right to free legal aid are free of VAT, while maintaining the consolidated criterion that the amounts paid for the office shift from public budgets, either from the State or from the autonomous communities, are not remunerated or compensated, as set out in article 37 of the Law on Free Legal Assistance. We know that a proposal for a law is under way in the Congress of Deputies, which is being dealt with by way of urgency and by single reading, although, as Mrs Castelo said, in view of the demonstrations that took place last Tuesday in the consideration, we believe it is necessary to bring this PNL to debate in this House, and we also hope that the result of that processing of the proposal for a law that is being processed in the Congress of Deputies in order to try to solve a problem that has not yet existed does not create other new problems. Mr Amaitzeko, I would like to thank you for your willingness to reach an agreement with Mrs Goirizelaia, and to request the support of the other non-amending groups for the compromise agreed with EH Bildu. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u4	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Passing over to the leaders' team, representing the EH Collect Group. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u5	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, Mrs. President. Yes, the proposal we saw seemed really interesting to us to bring here a proposition like this, among other things, because it gave us a chance to talk about justice and business shifts. It is a very important subject for us in this kind of work, and seeing what changes were proposed in the Spanish State, to speak of this parliament, to see what each of us thinks of, and if possible, to receive it in a settled manner, it seemed very important to us. Therefore, when we saw that the proposition was our work, we thought, as it were, to improve, if possible, and so introduced the amendment. Free justice and a shift of office, from our point of view, is the last opportunity for many citizens, usually the most disadvantaged, to go to justice. And normally all these people who use this turn or this right to free justice do so because they believe that to solve their problems – some very important – the last way they have to go is to the courts. Therefore, we believe that free justice and trade are not to be regarded as expense; investment is to us an important and important investment. There is a turn of free justice and trade, which is believed to be in us, i.e., the essence of lawyers. Why do I say that? Years ago, when these services weren't available, they started doing this kind of thing at different coleggios. When there was still no concern about the problems of immigration, the bar associations set up commissions and provided legal assistance to these persons. When it was very serious, exactly the same as now, but it was not yet the same about the violence that we suffered by women, the bar associations, and the bar associations, they also posed assistance shifts and office shifts in relation to these issues. That is to say, in our own actions there is the essence of free justice and of the shift of office. The consequence of these decisions made by the professional colleges was the law of 1996, which regulated this service of free of charge and justice. And I do want to give you a data that I think is important and relevant. Free justice used to say it wasn't expensive, and it was an investment. It's just that it doesn't cost citizens that much money. It costs more or less five euros a year to every citizen, and professionals charge an average of 130 euros or 150 euros for the entire shift of office or the free assistance they carry out. But it is also that the lawyer who does this service also pays tribute, because he is subject to the IRPF. I mean, in the face of the debate that we've heard in some places, that you don't give, you don't pay anything... you do pay. It's not that you don't want to, or you want to stop paying what's right. No, no, What is being raised is a debate in other different terms, because the IRPF is being subscribed. What happened here? What has often happened here is that which often happens in other cases, and that the Spanish Common-wealth, by means of the consequences of a sentence, wills what it hath hitherto pleased to change; and that is another clear instance, of what happens either by transfer, or by our own jurisdiction. This is, although we have all the rights to pay for it, for what is here exercised in justice and offices is derived from the Department of Justice, though in these cases we are subject to the Spanish Common-wealth. What happened here? For the Spanish State, using a judgment handed down by a European court, has intended to apply that and to make a modification of what was already in force. And here it happens as in many other times and in many other aspects that happen in question of the transfers and the issues that we have in our hands in this Autonomous Community: although this shift of free and ex officio justice is paid through the budgets of the Department of Justice, the Spanish State, if it amends the law – which can do so – which governs, the law of 1996, can also modify some aspects of this situation. In spite of what we have, we again have the problem that we raise here assiduously: that we must have a judicial power, we must have the capacity to be able to decide on these issues as well. Because, if not, we have to urge the Government of the Spanish State, we have to urge the Congress of Deputies to change this issue; to agree on this issue that affects us people, lawyers and prosecutors who work here, and which is also paid through funds from the Department of Justice. With this proposal, what do we want to do? Well, most of all what he's saying in different places and what he's doing-that is, go on and keep things as they were. What we are asking for is that we keep our own existence, put it in the law, and we know that this discussion is given, and we know that it is also determined, and that it is accepted. Yes, we believe that there is one thing which is wanting, as we have seen, and which we miss in this proposition, and also in the law which is discussed in Madrid, and another very important thing; for the proposition was very exact and very concrete, but here is another problem in the business-making round. And that, I think, we must discuss there in Madrid, or treat it here in another way, and be directed, and it is lo que que que denomine el turno fallido. -Y qué es el turno falllido? El turno falldo es el que no se tramita conforme a los parameters de la justica gratuita. -Y esto qué quiere decir? "Qu al final, si no hay un resolución que aucerda esto, la persono no rectibe las ayudas, y el abgado o abgadado y el procuradore se sinci eses cantiades." That is also an important issue, that is also an issue that we would have to deal with. That is an issue that I believe we can move forward through the agreement and dialogue also between all the groups in this House, and above all with the Department of Justice, which is ultimately going to have to make this renewal of this failed turn. We agree that the amendment, in the end we believe that what has been done will improve the first proposition, we see that there must be no difficulty in this, and that what we plan is that we do not agree with what is going on, that we do not agree with what is going on, that we protect the right turn and the free justice, and that if anything has to change, we must change it in another way, but that things must be done in another way and the other way. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u6	Thank you, signor. Passing in the district of teams that don't run, representing the Basque Potion Group. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Lehendakari, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. When this initiative was put forward, it has been argued, and I believe that clearly, that the course of events, the fate of events since it was raised until we began, with this first item on the agenda of this ordinary plenary, the debate on the issue, and the means and solutions to which the agreement which we are going to support, I believe that all the groups in this House are already on the table, and the debate is already on the point and the end. The problem has already been solved, not for free, as has been said here, by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, by Mr Montoro, who has been mentioned. I believe that you very much commend Mr Montoro's ability to work, but it has not been a particular initiative of his, nor a decision of the Government to consider that the remunerations that are received for the service of office are subject to VAT. It's just that the system has been questioned somehow. There was a citizen who submitted a binding consultation to the Directorate-General for Taxes, and the Directorate-General for Taxes, applying the criteria of the latest judgments, that of the French case and that of the Belgian case, which have been dictated on the subjection or non-taxation of office shifts or of the free justice system carried out in these two countries (in Belgium and France), he has understood that, in accordance with the wording of Law 1/96, they should be subject to VAT. Because there is no mention of compensation in that law, there is no mention of subsidies in any case. The Act makes it clear that these are remunerations and compensations for the service provided. And those salaries and compensations, which in 1996 were understood not to be subject to VAT, with the interpretations that the courts of the European Union have recently given in the two judgments that have already been mentioned here, it is understood that they must be subject to VAT. Then the system was questioned. That consultation immediately arises; when we have the resolution of the same, in January 2017, all the bar associations and the General Council of the Spanish Law Society excite all the parliaments and politicians to put the solution on the table, and the solution has already been discussed this Tuesday in the Congress of Deputies, supported by the Socialist Group and the People's Group. A solution, on the other hand, which has been consulted with the Ministry of Justice, with the Ministry of Finance and Public Administration, and, above all, with the General Council of the Spanish Bar Association. Then the solution that conforms to all the sectors that are within this debate is already underway, already discussed last Tuesday, and, therefore, the amounts that the professionals who work and collaborate with the benefit of free justice and the office shifts of the bar associations will not be subject to VAT. Moreover, that decision of the Directorate-General for Taxes is already suspended. Therefore, we will support this agreement that will be reached today in this House, because it serves us to come to exalt, support and commend the work that professionals, lawyers and prosecutors, and the workers of the bar associations do for the benefit of the free justice recognized in Law 1/96, which develops the constitutional precept that those whom the law considers will have free access to justice in our country. Therefore, if the decision of the Directorate-General for Taxes is already suspended, and if we already support the associations of lawyers and prosecutors that have been consulted and that support the draft law that is being processed in the Congress of Deputies at this time, I understand that all the points contained in the agreement that we are going to support today are already settled, are already in place, and, indeed, this debate in this House today may not be necessary, except for two issues. The first, the first point. Indeed, highlight the work of all professionals who collaborate with the benefit of free justice. I cannot be the one who exalts these professionals, because I am one of them and it would be quite ugly for me to put flowers in this gallery, as I know they also collaborate and work, or have worked in other periods of their professional career, many of whom today sit in this House. But there is a fourth point that also interests us, and it is indeed that these professionals see correctly paid or compensated the benefits they carry out with their cooperation through the office shifts of the bar associations. It is a pity that the Commissioner for Labour and Justice is not here today to hear us, because I believe that this fourth point of the agreement to what is coming is precisely to ask her, to urge her to negotiate, to improve the bar of the bar associations, so that the departure of the 14 million budgets that this House has approved will somehow give fair compensation to all the professionals who cooperate with it. And it was precisely for this reason that we asked her when she presented the Community's budgets for this 2017 financial year, because we were surprised that, having become very clear, both by the Minister of Finance and by the Minister of Justice, that it was never going to be the professionals, nor logically the beneficiaries of the free justice system, who at the time had to take charge of VAT, but that it was going to be the public administrations themselves... We ask why the budget line had not been increased. Her answer was very clear, because she had more information than we, humble parliamentarians. Because he told us that such taxation was never going to be carried out at the office, and that was why he had not changed the budget line. Therefore, what we urge you to do is to ensure that, in accordance with that fourth point, as soon as possible, the agreement you have with the bar associations improves, and that the compensation that the professionals who cooperate with it receive for the work they do is worthy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u8	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. We represent the Podemos team together. Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u9	Egun on, Bakartxo Tejeria andrea. Lehendakari, councillors, parliamentarians, parliamentarians... The truth is that when parliamentarian Alexia Castelo and parliamentarian Jone Goirizelaia raised this issue we were a little surprised, because we did not just understand why, why a right is being sought. Is it going to be a bad night again for Cristóbal Montoro? Will it again be a technical application to break a fundamental right such as the right to free legal aid? We believe it has to do with a very small political awareness, in terms of civil rights, both by the Ministry of Justice and by the Ministry of Economy. And in that line we have no inconvenience, on the contrary, to support the non-law proposal that Basque Socialists and the Basque Nationalist Party have launched and supports Bildu, and now we are also informed that the People's Party. Elkarrekin Podemos is in favour of the right to free justice, and we will make our positions clear. The right to free legal assistance of persons who do not have sufficient financial resources to have access to adequate defence of their problems with justice. Two. We support the measures of the professional bar associations and the Office of the Procurator for the effective management of this citizen right, supported by multiple international covenants and conventions, by the Constitution and by Law 1/1996 of 10 January on Free Legal Assistance. Three. We cannot understand the application of VAT and the increase of the benefit decided by the Directorate-General for Taxes to the subsidies allocated to guarantee access to the right to free legal aid. The proceedings of the services provided by lawyers and prosecutors, jurors and notaries, and for the entire criminal procedure, which is free of charge to those who need it, must benefit in order for the right to be guaranteed, and must continue to be exempt from VAT. What are we talking about? We are talking about that, of about 800,000 people who, within the framework of the Spanish State in recent years, have access to free justice, 25,000 have benefited from this right in Euskadi in 2016, to the twenty years of Law 1/1996. The Basque Government, which has transferred this management, has spent 14.5 million in 2016 on this benefit. In the light of the comments of the bar associations, there is still little benefit for the need to encourage the guarantee of this right, for lawyers and lawyers, prosecutors and prosecutors. Twenty-five thousand people in 2016, 3,000 of whom have been women. Three thousand women who have served fifteen professionals in the three territories. For now, we have nothing more to say. Nothing more than to congratulate the inspirers of this non-law proposition. And two more brief comments. One. It would be worth it, from the Labour and Justice Council of our Government, to make an effort to encourage the professions and professionals who contribute to the guarantee of this right throughout our land, from Euskadi, for those who need it, which, only as a curious fact, has increased by 20% of the year before 2016. Second. Such an improvement of the subsidy, in the form of an allocation to lawyers and prosecutors and prosecutors, would have to be extended to the material conditions of the exercise of the right. I am talking about privacy conditions, comfort conditions...; conditions where the criminal process and the assistance of lawyers can be developed in a more effective and comfortable way. And finally, remember that the lawyer or lawyer on duty is a lawyer like any other, like anyone on the market who hires any person. Therefore, it would be very interesting for the specializations that the people who claim this right propose to be sufficiently accessible and adequate, so that, as in the case of women (of the 3,000 women, about fifteen professionals are specifically responsible for the whole world of macho aggression and macho violence), they take charge of the various areas of criminal law. Without further ado, Elkarrekin We can, I repeat, clearly support the PNL proposed by Basque Socialists and Basque Nationalists. And we're delighted to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u10	Thank you, Mr. Uria. We'll take the answers turn. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Castellao, from there...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u11	Yes, very briefly, to thank all political groups for their support for the non-legislative proposal. It is gratifying to see how Parliament will unanimously support the office shift and the free justice system. The fact that the councillor is not present in this plenary does not mean that she does not give unanimous and unbridled support to the service provided by lawyers and prosecutors for those who, with less financial resources, need access to justice to claim their rights or to defend their interests. From the vice-counsel permanent contacts are maintained – who we are in the various professional colleges we know very well – with the professional colleges of lawyers and prosecutors to, depending on the current possibilities that exist, improve and dignify the system of shift of office and of free justice. I welcome this request from the People's Party, and I simply want to extend the same recommendation and interest to Minister Catalá in those communities in which he has that decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians. Mr. Abrahams, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u13	Eskerrik asko. Briefly also to make some points to what has been said. With regard to what Mrs Goirizelaia said, as we were well on the way, we have a certain suspicion that in order to solve a problem that has not yet existed, other problems can be created with the processing of this bill, with that solution to which Mr Ruiz de Arbulo alluded. And he was referring to the failed turn, which we have discussed with a view to incorporating it or not incorporating it into the non-law proposal. In this respect, it must be pointed out that since 2013 in the Basque Autonomous Community, there has been an agreement by the Basque Government with the official colleges to co-finance these failures, which I do not know if it is being done in other autonomous communities. I don't think so. And it is true that in the bill being dealt with in Congress the amendment to article 30 of the Law on Free Legal Assistance, which refers to bankrupts, could lead to interpretations that generated, as we said, a new problem. That is why I believe that, as we have spoken, what can be done, given the unanimity in this House, is to urge our representatives, that we are all represented in the Congress of Deputies, to try to amend this issue in the process of this bill. And, with regard to what Mr Ruiz de Arbulo said, we agree on one point, which is that it has not been for free. In other words, this attempt to change the consolidated criterion since 1986 has not been free of charge. That's what we agreed on. I believe that in my initial speech I spoke of a possible collection intention. And there are those who think (let us remember that in the Spanish State more than 200 million are allocated to guarantee this right)..., there are those who think, or may think, that what Mr Montoro intended was to detract significant economic amounts, 21% of these amounts, from the autonomous communities that have transferred the Administration of Justice, to enter them in the form of VAT collection in the Spanish Treasury. And maybe it's not just a thought. It may in a way be justified as well. Because, as some people said, some spokesman who preceded me in the use of the word, there is a precedent – not just the 2016 judgment – there is a precedent for another European judgment in 2010, which referred to the French free justice system, which set 10% of VAT, and there was no consequence. It is true that after the 2016 judgment there is a binding consultation, but it is also true that in between, before the binding consultation, there is one curious thing, which is that, in fact, the Treasury was already acting in this regard. That is to say, prior to the binding consultation in January 2017, lawyers had been receiving provisional VAT settlement from the State Agency of the Tax Administration in relation to these revenues received by the office shift in previous years, although the Administrative Economic Court, in this case in the Balearic Islands, decided in November (i.e., a month and a half before that change in criterion of the binding consultation) that ex officio lawyers were right. Therefore, I believe that there is or may be a solution (there was already), and what is appropriate is to reflect on the procedure carried out. In other words, perhaps the change of view should have followed an inverse process that has been made, and had held those talks with the official colleges, with the General Council of the Law, with the autonomous communities, and then taken the decision. And I think that Mr. Montoro was left with the subject here. He did not measure two important variables well. The first, the massive reactions against this new criterion that I was going to receive. And another perhaps more important: that the PP, the People's Party, no longer has an absolute majority in Congress. So, in conclusion, we want to keep the positive side of this issue, and it is going to end with several months of uncertainty and protests. That the new regulation which will enshrine the criterion laid down since 1986 by the Directorate-General for Taxation will give these legal professionals greater security, at least in this respect. Let's hope it doesn't create other problems. And finally, as Mrs Castelo said, thank you for your unanimous support for this initiative. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u14	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Unite the EH team as representative. Your word is yours... Put it down and wait.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u15	Is it red? Thank you. I thought it was supposed to be green. I, too, to thank you for my part, I believe that what we have done here today will be good for justice and business shift. And also, as it were, protection for all the people and entities who work on these two tours. But as always, one thing is to make a statement, and another thing is what the practice shows us. And what I'm hoping for is what we're saying today, that we're giving these two rounds full support, and then we're going to have reality when negotiations have to be done, when improvements are demanded and things have to be changed. And for that, what we expect from the Justice Department is to have their exportations and their protection during their journey. And I just think it's important today, but what I've just said, it's absolutely necessary to spend the practice here, what's said here. And that's what we expect to be, the consequence, in the line of what we've agreed on here today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u16	Thank you, signor. Basque Popular. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Zorrilla, I believe it is important to take account of the chronological course of events. The decision not to tax is of 1986, the initial criterion; the VAT legislation is later. The legislation on the benefit of free justice and the establishment of shiftwork is in 1996. The terms in which the law defines it are remunerations and compensations, and in the light of what the courts of the European Union now interpret, that is subject to VAT. And this is not Mr. Montoro's decision. This is a decision of an official of the Directorate-General of Taxes who has to issue the resolutions. I don't know how you think the government works! That officials act on the dictate of what the political superiors say within the ministry? No, no, They do it according to the law. And no one here has doubted that this decision of the Directorate-General for Taxes, in that binding consultation, is not in accordance with the law. No one has questioned it, because it is in accordance with the law. The problem is how a law of ours, which is more than twenty years old, has been interpreted by the European courts. What do we do? We're changing the law. If it's too simple! Where is Mr Montoro's collection effort, when he and the Minister of Justice, Mr Catalá, explicitly acknowledge and say at the Congress of Deputies, weeks after that decision, that binding consultation, that neither the professionals nor the justiciable are going to take charge of VAT, but that it is going to be the public administrations? Is there a collection effort? In other words, the Government has to pay VAT from its budgets to the State Tax Agency, which will then return to the State's general budgets. In our case, the Basque Government will pay it, it will pay it to the deputies, who are the ones who collect it. If it's to circulate the money! There's no collecting desire! I understand that you have to make the speech. If the solution seemed fantastic and wonderful to you! The law is changed, because the resolution of the General Directorate of Taxes is in accordance with the law, and then the law is changed, and that is why they will support it in Madrid. That is, if we come here to make the speech of the pim-pam-pum against Mr Montoro, then it is best to look at things, to look at the chronology of the facts, to read the resolutions, to read what his group says in Madrid, and then simply to say that it is in agreement, that it supports the benefit of free justice, that is what we all do, and nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u18	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u19	In my view, VAT should never have been automatically applied to this process of increasing the right to free assistance, or to the autonomous administration, or to the bar associations for its management. In my opinion, this mechanical application has to do with a political conscience. It is not a functional problem, it is not a technical problem, it is not a problem of application of what the European courts say. It is a problem of analysis and of raising, such as the right to health, such as the right to education, as other rights that are issues that can be collected and saved. Well, more than 8 billion euros in the last legislature in health and education alone. I mean, if we don't see this in the context and culture of the people who are making decisions in Madrid, we don't understand anything. It's not a mechanical issue, it's not a technical issue; it's a violation of rights. The position of Elkarrekin Podemos is clear: nothing more than to support the people who have launched this non-legislative proposal, who must resume the initiative by this Parliament and by the Government to improve the conditions of lawyers and lawyers in office shifts and guarantee access to justice for people who have income problems. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u20	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Now that the debate is over, we'll vote for the Basque Socialists, the EH Collectors and the Middle Amendments signed by the Eubertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 70; votes given, 72; in favour 72, contrary to 0; white, 0; abstentions 0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u21	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Second point on the subject list: "Pull this proposition as a parlamentary group to ensure the incomes of DSBE in order to give the rent to the readiness and the subjective right, and to make it known as a strong campaign. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. The wife of the Kortha, the representative of the EH Group, has the word to introduce and defend her.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u22	The head of the table, members of the legislature, chief physician, good day. As we all know, it was announced on the 15th of May, as we agreed in one of the previous months, that the introduction of a report which will be to promote the income to the solid system of public revenue to promote social agreements, and yesterday we learned that the chief physician of the Artolaries has asked for an opening at the Enpleguus and Society Committee to guarantee his incomes. To tell the truth, we desire, like many others, to know what is to be proposed to us, and above all to know how it will come to that part of the process which is next to the reform of the law. These proposals, no doubt, which we shall meet in the coming days will certainly be said, and after that there will probably be a series of headlines about it. The rent to ensure the incomes will certainly have room for the media in the next few months, and that's why we've brought this discussion to the full meeting today. As we have often repeated, it is an essential rent to support our team's incomes to protect the dignity and ability of every person. This income, which is a boundary to the Euscal sphere of protection, is a powerful instrument for strengthening the cohesion of society, which is the principal aim of public policy, and of smoothing the social differences which are ever more and more remarkable, as all the inquiries which have been made during the past years prove, is therefore a collective purpose to establish and strengthen it. Baina horri horrela izanda era, egia da legealdiaren hasiera-hasieratik diru-sarrareak bermatzeko errentaren gaia bolo-bolo ibili da bai Legebiltzar honetan, baita komunikabide deberdinetan era. Egun batan bai eta ia bestean ere bai, diru-sarrareak bermatzeko errentaren inguruko titorekin hasi dugu eguna: the Pakistani plot that collected at least 469,000 euros from the RGI with forged passports..., the Vitoria jihadist who charged 1,800 euros..., the members of the plot that scamped Lanbide, who took money from the RGI in Italy and Pakistan... , "The control of these aids is a glue...", the magnet investigated for abuses collects 1,050 euros from the RGI and another 500 for its charge..., the jihadist of San Sebastián who charged 900 euros..., the map of the RGI... We could go on, but we've all read those headlines or we've heard chatter, or we've all had the opportunity to read articles that talked about misuse, about many millions of euros that were wrongly charged (although on many occasions they were paid improperly and not wrongly charged), about the misuse of the benefit... These articles spoke of social subsidy scams, articles that have generated a false debate, which starts from conveying to the citizen the existence of an alleged widespread fraud, which is also falsely attributed to a group of immigrants. A debate that suggests that the problem of GIR is the people who receive it and not the system. In order to ensure the revenues, they were all distorted headlines around the system of incomes, designed to doubt the system, and to suspect the benefit of preparation, which represented the profession, the RGI, and the dishonest trio, which cannot be broken, and likewise concealed as many benefited and real situations. Or how many headlines, articles, or programmes have they been, in order to guarantee their incomes, in the state of pensioners who are going to retribute their pensions? How much is it going up with the poor working people's condition? How many headlines have they received outside the system about 60,000 people? Anguish, intolerable, and utterly contemptible are certain media, used by the dysfunctions in certain striking cases of fraud and complex system, to secure incomes to the goal, and consequently to attack the decided and permanent strategy of various political parties, which have taken upon us to attack one of our most important conjunaries among the eupulcan populations. In these terms, the chief physician of Artolalliers replied shortly now to Mrs Garrido, in the discussion of a single control-note, for we all know what the Poptular party has defended and pushed about this subject: Start with the Marotok campaign, continue without interruption on this parliament with the initiative and disputes proposed around the subject, or with expressions made by certain members of this group in social networks. This strategy, which has been used by several means of communication, which is often too apt to mingle with the thesis of the Population party, has produced a tremendous influence on the rentals and collective imaginations of the revenue. On social networks, on stools, on bars, on shops, on streets, on RGI, nothing but to hear what is said about them in the streets, is to know that this strategy has produced a great influence over the rental system and its benefits. In order to ensure the incomes, the rent has been touched, very touched, by this strategy, which can produce consequences which, like society, are really serious, we are in the middle of a pole. The crude situations behind the income of incomes being present, the discussions based on moral paradigmies, though they no longer surprise us, appear to us unacceptable and contemptible, and thus it has been made in the legislature. We've all been together trying to neutralize this discourse. But what has happened before this strategy which has been carried on the media with that strategy which here has been used so much resemblance? There is silence. It has not caused a firm reaction to the chief physician or to the members of the government; silence, silence, and a warm attitude, have reigned over them. "Say one and do the other, how do you... "It is said by an old proverb, and so it has happened in this case. We have often heard the chief physician give the rental data about the revenues to secure the incomes, give up the data which they allow of many ideas received in those headlines, spread out a horror against Poptular, and spread it into a remorse that has no foundation, and we have even heard it make an ardent defence of the rent to secure income revenues, but in front of this campaign there is silence. And another saying also says, "Listen and be quiet, a round nod," "El que calla oorga." We can understand that anecdotal news about RGI bothers citizens, especially if they do not pose correctly, but it is also up to us to put them in their place, and to underline and defend the benefits of the system and the dignity of its collectors. Because we can't take a step back in social rights. These strategys appear to us to be essential to us in efficiency and in a positive manner, and that is why we registered this initiative in March, and that is why we have brought it today to discuss in the few months on which they come, as has been said before, a great deal and a great deal of discussions and headlines about RGI, which will also have a direct influence on the imagery and collective imaginations of the citizens, and to guarantee their incomes, if there is no way to fail in these collective images and images. All attempts will be vain if the citizens do not legitimize the system, and if the benefiters remain stigmatized and suspected. Therefore, what this initiative which we have brought to the discussion today requires is very simple. On the one hand, in order to reply to these views in a positive and efficient manner, we formed a campaign of taxation, which ought to be strong, lasting, and well fitted with resources to support the revenues which ought to be adapted to support them, and which is intended to strengthen the social panic, and to reach all classes of the population, in order to produce and create changes in them, and to prepare a powerful campaign for this purpose. In the same way, always in communication with the media, we ask this crazy joke to eliminate racist behavior and hypnobobism, destroy the behaviors that attack social rights, prepare the style book and produce it. It is also required that his economic relations with them, his scholarships, or his publicity, should be connected with the level of this protocol. As we said before, we can't get warm because we have a responsibility. We have also a clear purpose, a social panic, which demands that we should unite our forces in defence of the fundamental rights, without fear, without courage, seriousness, and responsibility. In our group, we have the fundamental elements mentioned in the action: the model which we have chosen as a society, we must inform the community of messages based on principles founded on our society, and we must explain the circumstances of this system, the advantages of this system, poverty, and its intensity, to support the positive influence of the revenue. We have to get him to think of dignity, of solidarity, of social justice... and seeing our daily context, when we see a reform of the law knocking at the door, it is essential that the revenue should be restored by the consensus of the rent, as we have often repeated. And in that job, it's the essential part of the media. We're not in a neutral context, we're in a context we've sown with that. These collective ends, which we have planned, will be left to no purpose, if the media do not become ally, unless we bring them to this strategy of the majority, which arises according to what we see and hear. That's why we were cut off by groups supporting the government in its correction. We agree with what is proposed in correcting, we see the essential elements mentioned in this correction, viz. the use of the inclusive language, the account of the use and the campaign of data which the view can give. In this sense, I think most of them are in this legislature, and there is also the campaign between the measures which the chief physician has recently published. And he's often told us his intention to get into communication business. I can't forget that Mr. Pastor, too, had discussed the project of "El Parlamento's Las ondas" as well as that he would provide his support for the campaign. But, as I have said, it seems to us rather short, and, again, too warm, because we have the fat challenge in our hands, and we can't hold this challenge alone. In the achievement of these collective ends which we have marked, we have social agents, and, of course, communications. We are short of those campaigns which have been announced to us if they do not supply a change of strategy in the media which will be the port of the campaign. I can't imagine how, for instance, it's possible to combine with an advertisement that can be introduced by a department of the Yahada and RGI. Or, again, in a fully distorted substance, in a theoretical plot around the eternal elements, how, for instance, a cuña publicizer can enter there making information about RGI. It's hard for me because the context is not neutral. It may be said that the chief physician himself said that what is said is one thing, and then that which is received by the others, but all of us here, I think we know that this does not really happen. We are not born today, and we know that there are other contrivances. Hence it is essential for us to define a strategy of communication with the media, which really puts this reform around RGI on that road for extensive agreements. I don't have much to say in regard to the correction of the popular party, because I dare say Mrs Garrido has introduced the same correction to another initiative. He seems to listen to RGI and think he always comes in the same way, and, well, I didn't see that there would be a chance in this affair, and I didn't make an attempt. And to thank Podemos, because it seems to us to be a very positive contribution, has also been introduced in the middle way. According to all the senses, our initiative will not survive, because it will be given a different vote of force. We'll also be listening to the P.I.A.'s vote, because the government will be tight if the party who supports it meets with the elements received in such a correction. But yet I would ask the chief physician, who received what he said here, and what he had done to-day, if he did not go on, at least to consider that we are not in a neutral context. In this challenge, because you have always had our engagement to cooperate, and in that sense at least listen to these things and consider them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u24	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are again here to talk about GIR, but it seems that with a different point than we have had so far. Because, as Mrs Kortajarena rightly said, everything points out that we are not going to have the consensus necessary to carry this initiative forward. I'm not going to repeat the headlines that Mrs. Kortajarena has already mentioned very well, I don't think it's necessary, but I do want to move... EH Bildu today puts on the table the proposal to carry out a powerful, lasting campaign with the necessary means to prestige the income guarantee income tool, to make known the subjective right, and to strengthen, as it cannot otherwise be, social cohesion, and to do so in a way that is accessible to the whole population. We support this proposal, because we understand that it could not be otherwise. This proposal is also accompanied by an appeal to the Government to prepare and protocol a style book, together with the media, to eliminate racist or xenophobic behaviours that they may have had so far; to do so with them, with them, involving tools that already exist in the Government itself, such as the Eraberean network, because we understand that it is a tool that can and should be used. RGI is a subjective right. So that the people can exercise it, and this is not the first time I say it, they must know it. We know the millions who are struggling to maintain this system, we also know that their viability must be ensured, but we also know that this viability cannot be at the cost of allowing certain speeches, because it is a fundamental tool, and in the light of the data on the effects of GIR on our population. We also believe that the fact of the nuances introduced by Mrs Kortajarena's proposal, in relation to the fact that this campaign is lasting and equipped with the necessary means to promote GIR, is something that is increasingly urgent. There are more and more people who, even with a job, could access income security income, and who today do not do so because of ignorance, fear or, worse, for not wanting to find themselves in that stock market of people systematically accused of delinquishing, scamming, assaulting or stealing. We remember, in case someone has forgotten, that the average profile of the perceptor is woman, older, retired. We insist: in 2016, of 63,797 holders (more than 100,000 direct or indirect beneficiaries) there have been 392 cases of fraud; of the 135,409 files reviewed in 2016, 824 of inappropriate use. Inadequate use which, in case they do not know, could be, for example, for a family to go out for dinner on one occasion, or for a person to aim at a gym on medical recommendation. Things that I'm not inventing, which are cases that I myself have accompanied, in case I generate any doubt. I believe that we have a duty to seek mechanisms to improve this abuse, and I believe that campaigns like this, and prestige of the tool, can contribute to that. We understand that it is not possible for the only news that comes out in the media, or practically the only news, on this subject, to be large headlines that refer to specific cases, that in no case are the generality but that give disease and, therefore, sell. Should we, with our complicity or silence, contribute to this? We propose with this compromise amendment a white paper that, as on other occasions, is published by other organizations for the media, that serves as a manual of good journalistic practices, that is done with them, that accompanies this action in addition with economic repercussions... Because if the motivation that leads to shaking or selling the disease is economic, it must also be economic that helps to stop these types of headlines. We know of other tools available in the Government to assess this discrimination, which merely issue recommendations, such as Begira, the advisory commission on non-sexist use of advertising and communication. In 2016, it processed 42 complaints in total, of which 19 were rejected, i.e. almost half. We see that these tools, when they only issue recommendations, do not always help change, and we believe that changes here cannot wait. Not because we are opposed to everyone publishing what they want, but to everyone publishing what they want with public media. But, well, I'm going back to the RGI, which today is the important thing. If we do not help to generate a consensus on the law and on the provision, we are paying the ground for social cohesion in Euskadi to break down. This worries me and terrifies me. I am terrified that the fact is confirmed that, although in the speech the perceptors are a vulnerable part of the population to be protected, in practice they are becoming a group of people to be feared. I'm worried and terrified that they're people who don't seem to deserve to be subjects of law, people who scare us, maybe just because they make us face the fact that poverty can also happen to us. Today, those who charge GIR are either our neighbours or neighbours, in this Parliament we have said it many times and we know it. They are the lady who cleans portals, the bar waiter downstairs, the lady who, after a lifetime of care, has been left with a miserable pension; they are the new neighbors who lost their jobs in the first instance, they are young people who had boys or girls and left alone, they are unemployed; they are construction companies that have gone to bits when the real estate bubble punctured. We're either of us, we're trying to find tools to protect ourselves. People who are staying on the margins of society and whom we condemn above a social discourse that criminalizes and condemns them. They are, above all, subject to the rule of law, and we understand that a campaign that reinforces this and stays outside the walls of this House is also necessary. I believe that the fact that today's proposal is not adopted gives rise to allowing racism, classism, or aporophobia to continue to grow; it gives rise to the fact that we are not able to think that perhaps the next one on Lanbide's tail may be any of us; it gives rise to solidarity not being important; it gives rise to the fact that we do not protect a system that is fundamental. We understand that if today's proposal does not go ahead we are letting aporophobia camp to its widest. Because proposals like the anti-rump network make these elements stop, but they are not worth alone, especially if there is an entire media machine that is constantly influencing the opposite message. We have to do more. We certainly encourage all groups to vote in favour of this proposal, or at least, as Mrs Kortajarena has said, to take into account the elements it contains for the reform process, because we have ahead of us a period of many headlines on GIR. And I want to leave some questions to this House. Which country do we want? Do we want a country in which those who steal with full hands have justification and absolution and no patina of suspicion, or do we want a country in which it is worth living, because if you stumble we will not only help you to lift up, but also we will not criminalize you or consider a remorse or a parasite for it? We insist, RGI is that, an opportunity to get up. The revenue guarantee is a right, and as such it must be a network that should give us all security and pride. A network that conforms to a system designed for no one to stay behind. A system that we must strive to improve, as I have said on more than one occasion, but also to defend, such as this proposal that is brought to this House today. A system that should make us tremble with anger at whom it is questioned, and not make us give it any concession. A system which certainly makes us stronger and which has many margins of improvement, but which cannot be allowed, of course, to take a step back. I think this is the message we have to send. One that will help us condemn those who really impoverish us with their multi-million dollar frauds, one that will not allow voices that ring around fundamental tools like GIR to be thunders that involve your neighbor, the pensioner widow or the unemployed worker over forty-five years old, to be criminals, or to steal their dignity. We have a duty to value this benefit, and to do so with the tools that are in our hands, with which they already exist, with which they are proposed, but also with which they come to mind. We have a duty to look forward from the perspective of opportunity, from the desire to build and from the need to extend the umbrella of protection, so as not to leave anyone behind. We have a duty to build positive discourse, one in which no one comes out stigmatized or criminalized; a discourse that defends this as an irrevocable right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief physician, members of the legislature. Good morning. Well, we vote against the proposal of EH Collector, or EH Collector, and the agreement agreed between Podemos, and I think we have, not only when we have seen the agreement, but after we have heard the interventions here. The Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act of 2008, as amended in 2011, through an agreement in the Patxi López Government between the People's Party and the Socialist Party, or the Socialist Party-People's Party, effectively constitutes access to the economic benefits provided for in this Act as a subjective right, which are the RGI and the supplementary housing provision. They set it up like this, not because today we approve an initiative, an agreement between the proposing group and one of the amending groups, Elkarrekin Podemos, who had tabled an addendum amendment proposing that a campaign be carried out and that a style book be drawn up. It is therefore the law that defines these benefits as a subjective right. And we have to say that we are also happy about that. And we also contribute to the drafting of this law in 2008 in a very active way, the People's Party, trying to improve the text and giving a solution – which I have said sometimes in this rostrum – specifically to the issue of complementing pensions that did not reach the level set, precisely so that it could be a valid formula and would not be appealed by the central government. That was fruit, that foresight in the law, as we know it today, following an amendment by the People's Party. We therefore make a real and effective contribution to shaping that subjective right. We are exposed to a subjective right, if those who wish to obtain social aid here follow the conditions which the laws impose. Indeed, we believe that we have a system of strengthened protection, of the most advanced, not only with the rest of the communities in Spain, but also with the rest of Europe. Mrs Guanche said that many resources are spent; indeed, many resources are spent by public administrations. In particular, the Basque Government is making a major effort, enabling EUR 600 million in the last budget. In the previous ones the amount was a little smaller, but it is true that then with the budget execution, and precisely because we are talking about subjective rights, more resources had to be allocated to satisfy the requests made. But at the same time pentsatzen dugu hobetu daitekeela system. We believe that the system can be improved and is clearly improved, and it also has multiple deficits that we have detailed, and we have detailed them throughout all our interventions. I must also remind you that the first two initiatives put forward by the Group of the European People's Party in this House had to do with a reform or modification of the income-guarantee rules and with another modification of Lanbide-Vasco Employment Service, to put it also definitively in favour of employability. These claims are not made free of charge by the People's Party. We also believe that they have been endorsed by the many and varied data that the Executive has given us throughout the past legislatures on this subject, also provided from the initiatives of the People's Group. And I have to say, and we have said this repeatedly and also about the debates that have already taken place in this House following the initiatives of the People's Party, that we would not be in the situation where we are, obviously, if the Urkullu Executive, the Urkullu Government, of Mr Urkullu – who is also now present in this debate – would have done the duties in the last parliamentary term. We regret that this was not the case, and therefore at the beginning of the legislature, in this legislature, we consider it absolutely opportune to return to this issue. Of course, we believe that the objective of the reform, according to the commitment also made by Mrs Artolazabal – who is also present here, in a dialogue with Mr Urkullu at the moment (I imagine that they will be talking about this reform of the GIR) – will satisfy the expectations generated and also the needs, and above all to remedy the many shortcomings of the system, to avoid abusive situations (which exist), irregularities, to safeguard the rights of the weakest, to correct the many shortcomings of the system, and to definitively connect the system, those who receive social aid, the recipients of social aid, to employability, and to avoid chronisation in the system. These must be the objectives of the reform, and let us hope that this reform, in accordance with the commitment of the Government and of the Councilwoman herself in recent replies also to this Member of Parliament, and to the President of our party in this House, will come on schedule, and above all that it will meet the objectives to which we believe the People's Party must respond. This is where it was mentioned... Some parties wish to conceal that there are abuses, but there are abuses in the system. The cases are there, there are the data and here it is alone to go out and know what it is about in the street, and it is plain it is a problem which disturbs the inhabitants. And in this regard, Mrs Kortajarena, Mrs Guanche, I wanted to remind you that, precisely because this is a matter of clear concern to the citizens, a popular legislative initiative was presented in this Parliament signed by more than 40,000 signatures, which proposed very concrete changes to set up a fair system and that the aid actually reached the people who need it, but also safeguarding the rights of the weakest. Because changes were also proposed, for example, so that the person who, apart from the usual housing, has a storage room, for example, could collect the GIR and not be excluded, as is currently the case. Indeed, the requirements were also tightened, the revisions were tightened and conditions were established for the perception of GIR, which is something I hope this Government will also take up in its reform, which is something quite common sense that someone who has a criminal record is not a perceptor of GIR, for the commission of certain offences. Therefore, you will want to look elsewhere, Mrs Kortajarena, Mrs Guanche, but there are realities that are also thanks to the fact that they have been published by the media, so we know them. And in that sense I think we should thank the work of the media, the information they also give us of the cases: for, plots that falsify passports to scam Lanbide, collectors who have been accused of drugs, who had criminal records, jihadists who continue to charge the RGI (because there are them) after having been convicted of terrorist crimes, or that there are other people, jihadists, who received while fighting in other countries, or people (here already jihadists or not jihadists, because in the end we are talking about people, obviously) who have been able to charge the RGI or continue to charge the RGI even after they have died. So, I don't think that's questioning the system. To put these realities on the table is to echo what is happening, and I believe that precisely the responsibility of the Urkullu Government for what it has to do is to remedy all those shortcomings, those gaps that the system has, that make these irregularities possible. And in conclusion, we will vote our proposal and vote against the intermediate corrections, and I think I have a clear notion of it after I have heard the discourses I have heard here. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u27	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u28	Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are going to discuss a proposal by the EH Bildu group to carry out a campaign to showcase and publicise the benefit and subjective right of income guarantee income. The proposer group proposed in its initiative that Parliament urge the Government to design and present to this Parliament, within two months, a powerful and lasting campaign, to which it must provide appropriate resources, to promote and publicize the provision and subjective right of income-guarantee income, with a view to strengthening social cohesion and with the capacity to access all age, area and population segments. Well, my group does not agree with this information campaign at that time. He agreed to carry out this campaign, but not at the moment. And I'm going to explain the reasons. Soon, in May, we'll be introduced... We supported it and it was approved at the plenary session on 15 December last year that the Government should draw up a specific diagnostic report on all aspects of income-guarantee income, and also the compromise amendment to which we received from the Socialist Group, the Basque Nationalist Group, EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos set a five-month deadline for the Government to submit the outcome of this report to the Employment, Social Policy and Youth Committee. This deadline was due this month, and the Commissioner for Employment and Social Policy has already been asked to appear in Parliament. And, on the basis of what has been said in this report, that the most appropriate mechanism should then be established to carry out its study in the following month, involving both the institutions and the agents involved in social aid, so that it can then be used to review the current rules governing social protection, concerning income-guarantee income. That is to say, it does not seem appropriate, when we are about to discuss regulatory changes to improve income security income, that in two months we will launch an information campaign outlining the current requirements and the current situation. Is it not better to make these changes as planned, and is that process already under way, and then to carry out that powerful campaign, to make these new requirements known in accordance with the new regulations to be adopted? We believe that yes, that that is more logical and more effective. And we agree, as I said, to carry out that campaign, but not right now. At the right time, when the process we have just started has been completed. And that situation has nothing to do with the information campaign on the subjective right of access to social services, which we adopted unanimously in this plenary on 9 March. In that case we already have recently adopted legislation, with a subjective right acquired by the citizens since 26 December, and all the parliamentary groups agreed that, of course, this was an appropriate time to launch that information campaign. And so we approved it at the plenary session on 9 March. But, as I said, the situation is different; the rules were already adopted, subjective law was already recognized, and it was time to make that campaign. The Basque Socialists have always stated before this House that we are in favour of improving our social protection system, and we continue to keep it here today, in this plenary. It is important to remember that we have as a starting point that in the Basque Country we have a good system of protection, but that we have considered that it can be improved – and we are at the moment – to introduce situations that have revealed the crisis and situations that can be excluded, according to the current situation and the current situation, that we have considered that we need to study and that we need to carry out and implement this change in income guarantee income, in order for it to reach as many citizens as possible. Moreover, this social inclusion must be increased, because the objective of our social protection must be that fewer and fewer people need social assistance, because they have been able to enter the labour market and have jobs. But we believe it is time to change this rule, as I said, to improve it, and then carry out that information campaign. In addition, the new criteria for the application of income guarantee income have recently been published, in order to make them known to everyone on the Lanbide website, so that it can reach all citizens more fully what these requirements are when it comes to resolving, obviously in accordance with the requirements currently in force in the current legislation, prior to the amendment to which I have referred. Secondly, the proposing group pointed out that it wanted to protocolize a style book with a view to eliminating racist and xenophobic behaviours that could be promoted from the media, and that it would make the behaviours that attacked social rights disappear, and, if it was considered not to have been applied, it would punish these media economically by removing subsidies and subsidies or advertising investments that could be made in those media. Of course, my parliamentary group has always stated here that it clearly does not agree that information on this subject should be directed on a racist and xenophobic line, as has been done in the last two years fundamentally, but from there to restrict freedom of expression, closing a book of behavior... That may be fine, but you don't just want a book to guide you in behavior. It's just that if you don't already do it, you're asking those media to be sanctioned in some way, not to follow those criteria that are set out in that book. So, there we are already spraying the one that we are obviously restricting the freedom of expression of the media. Even if we do not like what they are saying, because I have already said that I certainly do not agree, and we have expressed it here in my group, both in the previous parliamentary term and in this one, that we do not agree that this information should be directed precisely in a racist and xenophobic line. That is why we are not going to support the original initiative, both for the reasons I have put forward on the first point and for the reasons I have put forward on the second. And what we are going to defend is the amendment to the whole that we have tabled by the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group. And I do not agree with the amendment as a whole, and we have neither supported nor will we support the amendment to the whole of the Group of the European People's Party, because it has repeated, as has already been said, the same thing as always when we talk about this subject. They always take the same amendment to the whole, with the same speech. And since it is the same speech as always, we obviously consider that, as on other occasions, we were not going to enter it either. Therefore, as I said, we will support the amendment to the whole signed by the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group, where it is recognized that the Basque system of income guarantee and social inclusion has been built thanks to the solidarity of the Basque people, and commits itself to creating this Parliament responsible and integrative discourses, avoiding accounts that sow hatred, racism and xenophobia: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to continue to use inclusive and inclusive discourses, avoiding and denouncing the use of racist and xenophobic language". It also urges the Basque Government to continue to promote the work of Ikuspegi and to maximize the dissemination of its studies and reports. He urged the Basque Government, once the broad consensus had been reached to consolidate and improve the system of income guarantee and social inclusion, to carry out that communication campaign to publicize such changes. This is also reflected in all these points in the government agreement that we signed between the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group, and here, in this initiative, we have also incorporated it again. For all these reasons, therefore, my group is going to support the amendment to the whole signed by the Basque Nationalist Group and the Basque Socialist Group, which I believe is now the most sensible and the most coherent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u29	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Too much of a lady, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. The other proposal to give the revenues to support the revenues, and to make them know them as well as to make a strong campaign, is represented by the gathering, and indisputable. We discuss every Thursdays the undertakings which concern the revenues to ensure, and we already see that, thanks to our protection system of society, the degree of cohesion in the state and in Europe is one of the highest. In this sense, the parliamentor had asked him to thank you for the steps necessary to improve the rental regulations, and as you know, and other spokesmen said that the report is about to be reached, because it is now over, and the head physician has asked to explain it in the committee. We have no doubt agreed that to fix and strengthen the system is a collective purpose. Of course, we agree with that, Mrs. Kottaja's. We cannot forget that society's protective system is in force because of the solidness of the eupscal society. It is important to bear in mind that we must be supportive today, and we must also be able to continue to be so in the future. We have an obligation to continue to have a powerful protection system for our children and grandchildren and for generations to come. We also believe that it is essential to defend the future of the system, as well as its sustainability, as has been reflected in some of the initiatives that have been unanimously adopted in this House. We share with the proposer the criticisms she makes of certain media and attitudes of some political representatives, aimed at targeting income guarantee income. We believe that weak favor they do to achieve a society of solidarity and cohesion, and weak favor they do to coexistence. To the end of what the understanding demands, it will be contrary to our vote on the first point, for the reason which we shall now explain. It's true there's been a change from the basic initiative, because in the basics it's asked to make an advertising campaign match to make RGI understand and prepare for the subjective right, and, as we said, when a report is being planned to change the rule of the fun and when it is to be brought, we couldn't see the need for this publicity campaign at this moment. As we have often said in politics, the moment of politics is of immense importance, and in this case the moment seemed to us extremely inappropriate in the case of the fundamental initiative, although we agree on the basis, and ourselves unite the necessity of this advertising campaign in our correction. Eubertarians support the welfare systems of society. We've always defended ourselves, unlike others. Our attitudes and speechs are on the side of the system and will continue to be, as well as the representative of the Jestric Party and the representative of the Basque M Gustave. As for the second point of basic initiative, we won't even protect him. He wants us to finish up with those stupid, racist attitudes, but we don't think that's the end of it with a Christmas-style book. If it were so easy, we should have a great many books of style in different administrations, and in every state, because the rational discourses are giving them over to many states. It seems to us that, while sharing its goal of eradicating xenophobic and racist discourses, seeking to do so by asking the Government, in particular the Department of Employment and Social Policy, a style book is like killing a cannon fly. This style book could not in any case oblige the private sphere, nor in particular the private media, as intended by the GNP. In addition, the second paragraph of its compromise amendment mentions the issue of advertising and subsidies, which are denied, but here we could enter into legal contradictions, because there is legislation which expressly states that certain advertisements, etc., must be made in the most popular media in the province or the Autonomous Community, etc. Therefore, we could even enter into legal contradictions. With regard to Podemos's self-qualified "partial amendment of amendment", we believe that this is an amendment of addition that will not count on our votes either, so far, and above all because it seems to us totally inconsistent with the position maintained by Podemos in the debate on budgets, in which he advocated the deletion of the headings relating to advertising, advertising... And now, on the other hand, they are calling for a powerful campaign to publicize the RGI and its subjective right status. We don't think it's reasonable, at least. With regard to the amendment by the People's Party, the first point, as other speakers have also said, is that which represents each and every one of the initiatives that are presented related to RGI, and is the axis of their political discourse regarding the Basque system of protection. Furthermore, we believe that it is not directly related to the issue before us today, so we will not support it. The second point is what the Government is already doing, the amendment of the law. That report is being prepared, which will serve as a basis for us to discuss it here in Parliament. And in mid-May – the attendance is already requested – will present the report that will serve as the basis or script for the improvement of income guarantee income regulation. So what you are asking for will be in Parliament long before the four-month deadline you are asking for. Ez dugu babestuko, ezta era. The medium signed with the Socialist Party celebrates the solidity of the Basque Society, the origin of the protective system of society. In like manner, he requires the Assembly of Laws to exclude the Chenphobic and Racists of Speech. The eubertarian party clearly perceives that it is our responsibility to avoid such speeches and attitudes. The correction demands the same thing to you, and so does it. To play with responsibility is required and to have integrated discourses. Also, the work of the view is proclaimed. As you all know more than once, the view has made and published reports to finish with stereotypes, such as the immigrants unites into numbers the differences of the money they receive. It is clear from this report that the contribution that immigrants make, related to taxes such as the IRPF, VAT..., is much higher than the amounts they receive for RGI, PCV and AES. In addition to the demographic contribution they make, it also gives very positive data. I think it is important to highlight the reports that Ikuspegi makes, because sometimes it seems that we only keep the negative things that are published, and the positive ones we never mention. I think it is important to also focus on these reports, which also, with objective data, value the contribution of the people who have decided to come and live with us and us. And at the final point, after you've changed your incomes by agreement, that's what you're doing when you're in the middle, when you're in the middle, when you're in the middle, when you're making a piece of publicity for the change, you're asking me to start it. After you've made changes, which I think you've noticed and you've picked up in the middle of the line. And that's all. We won't even protect the middle media for what has been said.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Passing by the turn of the answers, represent the EH Group. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u32	Again, good morning. To be honest, I must say that I have been delighted to hear all that I heard, because I think that we have been so much employed in this so-called tone, and that it always seems to me to be very grateful to me. And I got off with my motor, because you said, when the second part of the initiative was concerned, at least, that nothing could be done with the book of style. We also have a share of it, we have it. We know that this is not going to be a panacea and that it won't be possible to avoid such behavior. But this is not something special or something that has never been done. For instance, on the 29th of February, 2016, the Election also signed it with so much communication, I'll tell you how it's called SCRIPT... "Medio centenicæs de comunicación y agencias de publicidad de Euscad se comprometen con un código deontológico deunicación y publicacion no sexist." I think it's what we're planning here to establish certain guarantees, that's all we're saying. And, of course, we are aware that this alone will not succeed in transforming these attitudes or imaginary and arguments entirely, but it may be a small specimen. It may be a grain, as it is a grain, that such controversies are here brought about, or such arrangements, to keep them in such firm postures as they have always kept, or to keep firm in those designs which the chief physician can make. Then I think they're grainy. And, on the other hand, I'd say to Mrs. Sánchez and Mrs. Arrez that we've had the custom since the beginning of the law to arrive in agreement, and that the parliamentary near you says, "You always get to the agreements"; so it is. Eta, orduan, uste dut, arazoa hor baldin bazegoen, adibidez, daten kontuan arazoa baldin zegoen, if the problem was on the dates, Mrs Sánchez, with having communicated it perhaps we could have reached an agreement. Because, as we see in the transaction, we also saw that, given that this discussion was being brought today and that Mrs Artolazabal had in fact already communicated her intention to present those reforms, or the proposals her department is making in the area of reform of the GIR, because it seemed to us quite prudent that, after that participatory process that has to be given in order to reach that long-awaited consensus, we could launch that communication campaign. I believe that, simply, the positions were different at this point, they were very different from the beginning, and again we have seen that the subject... Well, well, I don't know if our proposal is going to address this by killing flies with cannons, but what I'm not very clear about is what is the alternative that this government is proposing to deal with these strategies that we are marked with. What is the alternative presented by this Government to deal precisely with all these issues that appear in the presentation we have made earlier. How Mrs Artolazabal is going to lead a reform process from the consensus with torpedoes that constantly reach us in that line. So, this is killing flies with cannons, but I would like to know what alternative we are being asked, because the truth is that in the amendment, beyond collecting things that are very interesting, it does not bring great news either. I would tell Mrs Garrido that we do not conceal from her the abuses that may be, that we have no intention of concealing them, and that we have no intention of taking any other precautions. And it is true that certain things have been known in the way of the media, but that they themselves have said many lies in the same manner. And it's true that so many other situations have been concealed, and we all know what the position of your team has been. So I'm going to finish it the way it was before. I'll tell you that our hands are ready to work in this sense, but don't make any mistake on the way, we'll use the interposition, but not with those new impressions, because we know where they are. Let us push the eucalypic system into those ways agreed upon, and not with those and groups which have not agreed on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Together, Poedemus. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u34	Thank you. Mrs. Garrido, things cost money, of course. It seems to us that money invested in citizenship is worth it, from the first to the last euro. I am surprised that you are suggesting that doing this campaign would have a cost that is not worth investing, because, of course, I think of it, because I know how to recycle the grant to the Foundation Popular Basque Studies, which could be made to launch this campaign. A couple more things. I insist (I know I'm heavy, but I insist), GIR is a subjective right and therefore a benefit, not an aid. Building speech also goes through that. Mrs. Garrido, I'll be back with you. What does your speech do, and what does it do to know that a person who collects GIR has committed a crime? Really, I'm asking because I'm really curious, because I don't understand. I believe that the judicial system, which takes care of people who have committed crimes, has one way, and the social protection system has another way, and mixing one thing with the other is mixing barbecues with merinas. When Rodrigo Rato or Ignacio González go to the public hospital I don't think anyone questions that they have the right to health, despite being criminals. I think we need to think a little bit about what we're saying, because we're throwing one part of the population against another, and that's not just not fair, it's irresponsible. Look at him. Mrs Sánchez, Mrs Arregi, if you were in agreement with the campaign, it is a shame to know now, because we could have raised it and perhaps tried to reach an agreement. In any case, Mrs Sánchez, you have mentioned that the time is not right to launch this campaign, and I do want to move that we do not agree, because right now is the right time, when there will be a lot of headlines and when we must, more than ever, take care of the speech we are making on this issue. I insist, we are not against freedom of expression, but against financing certain speeches with public media. On the budgets, Mrs Arregi, we are proposing a reduction, not an elimination. I have already said that the money invested in citizenship is well invested. If I didn't agree with the style book, I would really like, if not now at some point, to sit down and think about what they're proposing. Because I, as Mrs Kortajarena mentioned, am in doubt. With regard to what you have mentioned about Ikuspegi's studies, first of all I would like to highlight it, because it seems to me that they are very good studies and that they are very good work teams, but we also ask the question of how far these publications from Ikuspegi get, comparing it with where the publications of certain media come from. In any case, I do insist on something that the Basque Government's own anti-rumbling network has taught me: on the one hand, that the utilitarian view of immigration is not the solution to end racist speeches, and, on the other hand, that rumors are not only dismantled with data, or almost never dismantled with data rather. Just one last thing. I agree with Mrs Kortajarena that I am happy with the tone, and most of all I hope, and I want to leave it here as the last moment of my speech, that in what is coming we will be able to build more and better than we have been in this initiative, because I think we have an opportunity, but I am sure that we have a very great responsibility. Thank you. Just like that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u36	Well, I'll start with Mrs. Kortajarena. And also following with the same tone, obviously, because political criticism certainly doesn't have to lead us to the insult and disqualification, which is what some spokespersons – and I regret it – of Podemos lately in this rostrum. Perhaps what should be produced is precisely a style book for EH Bildu parliamentarians in this House, so that they learn to address with respect other legitimate representatives of citizens in this House. Mrs. Kortajarena, I'm coming with you, what happens is that the appeal has been direct to Podemos because obviously I had to do it. What he calls torpedoes are precisely realities that make themselves manifest. This is evidenced by the media, and is also corroborated by the data that this Government has been giving us and that you also know and that is official data. And what we have done in some parties is echo this problem and bring it to Parliament through numerous initiatives. This issue has been recurrent in this House on the proposal of the People's Party, but not since the last parliamentary term, for a long time. All I have to say is that the People's Party, when the 2008 law was passed, has already proposed, although this particular initiative has not been approved, the creation of a control unit. And then successive executives considered not only creating that control unit, but strengthening it, as Mr Urkullu's executive now seems to be doing. Well, I have already told Mrs Guanche that it would also be advisable to propose to us in this House to draw up a style book specifically and specifically addressed to the parliamentarians of Podemos. Because, look, what I'm not gonna admit is that I'm missing the truth. It's not all worth it here. It's not all worth it. It's not all worth it. And no one here, nor this spokesman, has said that those who charge GIR are criminals. I should therefore withdraw those words. But there may be criminals who charge the RGI, and I imagine you won't be in favor of criminals covering the RGI. I imagine you won't be in favor of criminals covering the GIR. For, look, the People's Party with its proposals is trying to prevent criminals, with criminal records precisely for the commission of certain crimes, from covering the GIR. I therefore believe that you deliberately confuse the terms, and I think that you should be a little more respectful of the views of other groups represented in this House, because in politics not everything is worth, not everything is worth, although for some it seems to be worth everything. But, well, politics is a long way, I also have to remind you, and you in this Parliament have a very short life, and you will also by your facts know them. Access to the financial benefits provided for in the Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act is a subjective right, because it is precisely the law. I therefore believe that the initiative of EH Bildu, and the compromise amendment signed, if it tries to reinforce this idea, I believe that it does not contribute anything today to the debate in this House. Frankly, I believe that his speech has been covered with a certain demagogy which also does not add to the creation of a stronger social protection system. He mentioned here that Ms. Arregia needs to fix and strengthen the system. Yes, especially that's the point, and that's what we're supposed to do by correcting the gaps in the system, and that's what we expect the government to do with the reform that will bring it. We have defended a number of proposals, Mrs Arregi. I already feel like we're being repetitive again, but it's that our goal is that reform of the RGI, that reform of Lanbide. We proposed this in our first two initiatives, and obviously, when a debate is being held in this House about RGI or Lanbide, we also bring those proposals, so that once and for all we can set up a just, sustainable system, so that the aid really reaches the people who need it and that the system really works. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u37	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u38	Well, Mrs. Guanche, you pointed out that it's not a concession to carry out the campaign. I believe that I have made it clear that we agree that this campaign must be carried out, and that was also clear in the amendment of the whole that we tabled together with the Basque Nationalist Group, because at one point it was already saying what time we considered it to be the right time, and that is why we do not agree to do so now. We have explained, I have clearly explained what the reasons were. We're about to make the whole change. Just as we did in the area of the subjective right to social services campaign, I believe that we have to do exactly at the same time with regard to income guarantee income, so that it is much more effective, and that we know these changes, just at the moment when they occur, as many people as possible. That's what we've been defending. Therefore, we will meet in the future, there is no problem. Today we have not reached an agreement, today this initiative is not going to come out, but I believe that with what we have to remain the different groups is that we do agree to carry out that campaign, even at another time. And I think that is a good thing, even though none of the amendments tabled in their entirety are likely to be adopted here today. And then, Mrs Kortajarena, it's not that you're not going to get anything; it's that you can't use what's in the book. You can't make a media guide book, and say, "Well, you have this book..." But they're not being told that with initiative; they're being told, "If you don't do what I'm going to put in the book, I'm going to punish you." Which is not a guide book; it's a book that you're making as if it's a rule that you're creating, in a way, because you're collecting that if you don't comply with what that book marks you're going to punish them, or it's provided in their initiative that they can be punished, because they have to withdraw all the subsidies, and besides, you can't get into advertising in those media, to take away the money that that investment entails. And there I also agree with Mrs Arregi, who would also be involved in failing to comply with a rule that is telling you that advertising has to be put in the most popular media in the Basque historical territories. Therefore, there is already a distortion, with which, of course, we do not agree. And what I have already said is that it is independent that we actually agree that these media should not use a xenophobic or racist speech in carrying out those information that they have been doing for a long time in all matters relating to income-guarantee income, because in the end they are distorting the existing reality. But, of course, it cannot be done in this way, because in a certain way I believe that in that way there is also a certain attack on that freedom of expression, which cannot be done in that way. Freedom of expression for the media, of course, although we obviously do not agree, because we have been raised by the vast majority of the House's parliamentary groups, with which they are giving that line in many of them. And, Mrs Garrido, although you have once again made the same point in this initiative, and every time something is presented with regard to income guarantee income, I do not lose my hope, and I hope that one day I will find it in consensus with all the parliamentary groups in the House when it comes to reaching a unanimous agreement on all matters relating to improving and carrying out all initiatives relating to income guarantee income. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u39	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. And finally, the Eubertarians represent the team. Too much of a woman, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u40	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Madame of the Kortja, that we must change the collective imagery or fancyery, and that we must work there, perfectly agreeing with that, how can we not? And that's why, in our middle-class correction, we're sorry, that's the commitment to the parliament, you know, and I'll read it to you. "The Basque Parliament...", hemen etxerako lanak norberaren buruarekin hasten said, gure ustez, eta esaten dugu: "The Basque Parliament undertakes to create responsible and integrative discourses, avoiding accounts that sow hatred, racism or xenophobia". We think we have to start over this kind of speech, and it seems important to us to make our demands and ask you to do it in the same way that we're asking you to do it. As I said, the style of books, I know it's not the first time, we know, but we didn't see it, as we said from the first moment. And it is true that the Government has spoken to the media more than once, and has explained how it sees those uses and attitudes, but it is not easy to go beyond, as you know, it is not easy. With regard to Podemos, with regard to Mrs Guanche, I will not accept her saying that if the compromise amendment is not adopted, which is not adopted, solidarity is not important; if it is not approved, racism is to be increased. I think those statements, those statements that you have made here, that I think I have taken at the bottom of the letter, I think that (yes; no, no...; read later in the Journal of Sessions)..., I think they get exactly what you with your transactional intended to avoid. I think we and we have to be the first careful in the use of language. He said that where Ikuspegi's reports come from, that rumors almost never end with data... We can share it, but that's why we say that, like the headlines, those headlines that we share that are devastating to the system itself and to the survival of the GIR, so I think it's also good to focus on the positive, and that's why we also wanted to pick it up in the compromise amendment, and that's why we mentioned it here. With regard to the campaign, of course we agree, we said this in our amendment as a whole. What is happening is that the original amendment was talking about campaigning right now, and we have not been aware of the transactional until it was distributed shortly before we went down to the rostrum. We could assume that there was going to be a transactional, but not that the fact of time had changed and that the campaign had been after the amendment had been approved. That wasn't anywhere and we couldn't guess. Anyway, I'll take the positive. I think we have an opportunity, and, as you said, Mrs Guanche, a very great responsibility in the amendment when we are presented with that report which is going to serve as a guide or basis for the modification, improvement, effectiveness of the system itself, which must be fair and sustainable (we share that with the People's Party too), and I believe that consensus and respect for subjective law and the system itself are not in doubt in this Parliament, that support is unanimous, and I believe that Mrs Garrido and the People's Party will also be able to join the agreement you mentioned. And I believe, in conclusion, that those headlines and those racist and xenophobic speeches, of course, as I said in my first speech, do nothing to help the coexistence and cohesion of this society, and they must be banished. And we all have to try to make speeches in favour of this coexistence, leaving aside stereotypes and speeches that can lead to hatred, racism or xenophobia. I think it is everyone's job, starting with us here in this Parliament. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. When we're done arguing, we'll vote for EH, and we'll go together to the middle-direction signed by the Podemos teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 73; supporters of 28; opponents of the contrary, 45; white, 0; abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u42	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Groups. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 71; votes given, 73; supporters 8; opponents of the contrary, 65; white, 0; abstations 0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u43	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. And finally, we vote for the Eucabertians and the Sociialists of Basque Socialists in full-line correction. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 73; supporters 36; opponents of the opposite, 9; white, 0; abstaining, 28.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u44	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Third point in theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary group of Podemos, as regards the decision of the European emigrants in Europe, in order to be an effective and credible policy in the return area of the US. Discipline and final resolution. It's the caller's turn. Mrs. Guanche, it's your word to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u45	Good morning again. Thank you. I am glad to present this proposition to you, because we have come to a good agreement, and I think it would be necessary for us to do so, yes or no. Thank you for the parliamentary teams. They have been forced to avoid more than 65 million persons because of war, owing to violence, and because their fundamental rights are constantly broken up. The Migreurop organisations in the State complain that the proposals agreed by the European Community on 2 March put the rights of migrants living in Europe at risk, while regretting that the proposed measures on the return directive are a new step in the construction of the so-called Europe fortitude and show – this is textual – "the European Union's obsession with expelling migrants rather than respecting their rights and proposing measures to save their lives". According to the European Migration Agency itself, these proposals presented by the Commission contained measures for an effective and credible European Union return policy. I put this question to the House: are you effective for what?, are you effective for who? Is this the Europe of human rights? On the one hand, the measures make specific recommendations to the Member States. The first is to improve coordination between all authorities and services involved in the return process, which we would certainly like to see if such protection were to ensure that people want and have a place to return. The second is to eliminate inefficiencies by shortening the time limits and other measures, with the unintended intention of curbing the number of residents in an irregular situation. To combat abuses of the system by resorting to the possibility of examining asylum applications in expedited procedures, or, if deemed appropriate, at the border, where it is suspected that the submission of applications is only intended to delay the execution of a return decision. Of course, an intention to control survival abuses, from which we have to protect ourselves. If there is a person trying to delay the return, shouldn't we perhaps wonder why he needs to delay that return? Next step, to prevent escapes by detaining persons who have received a return decision and to show signs of not sticking to it. Again, putting forward the suspicion of poverty and misery and equipping it with crime. They create voluntary return support programs that are operational by June 1, 2017, and ensure information on voluntary return. Did you know that if in this state you take up that voluntary return program you have a five-year entry ban? Will this be the information given to the citizenry, or would that change? It also proposed a new plan of action on return, in which it also proposed concrete measures that would further disaggregate: The increase in financial aid to the Member States, with 200 million euros in 2017. In other words, there seems to be no money or possibility of fulfilling the agreed commitments to host refugees, but there does seem to be to expel those who have been seeking a life to a place that is responsible for not having it in their countries. Improving the exchange of information to implement repatriations, in proposals relating to the Schengen information system. In other words, a space that was born to facilitate the free movement of people, today becomes the strengthening of mechanisms for returning them. Exchange of best practices to ensure consistency and uniformity of reintegration aid in all Member States, to prevent countries of origin from favouring returns from countries offering higher reintegration aid. Because it seems a sin that people could choose to build a future somewhere. The offer also to member states of the full support of the European Border Coast Guard Agency; create mechanisms for commercial flights to finance returns; intensify training in third country authorities... Take it, and more money for the Frontex. Frontex, a militarised and murdering agency; an agency that asks for and consumes money for control policies and puts the borders of the European Union further and more inaccessible. Also, let us not forget, more money for flights of shame. The resolution of the difficulties of readmission, striving to quickly conclude the negotiations on readmission agreements with Nigeria, Tunisia and Jordan, and the dialogue also with Morocco and Algeria. Betting on agreements with countries such as Nigeria, where Boko Haram has caused a humanitarian catastrophe, not to mention Jordan, overflowing with hospitality being so small, or Morocco, which every day violates the rights of women, LGBTIQ people and those who disagree politically, in addition to having condemned, and continue to do so, the Saharawi people. That said: once again, the face of Europe of shame. Within the framework of the partnership, the use of a collective leverage effect in a coordinated and effective manner through tailor-made approaches to third countries to jointly manage migration and return cooperation. This agreement is definitely focused, as we have seen, on further shielding this land. We do not see a measure that has to do with solidarity, with acceptance, with opening up the arms to so many human beings who, even of another color or speaking another language, are like us, but were born in the wrong place. Therefore, it seems that we are allowed to steal their future. But this agreement would also, in our view, violate Articles 1 and 2 of the Treaty on European Union, which speak of respect for human rights in all the Union's policies, something which is obviously not respected in these agreements. I again raise a question for reflection: is this what Europe needs? Is this to listen to the people we represent, who have gone out to the street to shout "Ongi etorri errefuxiatuak!"? Although the title of this document by which the proposal is born is – textually – "Migration on the Central Mediterranean route. Managing flows, saving lives", we see how this agreement contains a phrase that says: "This joint communication (...) sets out a new set of global operational actions that must be rapidly adopted by all stakeholders to help save lives, fight against smuggling of migrants, improve the conditions of migrants and refugees in transit countries in North Africa, encourage the return of countries of origin and, as a last resort" (I repeat, "as last resort"), "contain the influx of migrants". It is clear that these measures focus on the repatriation of more than one million people, putting their fundamental rights at risk. We believe that it is essential to define the role that Euskadi wants to play in this, because measures such as these proposed by the European Community will only cause the figures to increase. We remember: one in thirty-four people trying to reach Europe dies (repeat: die) drowned in the Mediterranean. In addition, these measures raise other questions of dubious ethical value, such as increasing the maximum periods of detention up to eighteen months, pursuing again and offering prison to those who only struggle for a future. Today we are putting forward a compromise amendment that challenges us and adjusts us to what we can do from here, from Euskadi. It sets out a clear position of this Parliament and of the community, adjusted, I believe, to what its people demand of us. In the first instance, eskerrik asko to the groups for the generosity of having managed to reach this agreement. And we say: We ratified the agreement on 22 December, noting the commitment of the Basque institutions to ensure that all people have access to resources. We share, as an institution, the institutional declaration of 3 April, and channel through the intergroup of refugees and the General Secretariat for Human Rights the commitment to work to give the best possible response to migrants and refugees residing in Euskadi. In addition, we reiterate our commitment and demand to guaranteed policies of foreign policy, asylum, migration and shelter, relying on strict compliance with human rights. Because, in our view, offering this compromise also means negotiating on the possibility that the Euskadi will become a reality with regard to the reception of refugees. I think this agreement is a great starting point for this. I would like once again to thank Mrs Romero and the rest of her companions for their generosity in having managed to reach this agreement, leaving us, of course, all hairs in the catera, but putting forward that the winner is Euskadi. In conclusion, and without further ado, I would like to bring here a few words from the "Behind the Border" report: "Only in a corner, ensimized, Raoul looks at the horizon looking for answers, signs of comfort about his situation. Because from his furthest memories, he is almost nonexistent, he is no longer anyone. It's just loneliness and misery, it's just pain. He was despised by the look different from 'the others'. But in the deepest of its bowels there is conviction and hope, there is a light, however small, that is there. Your answer, the solution, your miraculous remedy that will put an end to everything: Boza! " Shatter against wind and tide. Raoul thinks of fighting, even if it is dangerous, for the tiny ray of redemption that remains for him and even if the probability is almost zero. Yes, the desire to conquer that dwells in him will take him to the limit of his efforts on the Great Way. Over and over again, he's gonna yawn. Even if you have to cross your entire country walking because you've been returned, you'll 'baza'. Even if he has to survive begging, he will 'baza'. Even if he has to suffer the 'Kassora' on a daily basis, he will 'baza'. Even if it has to be thrown into the sea in punctured plastic coffins waiting for an uncertain rescue, it will'shut'. Because it yawns, when it wins us, the risk no longer matters and it obsesses us. "In our dialogues we only talk about shoal, in our dreams it is present. In all of our actions there is always the boza. "I prefer it to die, it is often heard. Looks like it's an end. We will believe that the lifeless bodies lying on the ground or the bodies floating on the coast manifest their joy through a smile. But one wonders whether that supposed smile expresses rather the relief of having left this world of misery, greed, hypocrisy, intolerance, indifference, or the joy of having tried. "After a long sigh Raoul comes back to reality and thinks: I prefer and I must dream of sham." By many fences, by many walls, hope will continue to give wings to the people to whom we have a duty to welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Passing over to the leaders' team, representing the EH Collect Group. Madam Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u47	Thank you, good morning. What do you say today? What am I supposed to say this time? As a matter of fact, Mrs. Guanche's present, I believe all that has been said has been said. We've already talked about this whole meeting, about the serious situation that the refugees live on, we've discussed the question of the Human Rights Committee, you're working together, but at the same time Mrs. Roméro also asked a question at the Human Rights Committee: what has happened since last year, what has become of legislation? We have sometimes to ask from this point of view, to encourage, to denounce, to betray, and to do so again, and we will do it all the time, because it troubles us and is a concern that is shared. The reasons for being repressed are various. And the discussion of these conditions is plain in the different occurrences that have been taken. In the treaty made by the European Union with Turkey, the countries have been reduced to a state of war. But we mustn't forget that if anyone has decided to leave his house, it has been a serious problem behind. Because your sexuality can lead you to death, because there is no food, because there are many situations that life risks. Is that horren auraan zer egiten dugu? "It is a real shame that borders exist." I'm not saying it, Arcadi Oliveres says it. Mr Oliveres participated in Gernika in the days organized by Ongi Etorri Errefuxiatuak, where it was shown that we have a society ready to welcome and accompany. On the same day, one of the speakers of the anticapitalism workshop and a reference in the criticism of transnational corporations and for human rights, Juan Hernández Zubizarreta, explained the functioning of the architecture of impunity. He made it very clear that we are immersed in a silent civilizational crisis, provoked by structurally violent capitalism. When we talk about it, we also have to talk about exploitation, and in particular about the use of women's bodies as a currency of exchange. He told us about necropolitics, which let people literally die, and framed the murders of leaders in that alliance between the legal economy and the criminal economy, based on the triumvirate oligarchies-governments-transnational enterprises. And many who are responsible for these offsets have made an agreement with Turkey, in order that no one should enter their lands. They've led people to change places, they've created a crisis, and of course they don't want to worry about it. "La genete no se shift porque hay guerras, hay guerras para haer a la genete," the members of CAR say. And in the unjust state of these persons who occupy these offsets, we are desirous to oppose the policy of the States. They're ready, they've been shown more than once. As long as we have not secure passages, we have in ours some of the members of the Basques, who have set the civil disobedience in motion, who have been accused of treatment, and, as the interrogation plainly explained, we cannot mix together and treat them. In the presence of this pause, before a halt, before a rightless halt, it is legitimate to defend the freedom and right of the people, the position of the fireman who has put his conscience into practice as legitimately as it is. I feel the need to continue to make an impact that this is not a refugee crisis; it is a crisis of the model itself. Forced migration is the result of all the policies that are being carried out by different governments, military interventions, the plundering of natural resources, the sale of weapons... That is why we stress the conscientious objection of the firefighter who objected to participating in the port of Bilbao in the shipment of weapons to Saudi Arabia. There is no competence in migration policy, we know that, but there is one to ensure the protection of human rights by monitoring practices carried out from Basque multinationals abroad, what kind of goods are transported through our lands, etc., etc. There were about twenty thousand people in Guernica, at a head of solidarity and accusation, and it was said clearly: no war, no free traffic of people. Let us, considering this, continue to work in the direction proposed to us in this middle-way, to activate the undertakings, and form the projects we have in our hands. Thank you all for all of you who have made this medium possible.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Counselors, counselor. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, to all and all. I believe that the generosity and willingness has been of all the parliamentary groups and of all those who want to cooperate with us. I am not going to repeat myself in my speech of 22 December last, in the proposal that we approved and that we ratified, because I believe that I was heard in this Parliament during this same debate in other committees. Certainly, we are facing a serious humanitarian crisis, which I often define more as a serious crisis of solidarity, in which there are greater and lesser responsibilities, but the crisis exists, and it is still far from being addressed, as they have said. It is true that I asked what had happened two years ago, but it is also true that we cannot fall into either complacency or oblivion. I remember the representative of UNHCR telling me not to give up, and I said I was desperate but not giving up, resisting. In that sense, it is true that I will not repeat myself in all the positions I have made on behalf of the Basque Socialist parliamentary group. It is clear that we share, like the majority in this House, that Euskadi's position must be respect for international humanitarian law and political agreements and decisions that are in accordance with conventions that guarantee human rights. And from there come the rest of the positions that we have maintained and that we also do with regard to all the policies of asylum, alienation, refuge and protection of the people who need it. And I say that in whatever measure it is proposed and at any institutional level, and therefore I will not repeat myself. Solidarity is already expressed, but it is good that we reiterate it and that, as the proposer said, we do not comply with or endorse migration and asylum policies that are committed to putting obstacles and excuses that lead to the death of refugees and migrants, in their desperate attempt to reach Europe. For the same reason, we share the view that migration, asylum and shelter policies should not become repressive measures, nor should they be formulated without taking into account, as I have said, that international humanitarian law and those international conventions on respect for human rights. We do not share the migration policies that are based on securitization, control, outsourcing and militarization, we have said this on many occasions. The principle must be another and the very different objective, which will be unique and exclusively to assist such persons, to manage safe channels of violence and abuse, death and trafficking in persons; to host them in safe and human rights-friendly countries; to promote international cooperation, yes, which is the best way to act definitively on these grounds to make them flee from poverty and misery. And that's our responsibility. For these reasons, we stress once again those policies which are based on those principles and which do not have the objectives that I believe most Basque citizens share. But that is why we also believe that, once we have spoken about this aspect, it is up to us to develop what is our responsibility. That is why the signatories and signatories of the transactional proposal focus on where we are going to work. In the intergroup, in collaboration with the Secretariat for Human Rights, we want to give an integral response to these people, but we want to do so on a prior diagnosis of their situation, their needs; we want to know how they have arrived, how they have arrived. Because the solution, as the interveners and the intervener who will follow me know, is not the same for all the collectives. This is a plural collective, not all have the same needs, not all are at the same time vital or procedural many times, regarding their legal situation, and there are no magical solutions for all without an effective diagnosis that allows to give the best of the answers, from Basque competences, to integrate that citizenship, to that new citizenship that awaits us. Because I also believe that the Basque Government has a definitive commitment to these emerging challenges of integrating that new citizenship, which we all share and we just have to develop. I therefore do not repeat myself, because they know that we will do so, and we will start working on the 23rd day on these solutions from a shared point of view, taking into account both the social actors and organisations and other institutional levels who are obliged to intervene in this matter. But I also agree that what can be extended over time cannot prevent us from taking urgent solutions that are in our hands. In this regard, we have the proposals that have been developed by the Secretariat for Human Rights, which are also endorsed by the declaration of the autonomous defenders, in which they urged us from a consensus, a dialogue, from the work at the negotiating table, to intervene in saving people through pilot experiences of humanitarian corridors that would save their lives, and above all to save them from shipwrecking throughout this totum revolution of lack of solidarity and organization to provide the solidarity that does exist. Because the flaw we have at the moment is that some – I said earlier – have more responsibility than others, but those who have responsibility and want to act see that they have to agree and dialogue in order to enable these actions. Therefore, we focus – they have heard me more than once, and I will not repeat myself any more – more than in ours and in us, in them. As we focus on them and them, on the people who need our help, migrants and refugees who are endangering their lives and their future vital development, that is why we have also endorsed the last point of the compromise amendment. It seems to us essential that when it comes to saving the life even if it is a person, who today is a woman, a man or a much older person, an elder, but tomorrow may be our son or granddaughter... And, therefore, in view of saving the lives of only one of these people, or the possibility of integrating them, we believe that putting the slightest obstacle to that dialogue and agreement seems to us to be irresponsible. I believe that that is shared, and, as when things work well we must thank them, I thank all of you in advance that, regardless of leaving one or a thousand hairs in the catera, we have come to this principle of agreement, on which I sincerely believe we can work to keep Euskadi and the Basque citizen at the same level of exemplaryity with which they have done so since the beginning of this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Eubertarians represent the team. Too much of a woman, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u51	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature, good noon to all. With regard to the decision taken by the European Union in the Age of the European emigrants, we propose another question concerning the measures which the European Union has formed for the return of the European Union to be an efficient and credible policy. Without doubting the importance of Poseidon's fundamental initiative, especially when we consider the weakness of the collective, we must say that it is rather complicated in form; without order, the different institutions which are under our control require things. Most requests are made to the European Committee and Government of the State, and it is true it is not the first and probably not the last, nor, indeed, what demands those institutions which are out of our own sphere in the legislature. But to have some consistency in life is important both in politics and in politics. And we say this because this issue has not been dealt with before any of the legislative bodies that have the control of the executives who are called upon to take concrete action. It is a voluntary initiative, in order to do something in the face of the severe state of refugees, but in our opinion, without regard to jurisdictions and institutions. As we said to the proposed team, we agreed on the basis and agree with most of the proposed points, but the house can't start from the roof. You can't start the house on the roof. We can put forward a GNP urging the Government of the State and the European Commission without making a specific request to the Basque Government itself, on which, as an opposition, it has the function of controlling, but as in the background – although not at all in the form, or little in the form – we agree to support initiatives to improve the situation of refugees and migrants and to work for them, we have achieved a compromise amendment that will be supported by a large majority, if not unanimously. We will wait to see what the representative of the People's Party tells us. In this particularly sensitive case, and in which, I insist, in substance, all the groups agree, we want to highlight precisely the agreement, the consensus and the will for the agreement that all the groups have shown, because we share the concern about the situation of thousands of people who have had to leave their countries and have come to Europe in search of a better life. And because we also agree on the need to be more proactive, to return to the founding values of the European Union itself. We believe that Europe can and must be much more supportive, that it must make an effort to welcome all these people and give them a dignified and responsive welcome, as Mrs Romero said. Hence we have come to a middle-way, which we have attempted to place in our sphere and jurisdictions, and even in the agreements and agreements we have made to our present day, we have endeavoured to praise them in the middle. On this subject, especially in order to advance, though some think that they are small steps, they are strong, if it be of great agreement that they will be agreed to be rhapsia, and, in our opinion, it is important to get a great deal of harmony in matters, but especially in this. In middle-way, the legislatures are considered as positive, as a proposition accorded on the 22nd of December 2016, both in the case of the President's Institutional expressions on this subject in the 3rd of April, 2017. The texts are confirmed in the medium we are going to accept today. These two initiatives are two small examples of the solidarity of the Basque people and of the concern and occupation of the institutions of this country, both of the Basque Parliament itself and of the Lehendakari, in favour of refugees and migrants. Yesterday the lehendakari transferred to Juncker in Brussels Euskadi's willingness to offer additional reinforcement to the programmes of the host states. It's an offer that's been made once more, but, well, I think it's also important to bring it in. The compromise amendment acquires the commitment of this House to work and give the best possible response to this collective, working the intergroup for the defence of the rights of migrants and refugees in close collaboration with the General Secretariat for Human Rights, Co-existence and Cooperation I'd like to say two things about the half-way agreed, so as not to stretch too much on each other, wouldn't I? On the one hand, euscal institutions, together with the euccal society, have expressed their will to work, and even to criticise the position that is most passive in the European Union. And secondly, that by the medium the clear and ardent defence of all human rights is made, as you can see at the fourth point. Frankly, we believe that the best way forward, as I have said, is to maintain a firm and unanimous position, if possible, but, if not, as broad as possible, in favour of migrants and refugees, working together with all the institutions and also with the social partners, each and every one to the extent of our possibilities and competences, providing ideas and initiatives that will be able to go back to the tragic situation that thousands of people are experiencing. And obviously there is no one left in this task. Denok beharrezkoak gara elkarlanean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. A group that hasn't run any corrections. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u53	Good morning. Thank you, President. Counselors, counselor, good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Well, it repeats, the issue comes back in relation to the situation of refugees. We have to reiterate ourselves in what we have already manifested a few months ago. The first thing to do is to transfer our solidarity to so many victims of war, so many victims of terrorism, so many victims of radical barbarism, who have to flee from their peoples, from their cities, who seek refuge in Europe, and that is solidarity and that is what we have to have as an effort and as an effort; as the European Union also tries to do so, with greater or lesser effectiveness or power, but in any case I believe that seeking agreements. And we also want to continue to express our concern about these ultra-active attitudes of some collectives, of some parties, of some countries, which take advantage of the dramatic situation of refugees to generate climates of hatred and instability, where radicalism and populism find ground for policies of marginalization and exclusion. That is not the attitude of the European Union. The attitude of the European Union is very different. It is the search for agreement, for the twenty-eight concert, for twenty-seven..., and further progress, some will be able to qualify that with greater or lesser inefficiency or ineffectiveness, which is true, but in any case to continue there, which is the position that we will of course always defend. We would have preferred, in connection with this debate, that these issues were already maintained a few months ago and started a journey with the intergroup, because we would have preferred to wait for the conclusions of the meeting that representatives of the Basque Government and the Government of Spain are having this very morning on the situation of refugees and how to continue to make progress on the issue. We would have preferred to wait, then, to see, to talk about where... I believe that, well, we continue to incisive, we continue to talk about this subject, but I believe that once the intergroup was formed, once the situation was discussed and most of the issues agreed at the plenary session of the previous day, once we had also recently participated in the act of 3 April, I think, in relation to the refugees, we were building up a capacity, a possibility of work. But, well, we have to keep talking and we have to keep discussing, we have to keep looking for points, I don't know, maybe some conflict or criticism. We too understand that the framework of the intergroup can and should be a good scope of work, without having to be all the time, on some issues, seeking pronunciation, and above all I believe that sometimes seeking to disagree and disagreement. No, no! There must be another area of action in relation to these issues. We have already spoken recently, for we are now going to work in the field that we have given ourselves internally and in cooperation with the administrations on this issue. And then we also want to say that we are going to work, we are doing it in the area of the intergroup, in the more internal sphere, more action, more knowledge. Let us see what the benefits of the talks and the agreements are, which is the fundamental key, and in that regard we will wait and work. We share and support, of course, decisively (critically also on some issues, but decisively), in essence, against what other groups do, the efforts made by the European Union. We are in favour of twenty-eight or twenty-seven countries having common policies, Mrs Guanche. It is difficult, there they do leave hairs in the catera also, indeed, and things could be done better, but for us that is the key in relation to many issues. Well, it may be object and subject matter, but that's the key. The European Migration Agency is there. We do trust her. Its pronouncements could satisfy in a more intense way some pretensions, but there really has to be an instrument, there has to be an area of work, and that is. Recently the call of the European Commission..., there has been a recent call from the European Commission for efforts to implement the solidarity measures provided for in the agenda. That is, solidarity is there too. The degree of efficiency or effectiveness can be discussed and assessed, but awareness and postulate are in solidarity on these issues. Well, the committee has been criticized, there has been talk of measures for an effective and credible European Union return policy, well, questionable issues, but we are working and we have to work on this; the European Union has to do it and the states have to do it. Here are the Commission's recommendations, such as that of 7 March 2017, to achieve this effectiveness. The terms in which the European Union pronounces itself are also discussed, but there they are, and the work must be seen, understood, supported and fulfilled by the states. It is quite clear that many possibilities for action in this area are lacking, but we must continue to do so from our point of view. We have already done this approach of respect for those European decisions in the handling of the non-law proposal of last December, but I do not know, at times there are, however, some excesses. We can all commit them, but, I don't know, classify a European agency, the result of the agreement of democratic states, as a "military and murderous agency"... Mrs. Guanche, that's not right. The other day some were protesting some political approach in this House, feeling insulted, alluded to... I do not know what the European Union should do! Go to the Bureau of the Basque Parliament, ask for protection? How can you say that! I mean, I think you can criticize, but you have to have more elegance, or more objectivity, or more balance. I mean, you can't do these reviews. It's just that, with these criticisms, they want to say, "Well, I'm not in the deal," because I can't share anything with anyone who does that root disqualification of what an agency is... It is not militarized: it does not have its own equipment or border guards! No! No! Coordinate! I don't know, the truth is, I got angry when I heard that expression, but, well, I'm going to go on with my argument. To disqualify the postulates, the actions of the European Union, and that twenty-seven countries agree..., for me it is important, and of course I support, I share the action. And there have to be agencies and you have to do coordinations like the one that... you might like more or less, but the one that exists, with your problems. It is a very complicated and delicate issue, but in relation to that issue I, of course, protest against the disqualification and over-representation you have used in qualifying Frontex. We will vote in favour of the agreement you have reached in the compromise amendment. Let's vote in favour. Let's see, we do disagree on some issues. In the matter of the agreement with Turkey, and in relation to some other steps or procedures, it is also not that we agree perfectly, or we can modulate them, or we could have modulated them. In the very reflection of the lehendakari, his statement, then, we too could have... Logically, we did not have the opportunity to put the pen there, as we can do in the institutional statements of this House, but, in any case, we will understand that we are going to play in that field of play. That is to say, we will vote in favour, I say again, with the exceptions that we have already tabled in the discussion of the December No Law Proposal in relation to this issue, but understanding... In the first, ratifying that non-law proposal, well, okay. We voted in favour of all the non-legislative proposal, except for point 3, in which we abstained and expressed our disagreement. In point 2 of the transactional agreement, it shares the institutional declaration on persons made public on April 3, 2017... Well, we were on the move! We, my group, I myself was in that act and we shared reflections. And, I say again, in the statement of the lehendakari we can understand that we could include other things, but we will understand it and use it as an element of work. Of course, committing to working with the intergroup... Well, well, that's why we assume and form the intergroup, and we have to start in that framework. Perhaps these debates can be a little channeled into that performance, and we had already spoken. So, in that sense, well, okay. There is no doubt that point 4, in relation to the commitment or demand at institutional levels for policies of foreign policy, asylum, migration, shelter, which are guaranteed in the strict observance of human rights, we agree perfectly, logically. And, well, that's where they put the paragraph of "reiterating their opposition to the agreement between the European Union and Turkey". We do not share this, but, well, let's go, as it is placed there in a paragraph, let's vote in favour of the spirit, although making it from this rostrum except that we do not agree with that paragraph. And the last, then, "the Basque Parliament..., in favour of a proactive attitude in favour of dialogue and agreement on initiatives in this area". Indeed, in this Parliament, in this country, in Spain, in the General Courts, in the European Union, among the twenty-seven states that are currently negotiating policies, we agree with dialogue and agreements, to influence and make progress in the defence of human rights and the rights of refugees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u54	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing on the answering shift together Podemos. Mrs. Guanche from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u55	Yes, very fast. Mrs Arregi, it is true that neither in Europe nor in Congress has been debated, I have had to comment on it before. For me it is a pride that we are the first to position ourselves and continue to offer that commitment that we also have on April 3 in the form of an institutional declaration. Mr. Barrio, we consider that we are not looking for the disagreement (it is that I do not see you...), that we are not looking for the disagreement, but that in the face of a new situation it was necessary to move on to this. However, we will continue to think well about the next one, because perhaps the intergroup of refugees is the space to continue working. We also value Europe, but Europe which certainly shields human rights. If you've been upset, you've been upset that you said that Frontex is a murderous agency, I'm withdrawing that part; the militarized part isn't. You know that elegance does not necessarily have to be my strong one, but I do believe that Frontex has a clear role to play in moving Europe's borders away from other areas where human rights cannot be guaranteed, and in that sense I meant it. I'm sorry if it's not clear. And ultimately I thank all of you for your generosity and that we have been able to reach this agreement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Houseland, must not speak a word. Basque Socialists. Ms. Romero, that's your word from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u57	Thank you, Madam President. If you'll allow me, from the seat, just to thank everyone for their generosity in the agreement. I am a little less desperate today, because I believe, indeed, that the agreement is important. We have responded with the responsibility that is needed and the generosity that is due. We have moved from words to deeds, from statements to actions, and from speeches to proposals. We know that we are going to make a diagnosis in the intergroup, that we are going to try to work with people who know the situation, organizations and associations and our institutions, and in addition to that we are going to support different governments in a situation, so that we can save people. That's what we can possibly contribute to, and if we help save one person, the truth is that I feel deeply grateful to all of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Madame Arregi mustn't speak a word.... Mr. Barrio mustn't speak a word. Now that the debate is over, we'll vote together with Podemos, Euskal Socialists, EH Collect and the Eunciators, the middle-line correction that is signed by the U.S.A.s. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 72; the votes are 74; the supporters are 74; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; the abstainations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u59	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "The other proposal of the Parlamentarian Society as made by the Parlamentary Popular, in the production of an organizational co-ordination for tourism. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Madame Lopez de Ocariz, the ex-consul of the Basque Group, has the word to present and take over the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u60	Thank you, Madam President, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. The initiative that I am presenting on behalf of the People's Group refers to the tourism sector, specifically the Tourism Act that was adopted in this House on July 28, 2016, just ending the previous legislature. It stated that, in order to achieve effectively the objectives set out in the tourism policy, it is essential to coordinate the public administrations of Euskadi carrying out activities relating to the tourism sector, and that it will be carried out by any formula provided for in the legislation in force. It is true that this initiative was presented in the debate we had on the tourism amendments, but there was no consensus to incorporate it, and that is why our group considers it appropriate to incorporate it, because it is necessary, as is said in the preamble to the law itself. I believe that we all agree or can agree that the planning of the policy of management, inspection, promotion and competitiveness of tourism and the corresponding lines of action must be the result of the debate, coordination and confrontation of the competent administrations. Innovation, professional cooperation and inter-institutional coordination must be among the powerful pillars of tourism policy. Inter-agency coordination between cities so as not to overwhelm events. Coordination in how we schedule and coordinate the congresses that take place in Euskadi; in how to improve the competitiveness of tourism in Euskadi; in how to maintain the dialogue and the constant coordination with all the tourist agents and sectors of our autonomous community. Coordination in the management and structuring of the tourist offer of Euskadi, in order to generate shared messages and arguments. Coordinate how to correctly locate events of tourist interest in the calendar of our towns and cities. Promotion and dynamism of tourism through cooperation agreements between administrations. In short, ladies and gentlemen, achieve the greatest impacts and optimize the resources and budgets that are destined for the dynamism of tourism; work on how to increase interest in the destination Euskadi, how to strengthen the presence of the destination Euskadi on social networks, to encourage the exchange of experiences among users, in order to contribute to improve the level of knowledge and perception of the destination Euskadi. Ladies and gentlemen, the tourism sector is very important, we are at a full height, and every opportunity must be sought. Each corner of our autonomous community has a tourist potential, and for that it is essential inter-institutional coordination. We presented an initiative in which we urged the Government to establish a coordinating body. We have reached a compromise amendment with the groups supporting the Government, and what we have agreed is that the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to set up on a permanent basis the MICE inter-institutional coordination committee on tourism within the Tourism Bureau, consisting of the out-of-town deputies, the municipalities of the three capitals and a representative of the regional development agencies of each historical territory, for the analysis, establishment and evaluation of criteria for the development of MICE tourism in Euskadi. We believe that it is very important, and this is reflected in the law itself, and that it should have been reflected in the law, because it was made amendments, but it was not possible, and today we are presenting this initiative and we have reached this agreement. I am not going to insist any more, because I believe that the debate on the Tourism Act was very profound and there are all the criteria, and what we do is simply shape something that in the law itself was reflected as an intention, and today what we do is formalize that intention. Nothing more. Many thanks to the groups for their support, and I hope that the other groups that did not make amendments will also support this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u61	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. It's the turn of the teams that's running the corrections. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u62	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning. I will be brief, because, as the proposer of the initiative has said, I believe that the important thing to highlight today is the agreement we have reached. And, therefore, all I have left is to celebrate the compromise that we have reached, an agreement that will be beneficial for the three Basque territories, that will be important for the capitals of Euskadi, but it will also be important for many peoples and regions that are around those capitals and that will have a more, at least, opportunity to establish in a coordinated way criteria for the establishment and development of MICE tourism. MICE tourism is the so-called tourism of congresses, business, meetings, events..., and it is a tourism sector for which many cities in the world, many cities in Europe as well. Because it is not only important for the city or the place where this event or congress is held, but it is also important for the tourist sector of that city, but also for the development of services such as hospitality in the surrounding areas, and even not only in the regions, but also in the territories, as might be the case in Euskadi. We have met in past times with a certain – let's call it this – discrimination, or better imbalance (I think the best used term is that of imbalance ), which was also pointed out by various studies (some who carried out the City Council of Donostia-San Sebastián), and this caused in some territories, at least in Gipuzkoa, that the General Councils of Gipuzkoa there by June 2016 made a pronouncement pointing out the need for this inter-institutional coordinating body to establish a series of criteria of common agreement between the territories, so that there could be a balanced distribution of congresses in the regions, in the cities and, as I say, in the territories. And that proposal, which was approved by all the political groups of the Gipuzkoa General Councils with the exception of the Basque Nationalist Party, was brought here in the form of an amendment by the Socialist Group in the last parliamentary term, as Mrs López de Ocariz said, to the thread of the debate on the current Tourism Act. And at that time the socialists did not have the fortune to understand us, or to understand how important it was to establish an inter-institutional coordinating body in the Tourism Act itself, reflecting the need for a harmonious distribution of congresses, meetings and events held in our cities and towns. And therefore that was not possible. But today, thanks to the initiative of Mrs López de Ocariz, thanks also to the fact that the current law does not have a year of life, and therefore it did not seem most appropriate or sensible to establish an amendment to the current law, we understand among the groups that we are presenting the amendment that it was much more feasible to use the current Tourism Bureau – an advisory body also of the Government for the development of tourism policy – and to take advantage of the fact that, in terms of the decree establishing the Tourism Bureau, the functions of this advisory body included the creation of standing committees to study matters that had to do with or related to tourism. So we believe that this transacted amendment fits well into this advisory body. It is not the greatest aspiration that the Basque Socialists had at the time, but it is true that it is taking a step further, and we also believe that it will promote the fact that there are consensual criteria, agreed criteria between agents who are very interested in the development of tourism of congresses and events in Euskadi, such as the municipalities of the three Basque capitals, the outlaws, who also have competence in the field of tourism, and agents who did not appear so far in any of the sections of the Tourism Bureau and who did seem to us to be important, and are the agencies of regional development. Because the tourism sector has a future, the tourism sector is one of those emerging elements that have an important economic impact in Euskadi, important also where all congresses and events are held, and that is why we understood that it was important to fit – and I thank Mrs López de Ocariz for taking into account this need – that regional development agencies also be present in that inter-institutional coordination body, without being institutions themselves. I therefore believe that we have taken a step forward for that harmonious development, for that balanced development of congress tourism in Euskadi. All I have to do is congratulate the groups on having left the first interests in the catera as well. We have tried to make this good for the sector, because the tourism of congresses is not only important for the tourism entrepreneurs with whom the place where the congress or the event, the meeting or the day is to be held, but also has important sectors around them, such as the hospitality sector, the hotel sector, the accommodation sector, and even the transport sector itself (the taxi drivers), which are strengthened by the fact that small, medium or large congresses are held in the cities or in the villages. And, as I say, he also has affections not only for those cities and towns where events are held, but also for the regions and territories. Therefore, it is important that Euskadi see in this way also possible that cities that are part of what the IAC agency establishes as criteria for the promotion of tourism congresses... Right now there are only two capitals that are in that ranking of the world established by the IAC criteria, and they are Bilbao, at number 69, and Donosti, at number 89. Victory-Gasteiz doesn't show up. We believe that these kinds of issues, although these rankings are established with very strict criteria, very restrictive for what are cities of the dimension of Vitoria-Gasteiz..., but we fully understand that with this coordinating body will be able to solve many of these barriers, and certainly Vitoria and other cities on the map of Euskadi will be able to be seen in the future in those rankings and in those important posts where congresses are held, and therefore will also be affected by their momentum and economic development. So, nothing more. Thank you very much, Mrs López de Ocariz, for admitting the transaction, which I believe is important for the development of tourism. Nothing more, and thank you very much. LEHENDAKARIA : Eskerrik asko, Corcuera andea. Eubertarians. The new House of Uribe, your word is yours. URIBE-ETCHEBAR. APALAGED: Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, chief officers, good noon to all. Well, it's true that this tourist detective we know as MICE is very important. As a matter of fact, we don't really have any specific data to find out what weight this Euskade has in our raw product and in the raw product of our tourist trade, but it's clearly that this sector is rising. Well, I think that Mrs Corcuera has explained some characteristics, and correctly, of what MICE tourism is, but, by stressing something, by adding something, it is true that it is a tractor and dynamizing element of urban enclaves with a tourist vocation, by reactivating destinations for their deseasonalizing character. It should also be remembered that the average expenditure of all people attending different congresses is relatively high, which is obviously interesting for that city or region that hosts a congress. Any differential and defining characteristics of MICE in relation to classical tourism? Well, this is cyclical tourism, which obviously depends on the economic situation. We come from a situation of economic crisis, and, of course, it is something that has also been noted in the organisation of congresses, both in number and in the expenditure made. It has a seasonality, and it has a rotation. The congresses, according to experience, are held more in autumn and spring than, for example, in January and in the summer months, although it must also be stressed that all those who attend a certain congress, who are part of MICE tourism, if they are satisfied, then usually go to the same destination, in that case already developing a family tourism and already more leisure. It is estimated, according to some data, that in Euskadi 87% of the people who attend some congress then return to the same destination, Euskadi in this case, I say, in the form of a more leisurely and traditional tourism. It has an obvious economic impact. It has an impact in terms of image also for cities and countries or territories hosting such events. And, well, it is true that there are a number of very important factors when a particular promoter chooses a city or territory when organizing his congress. It's ten o'clock that we're developing a standard of competitive economic and social development, and methodically it's essential and indispensable to accomplish this standard of public business. That's how we did it. We're doing it like that and we're still doing it. However, and even if we don't realize it, we've developed, even in our country, a public society, a public republic, we're developing, and we're going to have to develop, and we're going to have to develop it, because it's essential that we're dealing with the organization scheme of our country. And that is precisely what we have come to approve here, which, as Mrs López de Ocariz said, actually refers to the law passed in the last legislature. And the central aspect of MICE tourism, which we consider with the necessary and binding interinstitutional collaboration, is to develop a global, comprehensive and common strategy to bring together forces and wills, in order to make Euskadi a favourable and conducive environment for the outside world to develop MICE tourism. That is the main objective, that is the basic objective that this inter-agency commission must have. Reference has been made to some reports that have already been discussed and dealt with in the past legislature. The truth is that, well, it is a report, that of Ikei in particular, somewhat partial, something recognized by the authors themselves. I was talking about 6,000 congresses. I don't know if it's really the exact figure, or if actually in the years 2013 and 2014 1,350 were developed. The vast majority of these congresses were promoted by private initiative; therefore, simply, uniquely and exclusively between sixty-seven and five corresponded to events or congresses organized by the Basque Government. Therefore, this inter-institutional committee or this working group within the Bureau of Tourism will serve, I insist, to make an analysis of all that, but above all, which is what we have to focus on, to make Euskadi an attractive offer to host congresses and these kinds of events, which are undoubtedly very beneficial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u63	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. A group that hasn't run any corrections. Together, Poedemus. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u64	Mila esker, Tjeria anderea. Lehendakari jauna, egun on guztioi. Good morning, everyone, and thank you very much, Madam President. The matter before us today is a proposal put forward by the People's Party, which is signed by Mrs López de Ocariz and which is now coming to us in the form of a transacted amendment, with regard to the creation of an interinstitutional coordinating body for tourism, so that there is coordination between the various public administrations in the Basque Country. From Elkarrekin We understand that tourism policy must be a cross-cutting policy, with coordination and inter-institutional work. Continued interaction between different levels of government is essential to promote sustainable and high-quality tourism. We understand the importance of tourism as an economic activity and as a wealth promoter for Euskadi, already accounting for almost 6% of GDP. The boom that tourism has experienced in recent years places it at the centre of the productive system of our autonomous community. However, a tourism law, as you have commented, passed a year ago in a hurry does not reflect, or leaves aside a number of situations and phenomena that occur in Euskadi on a regular basis. Within the tourism sector, we cannot continue to promote quantitative growth based on figures and numbers. We are committed to the development of a qualitative and responsible tourism. We want to point out that the competences of all the activities that revolve around tourism depend on the three administrative levels, and that this coordination proposal comes late, because there are places in Euskadi that are already suffering the consequences of a massive and uncontrolled tourism model. This is the case of the historical helmets of Donosti and Bilbao, where the indiscriminate search for the increase of tourists has meant the disproportionate increase of the rents of the houses and properties of the area. There are large companies that buy whole buildings and rent them exclusively to tourists at deorbited prices. This causes the phenomenon known as gentrification, where the traditional residents, the elderly and the less-income people, who cannot afford these prices, are displaced by tenants with greater economic capacity, and end up leaving neighbourhoods and urban centres. In addition, as the cost of lunches and commercial premises increases, small local trade is also replaced by franchises and large brands. It is curious to see how the streets and avenues of the big tourist cities increasingly resemble each other: the same large commercial areas, the same multinational ones, and not a peak of the small autochthonous and local commerce, which is often managed by the inhabitants and neighbors of the neighborhood themselves. This type of photography lacks the identity and diversity that strengthens and empowers neighborhoods and municipalities. Mass tourism in Euskadi is being imposed, and inaction and lack of inter-institutional coordination cannot continue. We cannot continue to favour and facilitate a tourism model based on the first sector. From our parliamentary group we want to promote a model of tourism management that contributes effectively to the maintenance and protection of cultural and natural heritage in Basque tourist destinations; that the goal is always sustainable development and that the socio-cultural authenticity of each destination and community is promoted; that relations be established with tourism business associations, non-governmental organizations and with local producers and artisans of different destinations. We are, of course, in favour of interinstitutional coordination which recognises and encourages decentralization and whose objective is to end the territorial imbalance, since 80% of tourism is concentrated in the three Basque capitals. But this initiative should have come out a long time ago, and it seems to us insufficient. Coordination with out-of-town and city councils is essential to work on the distribution of tourist flows, which are currently clustered in large cities. It is not a question of expanding the supply, but of diversifying it, so that it has a positive impact on the economy of hundreds of municipalities that make up Euskadi, generating employment and avoiding massifications, public occupations and neighbourhood conflicts, as is already the case in some of our capitals. This past Holy Week we have seen that the lack of diversification of the Basque tourist offer has led to the massification and saturation of some emblematic destinations that are promoted to satiety in Euskadi, such as the Guggenheim Museum and San Juan de Gaztelugatxe. Experts from the University of Deusto, in view of the images of concentration of people at some points and the feeling of fullness of many neighbors and neighbors consulted in the historical centers of the great cities of Euskadi, have concluded that one must be cautious and take measures so that Euskadi does not follow the path of cities such as Barcelona or Venice. They call for the decentralisation of tourism and the promotion of the three territories as a whole, which underpin the signs of Euskadi's identity with regard to the rest of the markets, which do not put pressure on one point, and which we cannot forget that sustainable tourism must bring economic and environmental benefits in the various regions. Despite all this, the Government does not appear to be concerned about establishing mechanisms in this regard. This was made clear recently by the Vice-Advisor of Tourism, Isabel Muela, in her statements, where she assured that Euskadi is far from being a saturated destination, and that the image of massification of tourism in Euskadi is not real. In the same vein they have tabled an amendment to the whole, where the only thing they proposed was to set up a working committee within the Tourism Bureau. From our point of view, it is another of the moves of this Government to postpone and slow down the establishment of an effective tool with the participation of all levels of government. Finally, you have tabled a transacted amendment, but it seems to us insufficient, because it only contemplates MICE tourism, and we understand tourism in a more global way. The Basque tourism sector also experienced an improvement in employment last year, with 98,910 members of Social Security, but this employment is precarious. Many people who work in some tourism-related activity do so with temporary contracts, and under working conditions that frustrate illegality. Tourism brings wealth to the Basque economy, there is no doubt, but generating quality jobs makes a society much richer and more developed. For all that we have said, we are going to abstain from the transatlantic amendment, because we believe that interinstitutional coordination is important to end the territorial imbalance, to prevent the real risk of massification and to diversify supply, giving prominence to all natural environments and cultural communities, but this amendment is incomplete and is late. We don't just want to regulate MICE tourism. We understand tourism as something inclusive and inclusive, that does not exclude anyone, and according to all economies and pockets. In short, to address the challenges that will be presented to us in the coming months, so that in Euskadi tourism is truly sustainable, social and responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u66	Oh, my God! Oh, that's quite a dip, Mrs. Corcuera. Oh, that's a big deal, Mr. Luke Etxebarria. Oh, my God, Mrs. López de Ocariz. That's a big deal you just marked three bands with the transactional you just signed. I imagine that the majority of this House has not followed the debate closely, nor knows the contents, but imagine that the Basque Government, to Lanbide's reform proposal, responds by saying that it is going to fix or open a new office in Barakaldo, and there remains the thing. He is proposed to reform Lanbide: –"We will open an office in Barakaldo". Osakidetza has to be reformed from above: the government's response is to paint an outpatient clinic. This isn't serious! What you just did here is not serious! I don't think you take yourselves seriously. We are talking about a sector that represents 7% of the economy, and we are talking about a proposal, initially, that has absolutely nothing to do with the transactional that you, for reasons of strategy and political tactics, have signed, because the People's Party wants to go out in the picture once again with the government, abandon its marginality and appear to be a certain centrality, and you have signed a transactional that has absolutely nothing to do with the original proposal. The initial proposal does not speak of MICE tourism. The initial proposal speaks, both in its literality and in its justification, of the need to coordinate tourist policies between the different administrations. You know, I'm supposed to tell you today that I'm going to listen to the proposal described by PP because I thought it was reasonable. And it is true that when we did the Tourism Act many things remained undeveloped, many regulations remained undeveloped, which must have been made by so many developments, and by rules of construction, must have been developed and developed even to the touristic public policies founded on that law. And this must have been developed by the law as a frame, but they had to develop to fill up politics with its contents. And besides, even if it's fun, it's true that different de facto administrations develop work, that they have activity in the tourist world, and that it's logical that there's a co-ordination between different administrations. It is logical, and the law said so, so that we are presented with a reasonable proposal between different administrations of the tourist policy and a proposal of co-ordinated co-ordination. And if we were to listen to this, the representative PPcus gave an argument, and the sects supported the government, to see what arguments were given, whether we should co-ordinately co-ordinately and whether it was the way PPP suggested that the organ should be created, or the party that supports the government had another proposal in order to coordinate public tourist policies among the authorities. That's the proposition. Lehenengo, tokiz kanpoko were a zuen zuzenketa. Hemen hitz egiten da politica turisticokoen koordinazioaz eta zuek estantzuten duzue MICE turisticoari buruz hitz egiten? Wave! Or agrotourisms, or hotels, or active tourism, or religious tourism, or tourism... You could have chosen anyone, because it's a partial look. What is important, logically, is that I do not want to take away an apex of importance from MICE tourism, but it is an absolutely partial aspect, which has nothing to do with the overall coordination of tourism policies. And also the proposal that the PNV and the PSOE brought as an amendment part of a previous agreement, that exists and that is public, with the group of EH Bildu within the framework of the support to the Law of Tourism, and is to correct the current imbalances in the distribution of congresses between the different herriads. That agreement was already made, and that was a verbal agreement but made explicit and recognized by the two signatory parties. So, they only commit themselves to doing what was already committed, and in addition to an absolutely partial way, which has nothing to do with it and which does not respond. And, of course, that they accept the transactional the People's Party all it means is that they really want to get out of the picture and they want to approve a proposal. It doesn't matter what it is! So, it's like when you're going to the sale and you're going to get a sweater, but, well, you come back with a pair of socks. Anyway, something's in the bag for the house. Something's in the bag, it's really nothing. Because above all the transactional that you have signed worsens the terms of the agreement that was established to regulate MICE tourism. Why? Because what they propose is that within the Tourism Bureau an interinstitutional committee is created, and that means that the non-institutional agents of the Tourism Bureau, of this table, are left out. Is there going to be an interinstitutional table for the distribution of MICE tourism and another global table, not just an interinstitutional table? How many tables do you want to do for something as simple as looking for a balanced formula to distribute MICE tourism without discrimination among the different herriads of this country? I think we should take things a little more seriously. And perhaps this is not an issue that raises passions either in the press or in society, but it is an important issue, because there are thousands and thousands of jobs behind, and there are, as I said earlier, 7% of the gross domestic product that depends on tourism. And it is true – and in that I agree with things mentioned above – that tourism has enormous potential. Tourism, if it responds to the model established in the Tourism Act, can bring great benefits. But tourism in an uncontrolled way, in this country and in any other country, can also create problems: problems of massification, of affection for the natural environment, of territorial imbalances, of job insecurity... These problems must be addressed, and these problems must be addressed among all the institutions which have competence or are active in the field of tourism. And for that to happen, we have to coordinate, so that we all go to one, a model that is theoretically unanimously accepted and established in the Tourism Act last year, that is a model of sustainable tourism, that maximizes the benefits that can be obtained from tourism (because tourism, in fact, can offer benefits in terms of economic or job generation, as well as cultural and other), and that at the same time minimizes the harm that can be generated by uncontrolled tourism. And we can talk, for example, about the debate that is taking place these days in Donostia with the theme of tourist flats, which was precisely one of the realities to which I wanted to respond and to which the Tourism Act presents instruments to respond. But these instruments now have to be filled with content, they have to be developed with concrete policies between different administrations. But you don't seem to care about that. They care what the photo of the deals is going to be, who gets out, who doesn't get out, and point ball, as my partner would say. So, that's why I'm saying you just marked a monument to the purpose here. I understand that it went from that meltdown between the PP and the PNV to a romance, and then it ended in something even more torrid, and now it gives the impression that the PP wants to sign anything, unconditionally, with the Basque Nationalist Party, with the government, to get out in the picture. But I really believe that these frivolities are not welcome, that they could have put the bar a little higher, that they could have responded to today's theme, that it is serious enough to deserve from the groups, and more than a few groups that are supporting a government, an adequate response and that makes reference to a problem that is real. Yo lo lamento, ya digo, que al fine abamos una circumta bronca, cuando realmente came to hear me. I was about to listen to him because we had a reasonable proposal on the table, and he answered the real necessity, or at least put it on the table. And we wanted to know if this government really wanted to create an organ for co-ordination between the administrations, or if we all agreed to organize that function in a different way. The party that supported the PP and the government was to listen to us. And we don't like to tell the government how to organize itself. And you'll say, "Yes, you made proposals sometimes." Sometimes, it is true, it has a political significance. If a misdemeanor is made to distribute employment and work, that's what we accuse. Or if a sector like a host is forgotten, we'll either ask him or protect him when another party asks for mercy. or when the higher numbers are multiplied, not in order to answer their wants, but in order to answer the division of the parties, then in these cases we accuse the organization of the government. But, in itself, we must leave the choice of government with a flexibility, in order that it may say, a necessary function, the co-ordination of the administration, the means of doing it. Then what might have been an interesting discussion is left to nothing. He's out of nowhere. And I think the opportunity has been lost to encourage a bearable tourist and a useful tourism from this Chamber. And unfortunately, we're talking about a very partial aspect of interintinental coordinates, which, moreover, has already turned away from what was already agreed and has been mistaken. So, what I said was: monumento a la chipuza.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u67	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Passing on to the answers' turn, Mrs. lópez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, I thought that I was not going to have to intervene at this time, but there are facts that require it. And you believe the thief that everyone is of his condition, don't you? Well, that's where we're at. Because we could have had a magnificent Tourism Law, and we don't have it. Why? Because someone from Bildu, Mr. Casanova, was very urgent to take a picture next to the PNV, and then, among many others, rejected many amendments that substantially improved the law. And among the amendments was an inter-institutional coordination body, which you voted against. If you had voted in favour of that amendment, we would not be here today. Therefore, the cause of having a bad law is you primarily. That's right, that's the reality. And all those deficits that you have mentioned are the cause of your haste, and of your subjection to some issues raised by the Government's bill. So if we didn't get a better law – which could have been, because there were limbs, because there were amendments, because there was room to improve it – it was because you didn't want to. Now what's wrong with him? What's the matter with him now? What's next with the horn attack? Is it still? He's got a problem! Make him look at it, really. And I think we're not here for personal matters, we're here for general matters. That's what we're working for. We've made progress. What wasn't in the law we're going to do, and we're going to move on. To you it will seem little, to the spokesman of Podemos also seems little, but we will go to work in positive steps. And personal matters, then, for other moments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u70	Thank you, President. Mr. Casanova, you don't offend who you want, you offend who you can. You have come to this rostrum to indicate that what we have done is a chaff. Look, chapuza is not presenting any alternative to a proposal, and then coming here to spoil everything that's put in front of it. That's a big deal! That's not working properly. And I understand that you may be upset, because you did indeed agree with the Basque Nationalist Party on the current Tourism Act. You agreed to it. Then he wanted to amend his conscience and came to say that, in the end, it had been a lot of haste, that everything had been very accelerated, a small ear-drop to the Vice-Advisor of Tourism, that we all had the honor to see in that commission..., but here peace and then glory. And of those dusts these muds. Because you know very well that we Socialists tabled in committee at the time and then in plenary we maintained the amendment to create the interinstitutional body. Because we really believed that coordination, territorial cohesion in the area of MICE tourism was necessary, and you have to be aware that it was important for us that this interinstitutional coordination body be present, and you prevented it. You with your vow prevented it, prevented it from being in the law. You prevented it, because you agreed, it says, verbally. Of course, it's that you deal verbally and agree in the previous legislature, but you agree a law that then you have to see it in this one. But what was said verbally, Mr Casanova, does not appear today in the Tourism Act. He doesn't show up. And if you agreed with the PNV, ask the PNV to account, but don't ask the Socialist Party. Of course, don't ask me. You didn't deal with me at all. I remind you that we had a critical position with the Tourism Act, and we made critical support for that law. Therefore, the proposal brought by the People's Party today by the Socialists understood it as coherent and came to the forefront of the possibility of creating such an inter-institutional body, because these imbalances had occurred. These territorial imbalances had occurred in the organization of events, congresses between the territories. And you need to know that at the Gipuzkoa General Councils on June 8, 2016, Bildu also adopted a resolution calling for the establishment of an inter-agency coordinating body for the holding of congresses and events. If you were not faithful to your own by bringing here and agreeing with the Basque Nationalist Party that this inter-institutional body should not appear in the Tourism Act, we are not the socialists, Mr Casanova. It's you. It's you! You ignored the study that Bildu commissioned at the City Hall of San Sebastián when the mayor of the city was of Bildu, when the town hall of San Sebastián was in the hands of Bildu. So I understand that you have to do a pose here, come angry and come and say, "Jo!, let's go chubby." No, Mr. Casanova. Chapuza yours for the work you did with the Tourism Act. For the work you did. Do I remind you of how many amendments you have tabled? A lot? And then he got what? What? In coordination with the sector? No, no, No, no, The pact was invented with the Basque Nationalist Party, without contrasting with the sector whether or not it agreed with the amendments that you had agreed to. You, who were for participation. But look, Mrs García, the Basque Government in the field of tourism has something to do with the creation of the strategic plan and the master plan for tourism. And the counselor said at the time... (I didn't see him, forgive him) in the committee, in the appearance that took place, that he was going to try to make that master plan really stick..., and the goal was a sustainable development of tourism in Euskadi. So that's important, it's there, and that's a commitment from the advisor and the Basque Government. But it is also in MICE tourism that what is intended... and what also promotes this tourism of congresses is deseasonalization, which avoids, let's say, saturation of tourist destinations. I therefore believe that both issues are not incompatible. Above all to reassure him as far as possible, because it is also the objective of the Basque Socialists that there is no saturation in the destinations, at least to avoid it, to put the means and put the tools and instruments for it. Therefore, I believe that what we are taking forward today will benefit cities..., not only the capitals, but many cities that today have means and have establishments where to host those events, those congresses. It's not just the three capitals. There are many cities around these capitals that also have, let's say, the tools to host and, therefore, also to be impacted by the economic impact that congress tourism promotes and provokes where events are held. And, therefore, I believe that the proposal, at least in our way of understanding, is sustainable, possible, and solves and eliminates the sensitivities that have so far been given among the historic territories of Euskadi. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Mr. Uribe Househouse, your word is yours. URIBE-ETCHEBAR. APALAGED: Thank you, ma'am. Well, Mrs. García, I must simply say that we do not share at all that catastrophic view you have of the tourism and the reality of tourism that exists today in Euskadi. This Government, as the Councillor has reiterated on more than one occasion at this very headquarters, is working and will continue to work for sustainable tourism, and I believe that proof of all this will be all the documents, etc., which Mrs Corcuera has announced and which will be conceived, drafted and developed by the Basque Government. Casanova jauna, "lack of seriousness", "chapuza", eta (zer esan duzu?)... , bai, "frivolity," to the extent that we're looking for a photo. Well, try to apply the story to your attitudes, because I would ask for seriousness, lack of coddling and less frivolity when reading the decree of creation of the 2015 Tourism Bureau. Let him read it, and then from there I think he'll be cleared up a lot. The Tourism Bureau is a body for cooperation, coordination and joint work between the private and public sectors in the field of tourism, but the same decree provides for the possibility of creating permanent working groups. And it is one of those that has indeed been set up to deal with MICE tourism in this case, without excluding that the table itself deals with tourism policy in general, in the same way that there is a working group on tourist apartments. And what is decided in the working groups, in this case the MICE working group, has to be endorsed by the plenary of the Tourism Bureau, where the private sector is also. Read the Decret of the Tourism Table, and, as I told you, I think you'll find many doubts about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u72	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. Together, Poedemus. Mrs. Garcia... Yes, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u73	Eskerrik asko. Very briefly, two issues. In the exchange of spring love between several groups we are not going to enter, but, with regard to the statements of the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party, I would like to emphasize that it has nothing more to do with the media to see that there are architects and urbanists who talk about what I have spoken about and who have the same vision, not catastrophic, but real. Sometimes we live in a parallel dimension because we are interested. And, Mrs Corcuera, we – we already told Mr Retortillo at the time – are ready to work for sustainable tourism, and we are also willing to work from inter-institutional coordination for all tourism, not only for tourism that focuses on businesses, however much that means not saturation of other spaces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u75	Uribe-Etxebarria jauna, irakur ezazu zuk ere, irakur ezazu sinatu duzuen erdibidekoa: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to set up on a permanent basis the interinstitutional coordination committee on tourism MICE". Yeah, in the Turism Table, but the interinsitational commission. This is not to say that at table things that are not to be discussed, but in this specific work there will only be institutions, and have no opportunity of taking any part in them; but they are not in this work, and that is what I have said. The institutions, then, are, but the latter in a second stage, and not directly. It may be a matter of form, but it was a first plan, first of all, that neither institutions could have their voices and their voices ringing around the turbism of MICE. And, logically... Well, I haven't been answered to anything I've said before, because it's hard to answer because it's unappealable. That is to say, if a proposal is put forward on interinstitutional coordination in the field of tourism and a compromise is approved which has absolutely nothing to do with it, then it is clear that the largest one cannot enter. You have to go into personal disqualification or disqualification of the Tourism Act, of things that have happened... Things that aren't the ones we're discussing today. Because about the things we're discussing today it's pretty obvious what happened: that an interesting proposal was brought in and, I told them, I was willing to listen without sectarianism, I don't care if I bring the proposal the PP, the PNV or any other party (as is usually said, or as Machado wrote, "Truth is the truth, says Agamenón or his scumbag")... And if the PNV comes here, or the PP comes here to bring a good proposal, we'd come to hear them. And if the government, or the parties that support the government, had to make a counterproposal, we would also come to hear it, without sectarianism, without having to go out in a photo. Some will need to hold on to certain trees in order to give them shade; others have a project strong enough to know when we want to sign and when we do not, depending on whether there is political agreement or no political agreement. Others, perhaps like bulls when they are already dying, look for the boards and seek the shelter of the mother party, although perhaps for some and some it is the hug of the bear. We have come and tried to talk about institutional coordination for tourism. We couldn't do it. You've thrown a smokescreen, and still on top, when you've been put on the table that evidence, you've responded with ad hominem attacks and talking about past issues. Past issues..., which I finally want to tell you, Mrs. Corcuera, that we already know that your group tried to sabotage the Tourism Act. We know. He tried to prevent that law from coming forward. And he tried to do so not because they were against it, but because they then wanted to accuse the government of having poor legislative production. And you did it knowing that you were contradicting the unanimous position of the tourism sector. As an active and passive tourism sector, both outside this Parliament and in this House in the appearances you also attended and listened to, you strongly urged us to adopt this Tourism Act, and to put aside partisan struggles in order to give tourism an instrument that they considered essential to meet urgent realities. And in that sense, and not because of any particular need from me or Euskal Herria Bildu, but in order to respond to a unanimous demand from the tourism sector, it is for this reason that we try to speed up the deadlines and accept that the deadlines of the law should be speeded up. And we have introduced very important improvements to strengthen a tourism model of our own in this country, including the defence of workers' rights, which you too have forgotten to mention in that law. If you are against the Tourism Act, plant it with your government colleagues. Plant it for your fellow government officials. If you think it's a bad instrument – it's what you've come to understand –, propose to the Basque Nationalist Party that the government introduce a new law, or propose it to your advisor. And if the law is not evil, and if the law is good, all that you have said in reference to the law is enough. And of course, Euskal Herria Bildu wants a balanced distribution of congresses. That is a problem that would technically be resolved if the words given were fulfilled. And it makes no sense that in the area of the discussion of global coordination of tourism policies one aspect that is important but partial is aborted. It is as if the request for coordination raises an improvement in the situation of rural tourism, or agrotourism, or active tourism, which can be very important, I do not deny the importance of this issue, but it is an absolutely partial aspect, which they have used to hide and not give the global debate, which was intended to bring, although the proposing group did not want to give it at the end. I keep saying, it is frivolous that, in the face of an economic sector of social importance, of spatial planning, of all the characteristics that we are talking about tourism, we do not face the debates as they should be faced with and we are looking for other types of components that are not related to this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u76	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. The debate is over, and we'll vote for the popular Euscala team, the Basque Socialists, and the middle-line correction that the Eunciators have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 72; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 46; the opponents are 17; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u77	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Five point in theme list: "Provide the other bill as a parlamentary team, concerning the neglect of domestic workers who have taken care of themselves or reduced their labours. Discipline and final resolution. It's the caller's turn. Mrs. Houseowner, the representative of the EH Group, has the word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u78	Thank you. Good noon to all and especially to the members of the staff community of the House of Biscay. Thank you for being here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u79	Silence, please...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u80	This time, we'll be talking about quitting the household employees who have taken care of themselves or reduced their job. This was one of the first initiatives which I proposed as soon as I arrived at the legislature, and which was the reason why I did not yet know too much of the working of this house, but, above all, I told my colleagues and the former members of the legislature to know their opinion, because at that time I feared the words 'full correction' and thought it was very hard to do anything in the face of it. I've got one of those e-mails of the times, and he says: "Podemus has introduced nothing, probably because they agree with us." And the guy who wrote me that email was absolutely right. That's why I'd like to thank the members of Podomos, Mr. Hernandez, to protect him and his party to defend this also in defence of the rights of the workers of the house, and present another proposition first. The e-mail went on: "Pren text protects ours, but with other words. It would be a matter of agreeing to a half-way text with PP. And yes, that's what I thought until yesterday, but we've seen that even the way to find a middle-way was impossible, there was no feedback. Yes, however, with EAJ and PSE, and though at last each of them has not been able to obtain a middle course, I wish to thank the same experiment. Why have we decided to keep our initial proposal? Because we are in the presence of a terrible injustice, in the presence of a constant violation of rights, and above all because it affects a very high sector of women. And that's why you keep the situation as it keeps going. It is a shameful disposition to abandon itself at once. Why? Because the work is a very serious example, and this point of decree about the friends of the family for their union. In it, the workers of the house are expressly excluded from the readiness for workers who have taken care of themselves or reduced their work. The other workmen, all the other workmen, have a chance of receiving them, except for the servants of the house. 14.3.) "When wee look at the Article," he saith in words: "A text of the Common-wealth of the State of Workers is not paid for by the workers who have special intercourse in Section 2.1 of the Decree King, 24/1995 Laws." And if we play that part, who will we find? We may hope to meet a small list, but no, there are only domestic workers, las del servicio de hogarar. No one else. How can we accept a disposition which excludes a particular collective, especially, and excludes it from right? Why do we have to investigate what influence this is going to have? We have so many ideas of life-testigations produced. Oh. Mrs. Romero's experiences received the news in a report about the house-workers. He said: "I've been in the Basque Country for three years, and I came from Honduras, where I was almost a year in a House of Bilbon. It was a terrible experience. I was collecting 700 euros a month, working seven days a week, free only two hours a day, and I got sick. "I had to go to the hospital twice. This second time was the last. Three days later, my landlady told me she'd fire me. He killed me. He asked me why and said he needed someone to look after him, that I had just been sick twice and that he needed someone in shape." It may be the punishment or contempt of the counterman's attitude, the first thing that comes to us, the first idea of the first moment, but if he needs someone to look after him in the day, who is responsible for it? The government that used "person goal" doesn't matter? I hope the government doesn't care. What person do we have? I'd like to bring back the metaphor for that blackmail worker we've been talking about here more than once. That's the person we're aiming for, who can live on his own, on his own, on any kind of care, without any completion, who doesn't need to eat, who doesn't need to sleep, who doesn't need love, who doesn't have to socialize... But that worker doesn't exist, that person doesn't exist. And our personal care to satisfy all these wants is also collective and public. And by our laws, we cannot tame these men, and what we have here, what we have in this law, is a clear and clear neglect. That's why we keep our proposal, and that's why we're grateful to Podemos's attitude, and that's why, in that medium where the government's going to get out, we're not going to fight this investigation because we've been protecting it in its own time. But why do we do this research in this case? Are we going to put a price on the Economically commit? Shall we look at what's profitable? We can't give a price to people who care or rights. Like I said, it's a clever discrimination and we need to get rid of it right away. Therefore we will vote against this proposition, because it is immediate to suspend what this measure demands. What else is there to follow this discrimination? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Passing the crews who were running the corrections, representing the Basque Potion Group. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Egun where you're going. Well, this initiative deals with two different aspects, and I am going to refer to both of them. On the one hand we find the reconciliation of work and family life, and what we can do from the institutions, in our case from the Basque Government, to promote and guarantee it. And, on the other hand, also, in this initiative we are going to talk about the situation of domestic workers and the difficulty... well, the impediment to access these aids. Indeed, as has been said here, it is Decrees 177/2010 and 31/2015 that regulate aid for the reconciliation of working and family life, aid aimed at compensating for the decrease in income that may arise from such reconciliation. Aids that perform a double function. On the one hand, those who have children or older persons in their care can benefit from a reduction in working hours or can have other people who can help them, and for that they can have benefits for their recruitment. So that they can carry out this, and also, on the other hand – because the majority of those who receive this aid are women – because we are also talking about equality, about achieving equality. Equal opportunities for women, for those who have a working life but who at the same time want to make it compatible with family care or motherhood, and who can do so with the help and impulse of the institutions. That is to say, this is the twofold objective of this aid, which was unanimously adopted in this Parliament in 2008, in the Family Support Act. It was Bildu's initiative in its operative part that any Euskadi worker can benefit from this aid, and it must be said that no, which is not the case, can be accepted on the basis of budgetary resources. This is not a heading..., it is not a subjective right, but depending on the budgetary availability the workers can be welcomed or not. With regard to these aids, we would like to recall, taking advantage of this debate, that from our group we have insisted that today there are families who are left without aid because the money does not come, and that therefore it would be logical to change the system: to recognise it as a subjective right, and to ensure that all those who want to have access to the reconciliation of working and family life, who can plan their working life on the basis of these benefits, because they are allowed to do so; that the way in which these aids or benefits are regulated is allowed to do so. Because I believe that, indeed, it is a way of contributing also to the equality of women. And with regard to the group we are talking about in this initiative, it is clearer whether it is possible, as I said earlier, that most of this group of domestic workers are women, and therefore the means must be put in place to ensure that they have equal access to these aids on an equal footing and that they have equal opportunities. Indeed, it is true that this decree shows that those in special regimes are expressly excluded. The debate on the situation of female domestic workers has already taken place in February this year, and we have highlighted issues that we want to reiterate here today. We share with the proposing group – we said it there, and today we confirm it – the precarious situation in which this collective finds itself on many occasions, the problems it has to face. Problems such as the need to bring out that submerged economy that still exists, and to a large extent, in this sector; the need for the mediation of Lanbide, spreading between workers and employers the respective rights and obligations that each one has... And there was a compromise amendment which expressly reflected this need to make a diagnosis of the situation, and it was also requested that, through Osalan, and by coordinating all the areas and departments of the Basque Government involved in the matter, a study should be prepared to define the dimension of the problem and to compile the steps that had been taken to date and, in addition, what measures could be taken from the various actions. Therefore, within that study and through that work of Osalan you can and must pick up what is the substance of this initiative, which I share, which is why the initial amendment was in one sense and the objective of that amendment I fully share. What happens is that – which is why I sign this compromise amendment –... what I intend that this Osalan study tells me is whether with the annulment of those two articles of those two decrees they will already have the right to access these benefits the domestic workers, or will not serve, because being a special regime will not serve. In which case, what should be done is perhaps not to repeal this article, but to establish a different formula so that women domestic workers – which I refer to as women because they are almost all women – can access these aids. Not because of the economic cost, I am not considering the economic cost at all, but a possible measure. A possible measure, in such a way that – because it is true, and I share it, it is discrimination – with the measures that can be made and that are legally possible can cease to exist this discrimination, and that women domestic workers, where appropriate, can access this type of benefit when they are in situations where they have other workers, of a request for leave, as I said, or of a reduction in hours for the care of their children or the care of their elders, and that in this way this discrimination that currently exists ceases to exist. That is the meaning, I believe, of this amendment: to see what non-economic effects, but legal effects, would have this derogation; if that derogation were to achieve the objective that I believe we all share that must be achieved, and if it is not, the formulas will be put forward and the measures taken as a result of that analysis will be taken. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u83	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u84	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good morning to all. Go ahead, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we share our diagnosis and concern with the proposing group. We believe that it is essential to protect and guarantee the labour and social security rights of almost 600,000 people who, according to the EPA, are currently working in the home. A group composed of more than 90% women, 50% of whom are immigrants. Workers who often work in precarious, very difficult conditions, with an absolute lack of social protection. A collective that for decades has suffered the inequality resulting from widespread and widespread fraud, tolerated, unfortunately, with absolute naturality by a society that saw as normal to have a domestic employee without any contract. That is why it was the Socialists, back in 2011, who from the government passed legislation that made history, forcing employers to discharge those who worked at home, regardless of the length of their working hours. Legislation that guaranteed the labour and social protection rights of domestic workers, dignified their working conditions and in some way formalizing, legalizing what until then was synonymous with precarious work and under some conditions of extreme illegality. Regrettably, the Government of Spain has taken a step back, and today we are still not ratifying Convention 189 and ILO Resolution 201, an organization to which Spain belongs but whose resolutions and conventions seem not yet to want to assume the Government of the State. I hope that these conventions will be ratified in this country as soon as possible. Returning to the central thread of the issue before us, I acknowledge the goodwill of the proposer group in its request to repeal article 14.3 of Decree 177/2010, as well as article 4.3 of Decree 31/2015, which would exclude domestic staff from benefiting from an exemption or request a review of their working hours. And, as I said at first, I can share the goal, because I understand that it would be justice and normal. I therefore share the objective, I express the will of the Socialist Parliamentary Group to continue working towards the objective, but I understand that within its proposal, there are a number of questions that can lead us to doubt. Doubts as to the effectiveness of the derogation they propose, as long as domestic staff are covered by a special regime in which this hypothetical derogation is probably very much feared that it would not have the desired effect or the effect that we want to achieve. Let us therefore be or try to be more practical, and let us address this more comprehensively. On 2 February this same plenary unanimously adopted a non-legislative proposal urging Osalan to prepare a comprehensive study on the situation of female domestic workers in our community. A study that I know is already being prepared, that is already being worked on, and that will allow us to know in more detail, with breadth and, as I said, in detail, what is the real situation that these workers have at the moment. Therefore, from the Socialist Group we believe that it is far more effective than the question that brings us back today also has its specific section in that study, and it values not only the consequences of the derogation that you propose to us, but also the way and measures to be put in place in order to be able to equate the working conditions of domestic workers with other comparable ones, which are already reflected in the general system. In other words, not only precisely on this issue, but globally. We will try to ensure that, despite the fact that these workers are placed under a special scheme, that at least that special scheme can be equal to the conditions, the benefits that workers in the general scheme have. Therefore, once we have the results of that study and the proposed averages, we will all immediately get to work on improving working conditions and achieving, as I said, full equality in the working conditions of women workers and domestic workers, which is at least one objective that I believe we all share today in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u85	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Akiancia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u86	Thank you, ma'am. Chief department, congressmen, good noon to everyone. Mrs Etxebarrieta brings us this non-legislative proposal, but before entering the core of the issue I would like to refer, as has been done before, to that previous plenary debate on 2 February, at the initiative of Elkarrekin Podemos, on guarantees of the rights of domestic workers. We made a qualification on this issue, on the work of these people, a clear qualification at that time: it seems to us an indispensable job for our society, but at the same time it seems to us that it is undervalued and is invisible on many occasions. I believe that in that debate we see a common goal in the whole of the groups. We note this impulse to increase the assessment of the household workers' collective and their visibility, and in the area of guaranteeing rights, to increase their occupational safety and health. I will not further develop the issue that Mrs Llanos has already developed in relation to the agreement and the parties to the agreement. In any case, a shared goal that day, and I would like to underline the qualification of this agreement from our parliamentary group: very ambitious, in defence of the rights of women domestic workers, in our view. Today you bring us, Mrs Etxebarrieta, another question, an issue also related to this collective, although it is earlier, is recorded prior to the question raised by Elkarrekin Podemos. As you say, it refers to the exclusion of this group from certain benefits, and in particular to the exclusion, in your opinion, which is reflected in articles 14.3 of Decree 177/2010 and 4.3 of Decree 31/2015. And you, in order to overcome this issue, ask us – and you say so – to immediately suspend (i.e., I intend to repeal) these articles. That's what they're asking. I do not deny his goodwill, but we are going to be very critical with this GNP, with this non-legislative proposal. Why? Because you confuse exclusion with signal, with indication. In what way? And let me, you've put a metaphor; I'm going to put a simile on it. You go down a road and you find that this road is cut off by a great detachment, and it is announced by a sign. What you put to us here is the following: "Remove the signal, there is no longer the problem." That is what you are asking us: you have solved the problem. The reality is not so, Mrs Etxebarrieta. The road will continue to be cut, and the detachment, as long as we don't work on it, will continue there. And why am I telling you this? Because what needs to be done is to analyze the whole normative reality, not just those two articles. The suspension of these two articles does not mean any progress. It doesn't mean any progress. Why? Because the exclusion to which you refer is not in them. Read them right through to the end. Exclusion is not in them. Where's the exclusion? Exclusion, to understand exclusion, has to take two steps back and leave a little before 2012. Prior to 2012, the collective was part of the Special Social Security Regime – it was said – of Homeworkers, or they called it that. State law 27/2011 has an additional provision, 39, which states that with effect from January 2012, this special social security scheme will be integrated into the general social security scheme. Apparently, if we stop reading that provision there, we would find that we are in the presence of workers on behalf of others, but the provision does not end there, because what it says is that it is integrated through a special system. A special system which does not entirely correspond to that of employed persons. For example, in large areas they differ: the scope of temporary disability, for example; the scope of the calculation of the regulatory base, for example; the scope of unemployment, for example. In addition to this issue of social security regulation, the labour relations of domestic workers are conceived as special labour relations. It is labour law, legislation exclusive competence of the State. Changing the special employment relationship and moving it towards the regulation of workers on behalf of others is a competence of the State. In addition to these two issues, related to social security and labour relations, we find multiple realities addressing issues such as the provision of services, how services are provided, how services are provided by female domestic workers, whether partially or not, continuous or discontinuous, providing it to one or more employers... There's the question, there's what you say about exclusion. Not on the signal, not on the articles. By removing the signal you will be able to get a nice headline tomorrow, sure you will, sure you could get a nice headline tomorrow, but I wonder: do you get anything in defense of the rights of domestic workers? I am advancing this answer: nothing. Nothing. I'm going further: less than nothing. Less than nothing, because I get the same as in the simile. If you remove the signal creates a danger situation; in this case, what would you create? It would create – read the rules – a false expectation. This is called irresponsibility, Mrs Etxebarrieta. What do we propose? Mr Andueza has already explained this: integrating this issue into that agreement, since it is not a question of social benefits, it is a question of labour regulation. In addition, the 2 February agreement is designed for this inclusion, allowing for this inclusion, and this inclusion would substantially improve that agreement, without any doubt. That is why I would encourage you to vote in favour of the text we have had. In fact, I understand that we cannot refuse to vote on this text. Mrs. Etxebarrieta, do us a favor, don't go around irresponsibly removing signals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u87	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. A group that hasn't run any corrections together Podemos. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u88	Good morning. First of all, I mean... Well, it's been said. Of course from our group, from our coalition, we decided in its day not even to amend the initiative, in the first place because it is an initiative that comes from the workers themselves in the sector, who are the first interested and who have also made it known to us, both through the Association of Homeworkers of Bizkaia and through several unions, that this is one of their demands. And, therefore, we first support her for that. And secondly, because it also seems fair and feasible to us. That is why we decided not to even amend it, at the risk of staying slightly out of the debate, because we felt it was very important that the initiative should be approved and that no attempt should be made to play political game with it. I do not know whether it is necessary to repeat the precarious characteristics of the sector to which we are referring, but briefly I am going to do so, because it is a sector in which women workers suffer from precariousness, first of all because of the very characteristics of the work they do, but also because of this special condition which has been discussed here, which means that, among other things, guardianship or supervision over their working conditions is not the same as that which can be done or done over other sectors of workers. This is also a fact which they have already denounced in this House on previous occasions, and which has not been resolved either. Despite some slow progress in working conditions in this sector, there have also been setbacks, and some have been indicated. Among them, the one who carried out the People's Party in 2012, and I am not going to extend because it is also talked about here. In our approach, we believe that this initiative simply needs to be adopted because it is about wage earners, and as such we believe that they should have the same rights as the rest of the wage earners, regardless of whether or not their work generates surplus value and, ultimately, whether these jobs belong to the reproductive or productive part of the system. Because that is surely the root of the underlying problem: a capitalist system in which reproductive work plays a subsidiary role in relation to productive work, and a patriarchal system that assigns women the role of performing such work. The women's dedication to reproduction work in our opinion is not a biological issue, but is the result of a social construction that increases gender differences and turns women into subjects primarily oriented to reproduction work, and men primarily focused on production work. That is why we think that reproductive work deserves to be valued and quantified, and that is why, regardless of whether the employer is a company or an individual, regardless of whether the work they do belongs to the productive or reproductive system, these workers who work, and who work under a contract of employment, must have the same rights as the rest of the workers. They are workers and workers, and they must have the same rights, in matters directly related to labour rights, to which Mr Aiartza has referred (labour legislation, which is indeed not our competence), but also in matters relating to workers' aid. And that's what we're talking about. That is what we are talking about, because the proposal is talking about aid given by the Basque Government to women workers. That is the proposal, and that is the competence of this Parliament. This time it's not worth throwing balls out, it's not worth blaming Madrid. We share the issue of ILO recommendations, which is the amendment tabled by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party, and you know that. We share it in this House I believe that almost all but the People's Party, I understand, has not carried it out in the Madrid Government. In fact, it is one of the first things that our group in Congress, United We can, in addition through a Basque parliamentarian, my colleague Isabel Salud, did in this legislature, to present a GNP to urge the Government to do this, to comply with these ILO recommendations. But you have presented this in order to divert attention, so that we do not debate the issue that the proposing group was bringing to the House, and I understand that because the government through you, the groups that support it, is not ready at this time to address this issue. We have it very clearly in our group. Because we are not debating labour law issues here. No, no, No, no, We are talking about a decree setting out the aid for workers who are involved in the reconciliation of working and family life, for workers who are involved in this situation; that is labour legislation, but the aid is provided by the Basque Government, and can give it perfectly. And if you can't give it, why do you propose that Osalan do a study? If you can't give it, what study will Osalan do? It's a matter of political will. We think that the reasons why the Government is not willing to move forward on this issue, we understand..., even then I get corrected or the same I miss other reasons, but we think they are economic reasons. We believe that this is a matter of economic priorities, and that the fact that these workers can access these aids is not one of the Government's priorities. That is the only reason why we believe that it may have led the Government to table an amendment that talks about something else, and not to trade with the proposing group what you proposed, which is perfectly compatible with the same initiative as proposed by the EH Bildu group and which, as I said, we intended to support. And there is another issue that we do not understand from my group, and it is that the People's Party, which we had seen that it had made an amendment that was actually very similar to that of EH Bildu, because it has finally negotiated with you, and of what they were proposing there really is nothing left. When, as I say, they were proposing a very, very similar thing to that of the proposing group, and if they had wanted to, they could have reached an agreement too. And, of course, my group, if the content had been that, then I would have supported it. And I'm the first one to reject when he has to vote for things with the People's Party, I have to admit it, but if the content was that, it's the one that the workers are also looking for, because we would have supported it. We are talking about aid given by the Basque Government to workers and those which it has excluded or which is excluded from a specific sector of workers (especially workers, as we have said). And we use the argument, or the excuse, in our opinion, that they are not fully integrated into the General Social Security Regime, because they are actually in the general regime today, but with a special situation. And that, in our view, is just an excuse, because it is an aid given by the Basque Government and can therefore be given perfectly. To me the simile you have used, Mr Aiartza, the truth, I have tried to understand it, and, I don't know, I wasn't the smartest in the class, nor the most zote, but I don't think so. I believe that we are, in any case, facing the entry of a path, which is that of social assistance to women workers to reconcile family life, in which at the entrance there is a sign that puts "You can pass, except domestic workers". I believe that it is the most successful simile, and what the initiative proposes is actually to remove this signal, and that all workers who meet the requirements should be able to access these aids. That is why we, as I said at the beginning, are going to support the initiative, we are going to use our eleven votes in this House to support the initiative, and we are not going to support the amendment you are proposing because we believe it has been used as a smokescreen. We believe that the Government is using you not to address this issue right now, and we think it is a way to buy time and not to address the debate. And we also know that the workers also agree with this position, and that, at least for us, is also of vital importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u89	Thank you, Mr. Hérnandez. Passing by the turn of the answers, represent the EH Group. Madam Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u90	Thank you. To tell you the truth, I come down here again with great grief, because I see in the discourses I have heard, that, except in Mr. Arianz's, we had means to arrive at consent and make a common decision, but we had means, as has been well observed, not to pass by a signal. And honestly, Mr. Aardz, I won't answer you. It seems to me that you send me to read, I don't know how many other things-I really don't have a word. I think the tone has gone on another way, that conversation has gone on another way, and I am astonished at your interference. Well, we have to get used to it. I am very sorry to hear of Miss Llanos and Mr. Alegeza, for you see and share the substance of the diagnosis and of the problem. And, yes, we can agree with that idea you're planning, which said that leaving us what we were planning may not solve the problem as a whole. We share that in 100 per cent, because we know that we meet with a large amount of right and debalization with a mound of spikes. We know this isn't the only one. We got to this because it's a specialized right-bone and a problem that's happening right now, and that's why we got it. But in all the resolutions which this study of ours is about to come, we shall be there, and that we shall continue to work in this way, because we see that it is absolutely necessary, once in two, at four, or ten, to allow it to be brought here. We just wanted to do a little math. In the accounts mentioned by Mr. Urduza, the majority of the workers at the Esquimia of the Esquimia at the present day seem to be foreign to us, though a study made by the Basque Government says that two of them are local from three to three. I think that has a great deal to do with the stereotype we have of our domestic workmen, the stereotype we have of the work. We ourselves, I mean, have been able to fall into it myself, and it is something I have often opened, but the house-workers have shown that it is not. I think it was just a matter of warning. In my tone, as I speak, I repeat: I am going to grief, for I think we might now arrive at the moment at the chance of reaching the situation in which he was living. But we know that this research will be here before it's too late, and we'll wait for those answers to continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Euscal Group Popula representative. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Although I'm going to be brief, I'm going down here because so I can look at them all, and from the seat it's more complicated. Well, I'm going to refer first to Mr Hernandez. From your group on some other occasion they have come to us to reach an agreement on a possible compromise. I understand that, given the rejection that gives you to vote with us or agree with us, if we have a joint initiative, I guess your call will never receive it. I think for stereotypes, yours. But anyway. With regard to Mr Aiartza, it is only true that the issue of the general regime and the special regime are state rules. That's good. But I have said in the previous speech, and I shall now refer to Mrs Etxebarrieta, who, from here too, there are issues that can be raised; that we cannot take only the flag that is state legislation and then we cannot do anything here. In that sense, if they are to cease to be a special regime, it is true that that will have to be decided there, but here, by taking another series of measures or by taking another series of measures, we can achieve that goal equally. I have told you before, Mrs Etxebarrieta: I am totally in favour of the objective to be achieved. It is true that I spoke to Mr Andueza because he sent me an initiative proposal, an amendment, which is true that it had nothing to do with the original, because this was a specific subject and a specific issue and the amendment of the whole that had been proposed at first was more than "taking advantage of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid, let's go to everything". So, this was a much more concrete amendment, and I did say that I could send it, that if I wanted to add something or we could reach an agreement... And I also said, well, I may not sign that agreement, but I was going to vote the same if a broader agreement had been reached. Because, I repeat, I believe that those of us who have drafted the amendment also share that. We agree with the objective. The question is whether we can achieve that goal, that is, whether we can move away from here by saying "Yes, those two articles have been repealed", but with the repeal of those two articles would we end up with discrimination? That's the point. So, what's this about? Getting out of here all delighted but then not going to serve? No! No! The question is whether the repeal of these articles already directly eliminates such discrimination, and, if it does not disappear, whether the formula (through a different amendment, through a different regulation) should be studied, so that domestic workers can also have access to such conciliation aid. And I also went further in my amendment, I said it here, and I will probably put it again in this House. He said that the reconciliation of work and family life, especially in order to fight for equality between men and women, must be a subjective right, cannot always be subject to budgetary availability and that the first one who arrives is the first one who has the right to such assistance. So, in this matter, I wanted to take the two things so that not only domestic workers, but any Basque worker, do not have to present it first so that the money does not run out, and that at any time of the year they can access these aids for the reconciliation of work and family life. That was the goal, and I totally share it with you. And I think it is more possible, even if it is a little longer, but it does have more visions that we can actually achieve it through this amendment that we have signed, rather than otherwise. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u93	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u94	Mrs Etxebarrieta, it is true that it is a pity that we have not been able to reach an agreement. Anyway, I think we've all made an effort, we've tried... in the end it wasn't possible. I think we shared the goal; we didn't share the path. What I do hope is that during this time we will find a path in which to cross, in which to share and reach that goal together. At least I have that hope. And I hope that through the study that Osalan is developing, as I said in my previous speech, we will have a global vision and we will be able to detect gaps and we will also be able to detect ways to solve these problems. Therefore, I think we have time throughout this legislature, hopefully sooner than later, to find ourselves on that path and reach that goal, to that common goal that I believe everyone here shares. To Mr. Hernandez. Finally, you, as soon as you do not share that path, use the mantra that there is no political will. Well, that's not true! There is a political will! Why do you say there is no political will? I was now telling Mrs Etxebarrieta: we share the goal; we do not share the path. There is political will, of course, there is political will, and above all on the part of our party. You cannot blame us for a lack of political will, when it was precisely the Socialist Party in 2011, which allowed employers to be forced to make a contract for all domestic workers, regardless of the hours they worked. Anyway, I think we've always had that commitment, and we're going to keep it. And it seems to me very good that you come here to give us a doctrinal speech, and that doctrinal speech repeats it to us three times, because, among other things, I can share it with you. But what do you want me to say? Start by your home, that there is some domestic worker in Aragon who had to wait a little while to have some contract at the home of some partner of his party. Well, well, let's start there! Finally, that doctrine is very good, that speech is very good, but then here the movement is shown walking and is demonstrated by the facts. Well, let's start with each one of us at home! I at home have a very calm awareness of what mine did, because I believe that the agreement and, finally, the legislation that was adopted in 2011 is a before and after in the labour rights of this country, and especially in the labour rights of domestic workers. And I think that all, Spanish, not Spanish, in feeling... we must comply with that legislation. So, as I was saying, start at home. And I end by saying what I was saying at the beginning, that I hope that this study will produce a result that will allow us to have a global view, that will also allow us to have much clearer what the way is, and we can go through it together to solve the problems, the shortcomings, and, ultimately, to be able to solve the problem of inequality that, I share, the domestic workers continue to have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u95	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians. Mr. Akiancia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u96	Thank you. Mrs. Etxebarrieta, I don't want you to be sorry. Don't go away with pity, you don't have to go away with pity. I don't want him to go away. I didn't send him anywhere either. I have said that we must understand, understand legislation as a whole. At least that's what I think I said. The fact that I don't want you to leave with pity doesn't mean that I'm not going to tell you things as I understand them to be. And the initiative is yours, and this conversation we could have had before, and I would have told you how I see this question, how we see this question. Well, after that, you say the tone... The tone? Have I been critical? Yeah, because I'm worried, because I'm worried about what can be created with this. And not only would we suffer; you would suffer too. I'm very concerned about what you can create with this. And then, about sticking to the question. You put forward a proposal not for a strictly legal law; the operative part is strictly legal: that these two articles be automatically suspended. Strictly legal. What we have done is an analysis of what you propose, an analysis of assumptions, what would happen in these cases. What would happen in these cases? And what I told him before the signal was what would happen. That's what would happen. You wouldn't get it – I can tell you with whatever tone you want –..., you wouldn't make it up to half a meter. I have devoted myself exclusively to the question that you raise. Mr Hernández, I have devoted myself exclusively to the issue raised in the initiative. And it is a question which, although it seems to appear to be in the field of social policy, is essentially a question of work, and what is being raised since 2 February, since that agreement, is to lay the groundwork for progress on this issue. Mrs. Llanos threw one at me saying, "It's just that you guys always shield each other..." No, no. We do not hide ourselves from the fact that labour regulation is a regulation or exclusive competence of the State. No, because from that study it can also come out – which in my opinion will come out on this issue – it will come out in the first place that it is irrelevant that we make these articles disappear (it will come out in the first place, in my opinion, that), but in the second place what steps must be taken in other chambers, with which I have adhered to the question, Mr Hernández. And in those chambers you have a very powerful parliamentary group. In those cameras is where they have to be portrayed. Not just this one, also that one. Because I share what we already shared on February 2. I share many issues on this subject. I agree that this transit that gives that additional provision 39 of that law is a transit, so to speak, unjust, but it does. And it's there, halfway. They are neither what they were nor what many of us believe they have to be, but obviously, if we read regulation, regulation in this sense, they are what they are. And the exclusion, I repeat, is there. And the exclusion, Mrs Etxebarrieta – and forgive me for getting too heavy – is there. It's not on the sign of those two articles. Do the exercise, please: delete them, and see how the exception comes out. You will have much to say on this issue. Say it. Say it. Do not come here in this position, in this speech which Mr Andueza has also underlined to you, and then in other areas do not take that courageous step that they are taking in this. That is where much progress can be made, too, and Osalan's study I am sure he will say so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u97	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. The end is, together, Podemos. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u98	Let's see, more or less briefly. Mrs Llanos, do not worry, that one thing is that I say..., I have perhaps used a vulgar expression, but that gives me the refusal to reach agreements, not with you, but with your party, on ideological issues, and another thing is that – and I have said this in my previous speech – if we agree with you on something concrete, and moreover it has been seen in this House, we have no problem signing it and talking to you. Don't worry about it. And that is why I referred in my speech to the fact that your amendment was very similar to EH Bildu's proposal, and I therefore believe that... well, I do not think that if you had agreed, we would have voted on it for the content with which we agreed. I do not think I have made any doctrinal speech at all, nor have I denied the Socialist Party what it has been able to do on this issue. In fact, I have said that in recent years or the last decade some progress has been made, and some setbacks that have more to do with the People's Party than with the Socialist Party. But I do repeat that I believe that it is a matter of political will, not for a mantra, but because I understand, and I have argued, that when you put forward an amendment that talks about something else, and you are talking about asking Congress or the Government of the State to ratify the ILO agreement, and you do not take anything from the original amendment, I believe, and I have said that you are doing so because the current Government, the Basque Government, is currently not in agreement with carrying out what was being asked, that this collective worker can take advantage of this aid. I don't think that's any ideological mantra. Yes, I admit I'm quite an ideological person, but I don't think I've spoken here in any doctrinal sense at all. And we reiterate that it is not a question of labour law. They are aid given by the Basque Government, and therefore, in our view, those points in the decrees can be perfectly eliminated, and these people could receive such aid if they meet the requirements. Because these workers, even if they have a special employment relationship, as defined by the Workers' Statute, have employment contracts, those that work (there is also a submerged sector, of course), but they have employment contracts, and they are entitled to conciliation measures: they have the right to reduce their working hours, they have the right to surpluses, just like the rest of the workers. That's labour legislation. What they are not entitled to is aid from the Basque Government. And that's not labor legislation, Mr. Aiartza. And I'm not a lawyer, but I think it's very clear. And if that is not the case, and in addition to all the groups have shown will in this, I hope that the Basque Government will do as soon as possible what it thinks it has to do, but it will not do so right now. Otherwise, you would have reached a compromise with them, so that, according to the way you believe this has to be done, it would have been done. But that is not true, and that is why I repeat that, as long as no one else gives me any other reason, I think it is simply an economic issue, that for the government now it is not among its priorities to take action in this regard, because it would entail a fair cost, that I do not think it will be high, that it is the fact that these people can benefit from this aid. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u99	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Now that we have finished our discussion, we shall vote with the original text of the proposition, which is the same as the EHG Team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 75; the supporters are 29; the opponents are 46; white, 0; abscessations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u100	So it's not accepted. Next, we'll vote for the Esquila Populars, Euscala Sociists, and the middle-line corrections signed by the Basque Abertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 75; the supporters are 46; the opposites are 29; white, 0; Absencesion is 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u101	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Number of points in theme list: "Another proposal of Podemos, as a parlamentary group, to change the economic preparation for a single payment for women who are the victims of the strength of the genus. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Together, Poedemus. Ms. Arana, it's your word to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u102	Good noon, everyone. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Elkarrekin Podemos presents this initiative within the framework of the determined will of this parliamentary group to give greater impetus to policies of equality and against macho violence from a feminist perspective. To this end, we are working to develop initiatives that promote comprehensive and cross-cutting policies and measures at all institutional and social levels. Also initiatives such as this, which focus on a measure that has been in operation since the adoption of the Organic Law 1/2004 of 28 December on Measures for the Comprehensive Protection against Gender Violence, in order to put an end to this widespread scourge in our society and which directly violates human rights and the dignity and life of women. This week again outrage, outrage and absolute condemnation of a new episode of macho violence in La Coruña. The murder of an 11-year-old child perpetrated by a man, the father of the child with a woman from whom he had a restraining order. In Euskadi last week we had to condemn and from this Parliament we issued a statement as a result of the femicide of a woman from Eibar and her twelve-year-old son. These episodes, these data, far from paralyzing us, force us to redouble our efforts in all areas of our lives, and especially in the responsibility we have as parliamentarians. We want a parliament and a government that gives clear, unequivocal signals, beyond declarations, determined to improve measures, to promote and provide the necessary resources, policies of prevention and action against macho violence, whose eradication should be one of the absolute priorities of any political force. This compromise, the unanimity of this Parliament, is a sign in this respect. We welcome it, and recognize the willingness of all groups to reach this agreement. The measures that we drive through this and other initiatives must go through all policies, from the impulse to educational policies in equality, to economic, social, employment, justice, work, security..., to the strengthening and creation of structures for the participation of feminist groups in the design, implementation and evaluation of the protocols of action. Furthermore, with regard to the measures already in place, we believe that legal and bureaucratic obstacles must be reduced to making available to women who suffer male violence the social resources necessary to ensure their physical integrity, to facilitate their personal autonomy and to support a violence-free life project, creating a comprehensive network of resources to provide comprehensive care. The latter is what we want to push forward with this initiative. Women whose human rights have been violated on a daily, systematic and repeated basis must be accompanied and supported on their way out to a life free from violence, without hesitation and without fissures, with specific measures that put women, their needs, their particular difficulties, their strengths and potentials at the centre of politics. Women who survive this serious violation of rights have to face the marks that violence has left in all dimensions, areas and aspects of their lives, in addition to serious physical damage, the most visible. But violence can also generate low self-esteem, deep depression, deterioration of their economic and property situation, fear, stress, acute mental shock, anxiety and disorientation, feelings of subordination, dependence and submission, guilt, uncertainty, doubts and indecisions due to emotional blockage. These women have little or no margin in decision-making in their own lives. They also suffer sleep disorders, internalization of sexism, dependence on the male and, in general, on all figures of authority. In this situation it is essential to have a temporary economic support that supports the beginning of a process of comprehensive reparation for the damage suffered at the physical level, but also at the level of self-esteem, psychological, emotional, economic, property, sexual..., ultimately, in all areas of their daily life, including work, in which gender-based violence has a profound impact. It is a matter of undertaking a new project of violence-free life, on numerous occasions with dependent children, who are also victims and deeply damaged, and to this end the adoption of this proposal is essential. Amnesty International in 2016, in relation to violence against women, stated: "The comprehensive law does not address the right to reparation for victims of gender-based violence, which should include, among other issues, adequate compensation and guarantees of non-repetition. Twelve years later, the lack of commitment to surviving victims is a pending and unaddressed subject." International agencies, such as the CEDAW Committee, have reiterated to Spain their obligation to ensure that women and girls have access to immediate means of redress and protection. In this context we are going to the compromise that this Parliament will adopt unanimously today. The first point calls on the Basque Government to study and review, and we hope that a modification of the requirements for access to the single payment financial benefit for women victims of male violence will also be made. In the justification of the initiative we presented, we proposed that the order of 29 October 2014 of the Councillor for Employment and Social Policies, which regulates this benefit, we find a list of requirements to meet which we consider an obstacle to the exercise of the right and delineate the central reason why women should have access to it, which is nothing other than the violence experienced. The conditions for granting and paying the aid are as follows: (a) Be registered, at the date of application, in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, for a period of six months. (b) No income exceeding 75 per cent of the current inter-branch minimum wage in monthly calculation, excluding the proportional share of two extraordinary wages, as provided for in Article 5 of the order. (c) Have special difficulties in obtaining a job, which will be credited through a report issued by Lanbide-Vasco Employment Service. (d) To allocate assistance to temporarily alleviate the absence of income, in order to provide it with minimum subsistence resources that will enable it to become independent from the aggressor and stabilize its situation. (e) Not having previously benefited from this aid either in the Basque Autonomous Community or in any other community. (f) To accredit the situation of gender-based violence in the form provided for in the following article, not more than one year having elapsed between the entry into force of the protection measures and the date of application for such assistance. (g) Do not live with the perpetrator or continue to have a relationship with the perpetrator. (h) No administrative or criminal penalties shall be found with the loss of the possibility of obtaining public aid or subsidies, nor shall they be subject to any legal prohibition that renders them unable to do so. (i) Be aware of the fulfilment of their tax obligations and of social security, as provided for in existing legislation. We really think that this order should be studied, revised and modified, in order to expand and facilitate women's access to such necessary temporary economic support in such complex circumstances. We want this Parliament and the Basque Government to adopt the Organic Law 1/2004 of 28 December on Comprehensive Protection Measures against Gender Violence, as a reference to minimums, from which to develop standards that improve guarantees and access to rights. In addition, through initiatives such as this, we have the opportunity to continue to build and promote a system of care that implements in a systematic and structured manner specific redress measures for victims of sexist violence, an aspect that we urge the Government to incorporate and develop in depth in the drafting of the bill for the eradication of violence against women, in paragraph 7 of this transaction. Although we know that the changes to be made in the implementation of the benefits will be defined on the basis of the study and revision proposed in this transaction, we will briefly share opinions and proposals on some of the requirements set out in the decree. On the first requirement, we understand that for any woman who is emerging from a situation of violence in our territory, whether by previous ties, by current ties, by relationships of trust, because a new job arises..., ultimately, for whatever reason, the minimum social or family networks necessary to install and undertake a new project of life free of violence must be supported, regardless of their seniority in the pattern. On the third point, which states that women must have special difficulties in obtaining employment and Lanbide-Vasco Employment Service accredit them, really, aware of the marks and consequences that leave violence in women's lives, we understand that the special difficulties are unquestionable and unquestionable. The process of getting out of a situation of violence is always a burden, an added difficulty for the active search for employment and everything that it requires. Regardless of the age or level of general or specialized preparation, special circumstances that are living on their own should be seen as a determining factor in the process of improving their employability. On the last two requirements, those which refer to not being punished administratively or criminally with the loss of the possibility of obtaining aid or subsidies and being aware of the fulfilment of tax obligations, we believe that they should be reviewed, in the light of the processes in which economic violence and property violence have been exercised. It is a complex issue, we know, but it is not impossible to review and resolve. This Parliament shows that there is political will, and there is also sufficient experience accumulated by the specialized and professional services to generate more and better accreditation mechanisms that are both facilitators and guarantors. The order for protection, conviction or report of the Public Prosecutor's Office excludes from support women who are not prepared to initiate judicial proceedings when they make the decision to interrupt the relationship or who decide not to initiate it. From our point of view, what is really important, essential and central to the implementation of the entire battery of care, protection and reparation measures of the necessary damage in each case should be the initiative of the woman to bring to the attention of any organism (being social services, justice, health services, police, education, etc.)... Whatever the chosen route, there must be inter-agency procedures and protocols to address, protect and substantiate this situation, without the complaint becoming an exclusive requirement. These are some of the ideas that we will bring to the review and review that we unanimously adopted in this House today. In point 2 of this compromise, we take up a concern that we have already expressed. With regard to GIR and supplementary housing provision, if a gender analysis is made of its implementation, requirements, orders and procedures, it can be concluded that women who are in a situation of social exclusion are clearly at greater risk. We also continue with concern what social groups are moving to us about Lanbide's attention to women in terms of privacy, confidentiality, etc. The current general reading is that GIR does not guarantee an alternative in case of male violence. That is why we found it very pertinent to incorporate Mrs Etxebarrieta's proposal to resume a compromise approved by the Committee on Employment, Social Policy and Housing adopted on 15 June 2015 on the obstacles and difficulties that Lanbide poses in receiving GIR for women victims of violence. In this intervention we also mention in particular point 10 of the transaction: to incorporate measures, in the bill that the Basque Government calls "for the eradication of violence against women", for the prevention, early detection, protection, care and reparation of the damage to children and adolescents who are victims of violence against women. The reality in the last two weeks, unfortunately, has once again shown us that minors in the care of women victims of violence by couples or ex-partners are also victims, and are exposed to a high level of risk. The new law will have to echo this reality, which has remained invisible for years, and enact clear measures in this regard. Finally, we would like to highlight the points that refer to the participation of both women who have accessed the benefits and of agents, institutions, agencies, professionals, etc., essential to ensure that we carry out processes that observe and collect all the complexity, the accumulated knowledge, the experience and the daily practice of public policies. I conclude by acknowledging once again the will of this Parliament to reach agreements on this central issue to improve women's lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Passing the crews who were running the corrections, representing the Basque Potion Group. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u104	Thank you, Mr. President. Good day again, members of the Parliament. To-day we discuss a serious question of this society, about the violence of women, and it is very grateful that we should come to an agreement in this legislature. It is a question of today, too, of the past events, and, as the earlier party said, reflection is indispensable on this subject. We must mention, that in the state there has been an agreement or a compact signed to vary the law which is in force in the state. We are dealing with a topical issue such as gender-based violence, and we also need to bring to the fore the latest episodes of gender-based violence, which obviously re-emphasize that we are faced with a real scourge and one of the main problems of this society. I wanted initially to highlight the agreement unanimously, also the efforts of all the groups, and above all the satisfaction of this group, because the two points that we took up in our amendment, presented to the original proposal, have been fully reflected in the agreed compromise amendment. He said that there was a need for reflection, a reflection that had already been initiated at the state level with the state pact against gender-based violence signed at the Congress of Deputies, which had made it possible to create a subcommission to deal with this scourge, the problem of gender-based violence, and above all to arrive at a report on a diagnosis of the situation, and with concrete measures to remedy the many shortcomings also contained in the 2004 Comprehensive Law against Gender-based Violence. We must consider several aspects of this problem, both the principles, the answers, prevention, protection in different parts, and then, as has been said, the state of the minors must also be considered. We believe that we need to focus on various aspects, such as causes, responses, measures, services, with an assessment of them too – which is also one of the issues that we talked about in one of the previous debates – prevention, protection in the various areas, protection of these women at the time they are going to process the complaint – because we have data on how it is shown that many women file complaints and then withdraw (about 15% of the cases where women file complaints, then they withdraw) – and we also believe that it is important that comprehensive attention also addresses the situation of minors, those minors who are obviously orphaned. Eta bukatzeko, nik azpimarratuko nuke sinatutako akordioa aho batz aterako her. And, as I said, the points proposed by the People's Party have been included; therefore, apart from the order that the Elkarrekin Group intended to change, we are going to study and revise this order, which seems to us to be more appropriate terms, which are those contained in the compromise amendment. Obviously there is also a reference, as has been said here, to a compromise amendment also adopted unanimously in the last parliamentary term by all groups in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. And, as I said, they are satisfied, because the two points proposed by the People's Group are incorporated, which are to strengthen mechanisms to support victims and to promote awareness-raising, prevention and protection measures aimed at eradicating male-based violence, and also another of the issues that we have called for since the beginning of this parliamentary term, which is that the draft law for the eradication of gender-based violence should be referred to this House as soon as possible for regulatory action. Then, as he comes out with one mouth, there's nothing more to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u105	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Unite the EH team as representative. Madam Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u106	Thank you, and good noon again. It's very important that the two members of Podomos should be present together with this other proposal. In our opinion, we tried to do this plan with correction, we had to open this view of preparations: The only payment was very important, but we had to discuss the RGI, the additional preparation for the housing. And that's why we're very grateful, because we saw that we could easily and perfectly agree with the proposal you made at first, and, well, thank you for that. We believe that in the course of the investigations which have been discussed and approved in 2015, it is necessary to do and bring them here, because we have a suspicion that Omnipotent Omnipotents are not organized in the physical profession, in order to provide for the person who has suffered the force of the genus, because there is no intimacy, but these investigations must be placed on the table. Besides this, the conditions for receiving these preparations, which have been mentioned by Mrs. Arana, are important to lay the requisite certificates on the table, and we place it in this medium, as well as the participation of persons who have come to these preparations, and have failed to obtain them. These views are indispensable, but it is also necessary to receive the association and feminists of women in these matters. We built an association here, in ours, on the Human Rights Committee, and many women, who have endured a machista of violence, do not make their course through the usual formal courses, and often appeal to associations to the aid of the following process. And therefore it is really important that associations of this kind, which have contributed to several professions, should participate in them. The results of the quantum evaluation made around the law of equality had almost driven him to a very interesting study between the measures which the law itself says and the measures which are in motion...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u107	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u108	And I'd like to bring in some ideas that come out of it now as reflection. In the first place, one of the parts to be examined is structured, i.e. of the bureaucratic rhythms, or of the general needs of life. In particular, it belongs to the incompatibility of the vital effects of violence and of the bureaucratic rhythms. The question is often asked, though the transition of the doses of these women may be resolved to lighten it: Are we working on enough rhythms to deal with a situation like this? It was one of the points of reflection that sat there on the table that we take. And they expressed a second out of the social rule, that women who are out of stereotypes often found the difficulty of getting into readiness, because the laws themselves, or the measures placed in the demands, made it more difficult or more difficult to reach the means. In a certain sense, there were so many subjects, that we thought it interesting to bring these two ideas here, to continue to feed this discussion, because we believe that these two ideas may, therefore, in this way of discussion and reflection expand their steps. But these ideas and others are to be put on the table now, to give us a step along the way of improvement. It is the way to give birth, we believe, that door which social services ought to open: It is the victim of violence, but it is the service of making it easier for people who have the whole agency: To make decisions, we must build tools and paths to govern our lives. Victim, but not object. It is a step to-day, and we shall all be upon it, because we see that there is will and desire to work. And with the result of the inquiry in hand, we shall continue to proceed with particular proposals. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u110	Thank you very much, President. The parliamentary group Elkarrekin Podemos has presented an initiative concerning the modification of the single payment to women victims of gender-based violence. In the initiative presented, the proposing group proposed to modify the requirements for paying these single payment benefits to victims of gender-based violence, although it then did not explain very clearly what requirements it considered necessary to withdraw and why it considered that they were not adequate. Today Mrs Arana explained this in her speech with a little more depth. The order governing these requirements is 29 October 2014, i.e. two years ago. Of course, my group believes that the victims must have the necessary support to be able to undertake a new life project, which is fundamental, but there are also various actions that can be carried out in order to achieve it, in addition to the economic quantities, which are logically also important for them to be able to start that new life. The will of all political parties in this House and of the Basque Government to combat this social scourge of gender-based violence cannot be called into question. We continue to know cases continuously, and it is important to make progress in all matters relating to the protection of victims of gender-based violence. I am, of course, pleased at this point today, because all the parliamentary groups believe that we have made a very important effort to put everything together and agree on a very complete compromise amendment, which has come to collect and collect what we have been contributing in the various amendments that we have tabled by the various parliamentary groups within this compromise amendment. And that is why I believe that, being the subject of the importance and relevance that it has, I believe that this effort has been worth it. And we have managed to agree on that compromise amendment between the proposing group (the Elkarrekin Podemos group), the Basque Nationalist group, the Basque Socialist group and EH Bildu, and will vote in favour of it, although it has not signed it, the People's Group. It is a broad compromise amendment, which first refers to the Basque Parliament urging the Basque Government to study and review the conditions laid down in the order of 29 October 2014 by the Employment and Social Policy Adviser, and that women who have suffered male-based violence by those who are, or have been, their spouses or those who are or have been linked to them by some emotional relationship, even if there is no such coexistence, in order to be able to access this single-paying economic benefit. Also have in this process, for the study and revision of the order, with the active participation of all the public administrations that may have competence in this matter, such as the Basque Government, deputies, municipalities, in addition to Ararteko, and in addition another series of collectives to care for women victims of gender-based violence or feminists, or even within the health or judicial sphere, that could also contribute to this issue what they consider relevant. Also seek for the study and review the experiences and opinions also of women who have accessed these benefits, which is also important. To study and review the effective access of victims of gender-based violence to income-guarantee income, financial benefit, as well as the obligation to provide livelihoods for children, for which, inter alia, it requests that the reports and studies mentioned in the transactional amendment concerning the obstacles and difficulties that Lanbide poses in receiving GIR to women victims of gender-based violence, adopted on 15 June 2015, be sent to this Parliament. In particular, the systematization of the coordination of Lanbide with other departments of the Basque Government, which is very important in these areas, since everything concerning gender-based violence in the end affects different departments. And recommendations concerning the suitability and feasibility of the single specific window by the Basque Government. It also refers to the need to strengthen awareness-raising, prevention and protection programmes aimed at eradicating this macho violence; to refer the draft law on the eradication of violence against women as soon as possible; and to include within it specific measures for the reparation and social recognition of victims. To promote this effectiveness and efficiency in the care of victims of gender-based violence through this inter-agency coordination, which is essential; to establish early detection plans, for the care of male-based violence; and, in particular, for the reparation of harm to children and adolescents who are victims of gender-based violence. The last five points come to pick up everything that we had, between the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group, in our amendment to the whole, and the rest has also grouped, as I said, all the points included in the different initiatives of the different groups. These measures as a whole make it much easier for the victims, as I said, to start this life project, and I think it is quite broad and concrete, and it is in line with what is included in the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, called the Istanbul Convention of 11 May 2011, which was ratified by Spain on 1 August 2014. The foundations of the Convention are primarily to prevent violence, protect victims, sensitize society to change attitudes and break with the culture of tolerance and denial that perpetuates gender inequality and the violence it causes; thirdly, to stress the importance of coordinated action by all relevant government agencies and services and civil society; and, lastly, the collection of statistical and research data on all forms of violence against women. All these foundations which, as I have said, reflect this convention have also been incorporated into this compromise amendment which we have signed today. And already in the plenary of 23 February this year we adopted a compromise amendment signed by the Basque Nationalist Group, the Socialist Group, the EH Bildu Group and Elkarrekin Podemos, and with the vote in favour of the People's Group, for the inclusion in the legislative timetable of the drafting of a bill on the eradication of violence against women. Today's transactional amendment calls for this draft to be forwarded to this House as soon as possible for processing, and also for the incorporation in this new law of specific measures for the eradication of violence against women of reparation and social recognition of victims. In conclusion, I would just like to welcome the agreement reached, because it will enable us to take steps forward in the protection of victims of gender-based violence, which I believe is always positive. Moreover, as I have said, it is very complete and gathers all the proposals of the different groups. And, of course, we will therefore vote in favour of the amendment. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u111	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians represent the team. Madam, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u112	Thank you, Mr. President. The Chief of Investigation, the congressmen, all good noon. Today we propose to discuss the question as well as the change of economic preparation for women who are preyed on by the force of the genus. We're here to discuss an economic help that is so important to a lot of women. In fact, in the original text of this other law, there was proposed a change of decree, but we did not at first understand what the cause of this change was, or was not determined; so that, when we first planned the middle course, we were obliged to acquire this exactness. This proposal calls for a change in the requirements for applicants for this benefit, with the aim of granting and paying the planned financial aid to women victims of gender-based violence residing in the Basque Autonomous Community who lack sufficient financial resources and have special difficulties in finding employment. So we thought that the purpose of the decree was clear, that at last, for those who have but few economic resources, and who find it difficult to find work, the duties which at first demanded decrees were reduced to this. At first, as I have already mentioned, we did not understand the duties of this decree which were superfluous, or which were to be altered. Now you, Mrs. Eukene Arana, have shown what they are, and it has become clearer to us, but yet we believe that this universal help is not so clear to us. We believe that whoever needs to receive the benefit of what he needs, and who does not need it, ought not to receive this subsidy from him who has need of it, that, as far as he is a subsidy, he will need people who enter into some economic employments, and that these universal aids must be more of the police, the psychological persistence, the legal advice, the persistence of health, for example; but we ask the Government for an examination, and we shall see what they are, what they are to be changed, and what are to be found in the circumstances. Then again, you've said today and what's explained in your original text is that there's a fundamental contar un apoyo economic temporal para un proceso de los maños nivedosico, per tambi's avel de self-stillo, emocial, patonia, sexual... en defining, en todos los ámbitos de la videna. And I, too, take those words on me, I think that's what we're really agreeing with. Unfortunately, these victims, apart from this economic support, need a lot more support to get out and face it. And that's why RedMork works around this. On the one hand we have the telephonical Satev, and in the government class we have an Irritation of resources in the matter of the victims of the victims of the genetic power, who care for women who are victims of information and advice service. Even from the Security Department, from the edge, she's raped. In every office there is a tutor to these women who are victims of violence, who are offered a custom course. We also have a health protocol from the health department to take care of the women who are victims of genetic violence in the web of the Osar. From the house-house also a direct assignment is made in rent for women who are victims of the profundity of genera. We also have a scholarship system. They make coordination, promotion, advice, planning, and evaluation from the results. And I don't want to mention the work of generation to others in a simple reference, and I think the work that we do from the gift is important, considering that our subject is complicated and requires political and integrated actions. And therefore when Mme. Landaida came to the parliament, she explained to us the three principal landmarks which were the regulations: the second was to draw out this interinciative agreement, and the third to improve those services which are offered to women who are victims of violence. And, well, so many other things I leave behind without mentioning. And all this is done because we really believe that it is the right of all women to live without violence, unfortunately, because we have many women suffering violence, and they must know that they are not alone. Hence, from the institutions as well as from the responsibilities of each of us, we must protect them from each other. It is true that what was explained in the original text was like the beginning of the house from the roof to us. We asked for a fashion and then opened that door for participation or reflection. And we think that in this medium which has finally been attained, yes, I think we really make a more reasonable investigation, first of all, and then we'll see what they want, what positions they are in doubt and then we'll face the situation. At the second point, the second point of the medium that we have signed, the importance of associations, of the intermediary, and of the importance which the forums and the municipalities have. And in this respect I would like to praise both the municipalities and the works of the Aldudians, who, in the end, have considered the reality of the place, work a great deal about equality, and thus reach a larger area. And that's the way it is shown by the ninth report made by the State observation of Women's Anti-Beolence. Here we see the community which gives the most co-operation to Euscal, Autonomy; From 2006 to 2015, we can see that 850 support has been provided. And our next ones are valentians, and these have been given 560 help, so I think that we have a good network and we get to many women. And just thank you for the middle way we've got. I think we've all been willing to talk. We've all made it clear what our position is, and we've all been prepared for it. So thank you and nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Guruga. Someone wants to participate in the response shift... ? No. Now that the debate has ended, we will vote together with Podemos, Euskal Socialists, EH Collectors, and the Eunciators. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 72; the votes are 74; the supporters are 74; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; the abstainations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-11.u114	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. I shall next read an institutional expression: In the day of the third American social sector, the Eustacy Actal expression. "The third social sector of Europe will celebrate its day tomorrow, May 12th, Euskés in the Basque Act, accepts the Third Sector Act and for a year. The Basque Parliament wishes to take advantage of this ephemeride to confess the network and institutions of the third social sector of Eukata, and to remember the contribution which they make for a decent, solidarian, cohesion, and partial and democraticist society. "The institutions which have been established in society itself, and in its service, especially those of persons who work upon voluntary and voluntary action, defend the general interest above everything else. "An organized union, and a part of the society, are employed by networking and organizations, and thus, from a person, family, group, or community, given an immediate answer to immediate wants by encouraging the society of weak and helpless persons, and defending their rights. "The third social sector has been responding and responding to many needs of the citizenry, even before the public system contemplated some kind of response to persons and groups in situations of disability, exclusion, lack of protection or dependence, making a historical contribution to the configuration of the current Basque systems of social services and inclusion and employment, among others. "More than 3,000 organizations with a broad social base consisting of volunteers (127,000), and sometimes also paid staff (36,000), which combine response to needs with transformative action, and collaboration with institutions with critical and alternative capacity. "The third social sector is an asset that makes a differential contribution, to which Basque society cannot give up. Our society has to deal with increasingly complex and diverse problems, and needs the contribution and support of an organized, dynamic, strong and participatory civil society. "The role of the third social sector must therefore be a key based on the design, development, and execution of public policies, on mutual support, and always on the following points: Partion, social cohesion, government, social authority, the establishment and establishment of the systems of the public responsibility in this area, the demand of services and of the rights of persons, and of defence and promotion, as well as of the effective execution of them. "To think of all this: "One, the Basque Law wants to put on the Euskon and the foru-or-stemmatics to activate and fix and fix the interviews and work out the necessary cooperation for the third social sector in the circle of civil conversation. "Two of them, the Basque Law demands that the Euskalion and the Foru-the Ministry will continue to promote and strengthen the third social sector of the Basque Social Sector, a Euskata social network, a social partnership and an organized solidarity. "And three of them, the Euskacade district, the third social institutions dispersed into towns and cities, encourage the community to increase the support and participation of the community." Since the list of subjects has been exhausted, the whole meeting ends. It was three and fifteen in the afternoon.
