ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the entire meeting. Before we proceed to the list of subjects, I mean that Leixus, the Arriguegaga, the Member of Parliament, has made a vote for the spokesman of his party. One theme: " 2017 Euscal Autonomia Er memberia. Integer corrections proposed to the project that is supported by the general account of the year. The discussion and the vote. "Mingorn, Mr. Subazel, has the word to defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr. President. Good morning, parliamentary and ladies. I'm going to introduce in front of you a project of the Basque General Preservative Act in 2017, because it's the Chamber that's been accepting those years. On behalf of the Basque Government I appear to present to you the draft general budget law of Euskadi for the financial year 2017, whose annual approval is the responsibility of this House. Live, and without any other extension, I'll tell you that, according to the Expendive team, this project of the budgets approved by Euskeleon, is fixed within public services and basic preparations, an engagement taken with the model of social defense, especially in the field of health, education, and social education. In the same way he has also strengthened the stake for economic growth and for employment, in general making more public investments, especially in the field of innovation. Directly, and without delay, I will say that in the eyes of the Executive, this draft budget approved by the Vaco Government reaffirms its commitment to the Basque model of social protection, consisting of essential public services and services, particularly in the areas of health, education and social cohesion policies. It also reinforces its commitment to economic growth and employment, through greater public investment in general and in particular in innovation. As I pointed out in my appearance before the Committee on Finance and Budgets a few weeks ago, this is a budget project which has been drawn up at a time when the Basque economy has reached an important rate of growth due to favourable tail winds, but which, when they cease, is called upon to experience a certain slowdown, even if the rates of progress of the gross domestic product remain within levels which we consider to be estimated. Moreover, it is now perceived that the strength of growth inertia can imply a certain upward bias, although it is also true that there are large doses of uncertainty linked to electoral and political processes that have had and will take place in our environment. I would like to place the draft General Budgets Act for this year in its economic context, to comment on the functional allocations of the expenditure budget for specific public policies in a succinct manner, and to conclude by making a strictly political and institutional assessment of the support collected and found in the various parliamentary groups. These budgets for the 2017 financial year have been drawn up in a moderate overall economic context, in which the institutions focus on changing China's growth model, the exit of Britain from the European Union (whose negotiations began yesterday), the electoral processes in various European countries, and the consequences of the foreseeable protectionist momentum in the United States, where, on the other hand, an increase in interest rates has already begun. In 2016, world economic activity grew in the order of 3.1; the United States limited its growth to 1.6, and the European Union did so in 1.9. For its part, the good performance of the emerging economies was due, on the one hand, to the maintenance of China's momentum, which grew by 6.7 and India, above 7 %. On the other hand, it is also due to the smaller fall in the countries or economies of Russia and Brazil in relation to the year 2015, conditioned by the collapse of commodity prices. The Basque economy grew by 3.1% in 2016, a rate that improves growth by two tenths in 2015. This is the highest rate of change since 2007, and represents a recovery in the level of gross domestic product in 2008, prior to the start of the recent crisis. This is a balanced growth model from a sectoral point of view, as industry and services share a leading role, both with variation rates of 3 %, with a certain recovery in construction. It is also balanced from the point of view of the external sector, although domestic demand drives growth. As for the growth of the world economy in 2017, the International Monetary Fund is 3,4 %. In the case of Euskadi, the forecasts of the Department of Finance and Economy envisaged when the budget was presented an increase for the Basque economy for 2017 of 2,3 %, eight tenths lower than in 2016. However, last week, after noting the alcist trends in prices, we proceeded to review upwards by two tenths (up to 2.5) the growth forecast for 2017, and we have quantified growth by 2.2 for 2018. The growth of the economy would therefore be similar to that given by the Banco de España or the Ministry of Economy to the Spanish economy, which is also 2.5%. Net employment increased in 2016 by 1.9%, three tenths above the 2015 rate, and we estimate that this employment will grow by 1.7 in 2017 and by 1.4 in 2018. These data will create 15,000 jobs this year, and close to 13,000 additional jobs next year. However, despite this high growth in employment and the generation of 34,000 jobs since 2014, we still have 10% less employment today than before the crisis, and an unemployment rate of 12.3%; an unemployment rate estimated to reach 12.1 on average in 2017, and 11.7 also in average terms, in 2018. There is a long way to go for the recovery of the lost occupation; that is why the Government's priority has been on employment and economic recovery, with the aim of reducing this unemployment rate below 10% during this term. The macroeconomic scenario described contextualizes a draft budget which must also take into account the multiannual framework, with its economic trends and a path towards correcting imbalances. We must not lose sight of the fact that the process of fiscal consolidation affecting economic and budgetary policies throughout the European Union, and therefore also to Euskadi, greatly limits the ability to add revenue through deficit and debt. However, it should be noted that the consolidation effort for this year is moderate, as the deficit of 0,6 % is similar to that at the end of 2016. These deficit-level constraints must be combined with the fact that the revenue from the contributions of the Members of the European Parliament in this exercise does not increase virtually any of those expected in the previous year. However, in comparative terms, from budget to budget, the deficit level increases from 0,3 % in 2016 to 0,6 % in 2017, and that is what allows for moderate income growth, which, as I have said on more than one occasion, does not allow great joy in spending, but gives room for action to take important decisions within the framework of public policies. In global terms, the General Budgets of Euskadi for 2017 contain appropriations to cover the expenditure of the public administration of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi in the total amount of EUR 11,059,7 million, presenting a variation of 1,2 % in relative terms and of EUR 126,4 million in absolute terms. Of course, the budgets of all the common institutions are included, and the budgets of Parliament itself are informatively included. From the income point of view, the contributions of the outside parliaments for this year represent 9,103 million, that is, 82,3% of the total budgetary revenue. From the sum of the new needs due to the deficit and the refinancing of the debt maturity of the year, and the net acquisition of financial assets, results in gross emissions for this year 2017 of 1,371.4 million euros. The financial burden for this financial year resulting from the payment of interest and repayment of the principal shall amount to EUR 1,036 million, of which 788 will be amortisation, and the remainder, 248, interest payment. Both concepts are declining from the previous year, which in the case of debt amortization stands at 104 million. In this regard, I would also like to point out that the effective interest rate, i.e. that of annual interest paid on debt, has been gradually falling, at present at 2.36 %. As far as the current account balance is concerned, that is, the difference between current income and current expenditure, amounts to $227.4 million. This means that the Government has a structural capacity to generate positive savings; one aspect that I would like to highlight, because, contrary to some misunderstandings, this means, moreover, that the financing due to indebtedness is directed at capital expenditure, which is the golden rule of public finances. If the budget is analysed from the expenditure perspective, following the chapters of the economic classification, staff and operating expenditure show developments similar to those of previous years. The new feature is that financial expenditure is reduced by 11 % in comparative terms. As regards the evolution of investments, capital transfers and increase in financial assets, they increase to EUR 1,239 million, an increase of more than EUR 42.5 million over the previous year. In relative terms, capital transactions are increased by 3,6 %, above the increase in total current transactions. In general, the development of the expenditures of the preceding classes reflects two chief marks of action; To guarantee public policies to satisfy essential needs, and to enable permanent growth that will produce economic development and employment. The result is, in general, from 76% of the preceding expenditures of 2017, that of society-politics; health, education, and social action. Generally speaking, the evolution of expenditure in the different sections of the budgets reflects the orientation towards two main axes of action: ensuring public policies to meet people's essential needs, and promoting sustainable growth that boosts economic development and employment. As a result, in global terms, 76% of the expenditure in the 2017 budget relates primarily to social policies, health, education and social action. Although the Government's planning process has just begun with the recent adoption by the Governing Council on 17 January of the calendar of strategic plans for the legislature (which, as you know, is fifteen), the fact is that this draft public accounts already contains enough appropriations to cover the expenses to be included in some plans to be drawn up and approved this year. It also includes the necessary items to address existing strategic and departmental plans. All of this is reflected in the main public policies that this Government intends to implement through these budgets throughout the year. I shall now turn to its main figures. For example, I am beginning with the EUR 43 million allocated to the Basque Development Cooperation Agency to continue the work of solidarity with developing countries, in order to contribute to the construction of a more just and balanced world. The amount allocated to Justice in the 2017 budget amounts to EUR 175.1 million, of which EUR 34.1 million is earmarked primarily for social needs in the field of justice, and for the articulation of alternative means to the judicial resolution of conflicts. The public security and civil protection policy has a total of EUR 615.4 million, of which EUR 593.6 million is earmarked for the improvement and maintenance of the Ertzaintza, EUR 12.1 million for traffic and EUR 4.6 million for civil protection. The policy to combat social exclusion will have a total amount of EUR 534.9 million, including those for income-guarantee income and supplementary housing benefit (491.3 million) and for social emergency aid, with EUR 23 million, in addition to EUR 4 million as a compensation mechanism set out in the eighth transitional provision of the Basque Local Institutions Act. With regard to family policy and Community development, 63 million will be allocated to measures for the protection and support of families with children and to aid for the reconciliation of family and working life. In the field of employment, active employment policies will have an allocation of EUR 340.9 million in 2017, of which 228 will be dedicated to the promotion of employment and 112.9 will be dedicated to unregulated vocational training. On the other hand, the Basque Employment Service-Lanbide will allocate EUR 199.9 million to support employment promotion, such as those for special employment centres or the Lehen Aukera programme, for example, and EUR 94.6 million to employment training, which includes EUR 18.5 million managed by Lanbide in collaboration with the Hobetuz public foundation, whose budgets as a public sector entity are included for the first time in the Euskadi General Budgets, for the implementation of training actions planned by companies and aimed at improving the skills and qualifications of workers. The planned budget for the development of health policy amounts to EUR 3.537.5 million, which is EUR 116 million more than in the previous financial year. This includes $2,644.2 million for the Department of Health programme contracts with the twenty-two Osakidetza service organizations to finance their operating costs. In addition, to ensure that the health system has the right technology and infrastructure, EUR 52.6 million will be allocated to the financing of Osakidetza's investments. Look, Euskadi invests 1,617 euros a year per person in health. It is also worth mentioning the items of expenditure in pharmacy, with an amount of more than EUR 500 million. These budgets also allocate $2,575.9 million to education policy to advance the equity and quality of the education system. Quantitatively more significant expenditure items at these stages are those corresponding to the basic operating needs of the public network, with a total of 1,168.2 million (including personnel, operating costs, works in educational centres, furniture and equipment for information processes), and 609.7 million for the payment of educational concerts with the concerted centres. In this area, the Haurreskolak consortium also receives a total of 42.7 million, while subsidizing the private and municipal supply of squares. In addition, 45.8 million will be allocated to lifelong learning and educational innovation for teachers. In the chapter on higher education, an unequivocal bet will be made to advance towards the international excellence of the Basque university system, with an amount of 317 million euros. During this exercise, we will continue to support the development of science, technology and innovation in the academic field and in the basic research centres of excellence, as well as policies of recruitment, promotion and retention of talent, each year increasing resources for scientific policy and basic university research by 5%. The economic investment to be made in the public university will allow further progress towards a future scenario of spending on higher education of 1.5% of GDP, with funding from public finances. In addition, this year it is planned to transfer part of the funding by objectives to the regular funding of the public university, in order to consolidate part of the staff and comply with the agreements established in the university plan. In the field of educational promotion, a total of 173.9 million will be allocated to university and non-university scholarships and grants, as well as to catering and school transport. Environmental policies, in turn, account for about 192 million, and have seen an increase of 12.9 million over 2016, mainly as a result of the obligations set out in the Housing Act to facilitate access to decent, adequate and accessible housing for those who cannot afford it in the free market, especially those in situations of social exclusion. For its part, the Department of Culture has in this year 2017 a budget of 189,7 million euros, managed through programs of promotion of culture, historical-artistic heritage, media of social communication, and sports. In the field of language policy, an amount of EUR 52.3 million will be allocated. To this amount should be added the items included in the programme of linguistic standardisation of the public administration (another 10.3 million) and those intended for the euskaldunisation of the education system (42.4 million euros, for the Irale programme for the most part). The transport and infrastructure policy amounts to a total of EUR 634 million, providing for a budgetary appropriation for the implementation of the new Basque Y rail network of EUR 350.5 million. With regard to R & D+i, the 2017 budget with a budget of 260,4 million euros, represents the third year of the new Science, Technology and Innovation 2020 Plan. The technology programme, with EUR 139.9 million, plays the most important role, in economic terms, in driving the smart specialisation strategy, in line with the European model of RIS3. As regards the actions promoted by the Department of Education in the research programme, with €44.3 million for 2017, resources for scientific policy and basic university research will be increased by 5% annually, as I have pointed out above. The agri-fishery research and development programme will have EUR 17.7 million. The Innovation Fund, a cross-cutting programme covering several departments, will have €37 million. The digital innovation agenda, which is also cross-cutting, is equipped with 21.6 to finance activities to promote and extend the new Digital Agenda of Euskadi 2020 and the KZgunea. Agricultural, livestock and fisheries policy expenditure amounts to EUR 113.5 million, of which EUR 61.1 million comes from European funds. With regard to policies aimed at improving competitiveness and boosting economic growth, we will continue to focus on those that respond to the dual objective of counteracting the effects of the crisis on Basque companies and strengthening the competitiveness of the economic fabric, as a means of permanently and sustainably improving our well-being. In turn, business entrepreneurship and the internationalisation of SMEs will continue to be promoted. These policies for this year amount to a total of 131.7 million. Energy policy, for its part, is led by the Basque Energy Agency, with a budget of EUR 37.2 million. Finally, the budget allocation for tourism policy in 2017 will reach EUR 17 million. For its part, the public trade policy of the Basque Government is broken down into two areas: internal trade, and the area of internationalisation, to which 13.6 million euros and 22.7 million euros will be allocated respectively. These are the main figures for budgets that, aware of the parliamentary position of the Government and the groups that support it, we have tried to reach consensus and agree with the opposition groups in order to seek their approval by this House. We have, as you know, held meetings with all the parliamentary groups in the House, with a totally open attitude as a starting point and, contrary to what has been suggested by some, without prejudice or a certain attitude. It has been through these talks that we have been discovering some greater approximations to the Government's project, and also discrepancies of different magnitude, which in some cases came to clash with the bases of the budgetary model and with the criteria of the Government's economic policy. We tried to exchange our ideas with the Basque People and together with the Podemos. In fact, these two teams don't agree with the budget bill. However, although we agree in certain respects of the present state, we have political and economic differences in the budget model of content and structure. And at this moment it is permitted that there should be discords, because every one fixes his opinion about it. Within the political game, each group may maintain its identity in respect of its ideology. In particular, in successive rounds of contrasting ideas with Euskal Herria Bildu and with Elkarrekin We have found that these groups were ostensibly moving away from the draft budgets. While this did not prevent us from sharing the analysis of certain aspects of the current situation, it is true that the political and economic discrepancies of concept and form affected nuclear elements in which the Government's policy is shaped. It is certainly totally legitimate and logical that these differences arise, as they respond to the ideological prism and personality of each group, and to the way in which each one faces the political game. We have simply reached a point where real convergence did not seem possible. On the contrary, we have found that the People's Party did not challenge the basic pillars of the Government's budget model, and that is what has enabled a dialogue aimed at proposing concrete points that deserved to be strengthened. This has happened with policies aimed at improving our economic fabric, entrepreneurship and small and medium-sized enterprises, investments and support for certain essential services, such as health, and family policy, to name a few. In addition, we have agreed on the very importance of Euskadi having budgets, and that that was a value that deserved a rapprochement effort. We have also joined the popular party, and have shown ourselves in favor of the development of the policies which tend to improve so much, as a hundred economics, enterprises, small and mediums, finances, internationalization, and socialnomy. In this state of extension, we believe that budget is a good thing to both parties. That is why, even since the existence of notable political, ideological and economic differences on both sides, we have seen that it was possible to share with the People's Party of the Basque Country a common diagnosis of the specific budgetary moment that we are experiencing, and also a commitment to help strengthen some public policies of interest by incorporating certain initiatives that do not, in my opinion, distort the project presented by the Government. And once we get to this point, I would like to underline and thank at the same time for the willingness to dialogue and for the agreement of all, all the parliamentary groups, with which we have at least contrasted our priorities. It is true that it has finally been with the People's Parliamentary Group that we have seen the possibility of adding will to guarantee this budget, which, as a finance and economic adviser and responsible for the budgets, I sincerely thank, but, being so, I would like to highlight not only the agreement, but also the effort of the entire political forces. Without forgetting, of course, the groups that support the Executive, the Euzko Abertzaleak groups and the Basque Socialists, of which we will receive the main support. In conclusion, I would also like to point out that this is the first budget of this legislature, and although it may seem to be born as a transitional budget in the economic sphere, i.e. without major changes in the total figures, it does not appear to be the same from the political perspective. This is a budget that comes from an executive formed after a coalition agreement, with a government program for this comprehensive legislature, and with very clearly marked economic and budgetary priorities. And it's not only important because of that, but because throughout 2017 there will be important milestones in fiscal and financial terms. In the first, for the evaluation of the tax reform that entered into force in 2014, which is being done, and for any updating measures that may be proposed. In the field of financial relations, for the negotiations opened with Madrid and the Spanish State on the outstanding liquidations of the quota for previous years, as well as the methodology of marking for the present five-year period. We can say that during the current financial year we can lay the foundations for a new economic outlook for the coming years, which can be decisive for stability, economic growth and social cohesion. I would like to think, sincerely, that we will be able to overcome the demands of the fiscal consolidation process and any other contingencies that may arise, and that we will be able to make these new perspectives come true. The Government will, of course, do its best to do so, and I sincerely hope that it will cooperate fully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u2	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Collect the EH team representative, Mr. Casanova, you have the word to prevent full correction.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u3	Hello. Good morning, everyone. The objective of today's plenary session is to discuss whether or not to accept the budgets submitted by the Government for the 2017 financial year. I will start without rodeos: we are faced with a bad budget, in quantity and quality, and that will also be approved through a bad agreement. A quantitatively poor budget, because it is based on an insufficient collection base, which is unable to provide the Government with the necessary resources to strengthen public policies. A qualitatively bad budget, because it misselects the priorities, taking away the opportunities that, despite the limited income, always offers to have an economic volume like the one that occupies us. Eta aurrekontua kuantititaboki eta kualititaboki txarra bada, horren inguruan their own akordioa has txarragoa yes, bai èta mamiaren aldetik ére. By the way, because it's been secretly negotiated and out of our country. Basically, because it has been agreed with the People's Party, the force that generates the most rejection in our land, its policy of cuts in rights and freedoms, its attack on social services, its link to corruption, its negligent economic management, its opposition to the process of normalization in Euskal Herria and its refusal to recognize the rights of this people. These are bad issues, among other things, because there is not enough resources to satisfy wants. And it is also in the wrong direction that the majority of the eroscal society are agreed to a certain extremist and radical party which the majority of the community cannot see. In this context it is evident that EH has been repeatedly trying to make a different end of this chapter in an honest and active way. But as far as the result is concerned, we have no other choice: to introduce the correction of the integer that we are discussing today. This is a continuous budget without pulse, a budget of mere management, the result of the conformist and self-complacent mentality of the Government, a budget that confuses realism with resignation, a grey and conservative budget. Between the unrealizable ambitions and pure passivity there is an Aristotelian point of balance, which is the one that must seek a government with a strategic perspective. Without merely being a notary of the existing reality, a government with a desire for progress must aspire to be a partner, together with society as a whole, in the construction of a better reality. The Topi maintains that the budget is the principal exercise which a government exercises for its political purposes to practice. And in this case it is: The budgets are the reflection of the government program that came forward a month ago. In this program, 15 national targets are referred to, and these are the principal targets of government in this legislation, the great challenges, the backbones of activity, the titles of the government program, or the headlines. Now, seeing these aims, there can be two sets of them: one, that the ends they have are too low, and the other designed to make it difficult to evaluate their degree of perfection. Let's take a closer look at it. In a country whose educational model is experiencing serious difficulties, the goal, the target of a country that this Government has proposed, is to reduce school drop-out by at least 8%. If we consult the EPA, we find that the school drop-out rate is currently 8.3, but if we go to Eustat we point out that we are 7.2. Oh yes, helburu hours mengela hain, lortua dagoela, edo lortu ez bada, lortzare dagoela. In the area of peace, the goal pursued by the Government will be the disarmament of ETA; one more pretense, bearing in mind that since December last year it is public and notorious that such a process is already under way and that its completion in a short period of time is only a technical issue. In the field of Euscalation, it's what they're calling it a national target for the underlying 25 years, to have 75% of the population in the year of 2020. That percentage in 2011 was 60%. Thus it may seem that there is something which proposes, but it is a problem that this group of populations, under 25 to 20 years, will change, will not be the same young. That means those who were less than 14 years old in 2020 will be under 25 years. And behold the paradoxical contradiction, the reflection of your government: If we look at the data of 2011 years as reference, we shall see that at that period of age the number of Basques was 81%. You will therefore admit that the end is already too full. I would like to stress that I have not dived into the small letter of the government program to find these examples. They are selected by the Government itself as the standards of this legislature. Fifteen central objectives whose ambition and rigour we are seeing. I will now focus on the economic objectives of the programme. In the Urkullu, it's as an achievement to make the commitment to the public defense that Europe promises. First, it must be said that the mark of deficit is not an engagement, but an impulse, which has been inflicted on Spain for doing wrong. Secondly, It must be mentioned, that the most defensive is not a purpose which Europe commands. Spain imposes it on us. For Europe naturally prescribes a boundary to the State, and the State arbitrarily imposes on the autonomys. It is absurd, after all, to sell, in all ways, the policy of exchange as an achievement. In the field of R & D, Urkullu aims to launch 100 strategic innovation projects. It can be one hundred, ten or one thousand: the effort in R & D is measured as a percentage of gross domestic product invested or in other indicators, such as patents or publications; not in number of projects. A pointless objective, more fireworks, especially if it then passes as in the project of subsede of the European source of neutrons by spalling, to which between the Basque Government and the Spanish Government are letting die from budgetary starvation. Or perhaps these researchers will work under the same conditions as the predoctoral researchers, in the most absolute precariousness. In the industrial sector, which is the core of the Basque economy, the objective is to reach 25% industrial weight in the gross domestic product. According to Eurostat, in 2015 the figure was at 24 %. Let's move on. Another major objective is to achieve 125% of the EU's GDP per capita. And here again there is a trick: they do not tell us that in 2014, the last year with Eurostat figures, we were already at 119, and that in both 2015 and 2016 GDP growth figures in the Basque Autonomous Community have been above the European average, so we are probably already very close to that 125 %, if we have not achieved it. And I'd like to mention one last thing in this government program. In fact, I'm going to talk about the unemployment that is the main reflection of the economic situation. The goal will, in this case, be to descend from 10 percent. Labour Kutxa, in a report presented last December, still without this government, expects that this year's unemployment rate will already fall to 11%. The same entity published another report, in February 2016, quantifying more than 266,000 jobs to be covered by the demand for replacement, i.e. on grounds of retirement. Getting unemployment to fall by 10% in four years seems therefore, except for the reversal of the economic cycle, to be a more demographic than a political issue. Accumulating games from various departments and multiplying them by four, to give the impression that a huge amount of money, as the Government has done with its Employment Plan, is a very effective propaganda resource, but it does not bring anything new. It may be argued that, despite the country as a whole, the main indicators are improving. It is true in some respects, but two clarifications need to be made. Firstly, that the improvement is not based on the action of the Government, but on the productive structure of the country's industrial base, which is the great secret of the relative goodness of the Basque economy. And it is also based on the recovery of the environment, to which the advisor himself referred with the expression "tail wind", recovery of the global economic environment, with aid such as the low price of oil, the lowering of money, the fall of the euro, stimulus measures, or the recovery of external markets. We improve here, yes, they improve in Spain, they improve in Europe... It's getting better all over the world. On the other hand, what the Government has done is to elect fields by a great standard, and announce improvements in those areas where improvements were easy to get. He abandons greater aspirations and purposes. I don't want to know anything about predominance, provisionality, or partial employment. He doesn't say a word about being sold or hired, or about low pensions or the loss of the purchase power of the workmen. He doesn't want to know anything about the educational version or medical training in Europe, the investment in public employment in Europe, or the tax-pression and public services in Europe. He avoids that. This is a government that puts the bar very, very low. It can almost be said that he cheats, presenting objectives that are practically achieved, in order to be able to boast after he fulfills his promises. And if something goes wrong so that it cannot always be hidden, they will have the wildness of comparison with Spain, which will surely be worse. Qualifying this government as an anodist and passive is not a mere topic of the opposition, but a finding, given that its star proposals for the legislature consist in not retreating or advancing a little bit thanks to inertia or external push. The legislative paralysis of the past legislature, an almost blank legislature, is another sign of the passiveness of this government permanently in office. I started talking about the government program, because it's a good example to see the mentality of fun. Now, the budget shows that's the same thing. The program speaks in words, the budgets talk about numbers, but in this case they show the same diagnosis: conformism, continuity, signation, despair, great aims, etc. He often says, "This is the new partner of Urkullu, Mr. Rajoy," and they call us Urkullus and Subs. A year ago the lehendakari Iñigo Urkullu participated in an event with the Basque employer to explain together the data of a study and their shared diagnosis of the evolution of the economy and employment. The Lehendakari and the president of the Basque employer, Roberto Larrañaga – the chronicles tell – appeared in this event accompanied by three councillors, four vice councillors and six representatives of SEA, Cebek and Adegi (somewhat misconceptiond that this is almost the government in full). Solemnly, Mr Urkullu proclaimed that "some unions are out of reality", and that "who we are in reality, and working in reality to make it better, we are the Administration, and I think employers too". I do not know what things are like in the reality shared by Urkullu with the employer, but in the reality of the working world, for example, all the unions, all of them, have come to this House in the last few days to denounce that Confebask has blocked collective bargaining to apply a wage reduction and a widespread worsening of working conditions, taking advantage of the labor reforms imposed by its government partner and its new budget partner. As a result, workers in this country have lost five points of purchasing power in recent years, i.e. they are 5 % poorer, despite the sharp rise in GDP. Although this is not the reality of Urkullu and Confebask, I will give a series of data that are indeed part of the reality of most people in this country. In March 2007, 1400,000 people are unemployed, 13% of the population. Above the EAE are only Greece, Spain, and Cyprus in Europe. In raw numbers, there are 90,000 more jobs in the community than 2008. 60% of the unemployed don't get any preparation. The unemployment is becoming chronic. In 50,000 families, all members of the community are unemployed. The young people's unemployment is 35%. Double Europe. It's 96% of the young contracts. 10,000 young people have gone abroad, almost three thousand 2016 in the first semester, at least 60 percent won't come back. The employment that has been created or produced is of very bad quality. 93% of the contracts are temporary. Only 17% last longer than a month, 40% less than a week. The general provisional rate of public employment is constantly going up: today, it's 25%. Bare contracts are 40%. These are 75% women. In general, the difference between women and men is 8,000 euros. I mean, women make less than a quarter. Datu askoz gehiago daude poor buruz, gutxianeko soldier, pentsionisten egoeraz... Ez dakkagu denborarik denak errepasatzeko. Baina esan behar dugu, that in the face of this raw reality, in the face of this complex data, of a complex socio-economic reality for a majority, there are no country objectives to solve them. You're mutating for the forum. And it's just that turning this reality around is hard. To deal with it requires will, determination and resources, and this Government seems to lack them. Budgets would be the right way to transform this reality, the most negative aspects of it, or at least try to do so. But in parallel reality Urkullu-Confebask the priority seems to be that the rich no longer pay taxes. Throughout the budget debate EH Bildu has held three clear principles. First, we express our willingness to engage in real negotiations with the Government on these budgets, in order to try to improve them. We were talking about leaving our comfort zone, abandoning the comfort of what was known to explore the possibility of agreements, without remaining in the global disqualification of a budget that could have been rejected simply by our formation, given its obvious shortcomings. We did so because we understand that in this country, without absolute majorities, governments must have the opportunity to dialogue with the opposition to seek agreements, and because we are not going to practice a block opposition, based on the non-systematic, but rather want to develop constructive action, the meaning of which is not to a priori oppose everything the Government does, but to try to be useful in improving things and people's lives. And that means that some initiatives will have to be rejected, even firmly, and in other cases the possibilities of agreement will have to be explored. In addition to raising that sincere desire for dialogue, our second premise was the need for fiscal reform. The budget offers a nominal increase of 1.2% to 11,059 million. According to the INE, last year inflation rose by 1.5% in this community, and GDP grew by 3.1. In relation to these data, we have come to the conclusion that budgets lose both purchasing power and relative weight in the economy. That is, they go in the opposite direction of what should happen in a developed country. The problem lies in the failure of the current fiscal policy, which raised 544 million less than expected. Faced with this reality, there are two positions: that of the Finance Adviser, Mr Azpiazu, when he says "This is what there is", and that we will have an adjusted budget until 2020, or that of EH Bildu, shared in our view with a broad social majority, when we say that we must make a profound tax reform. Only this second vision is realistic and responsible. Next year we're going to have to pay 300 million more in debt. The deficit limit will be reduced to 0,3 %, which will mean another 200 million less. Without including the effect of inflation, in 2018 we will start with 500 million less than in 2017, almost 5% less in the budget. Tell me then what it is to be realistic, to give green light to these budgets, hiding the problems until next year, chronising the lack of resources, or to suggest that we should also debate this year on income? The third function which EH Collect put on the table was to reorganize the expense. You refused that too. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. EAJ told us not to, not at all. And I'm talking about the PNV because it's the only voice in this government. The PSOE has enough to digest the passage from it is not to Rajoy itself is to Rajoy. Yes to Rajoy in Madrid, and yes to Rajoy as budget partner in Gasteiz. He said that the PNV has told us no to all our proposals. He did not want to negotiate with EH Bildu because he was secretly negotiating in Madrid with the PP. He did not want to commit to a tax reform, because Confebask arrived and ordered it to stop. And they did not want to negotiate the reordering of spending because, as a result of the secret pact with the Madrid People's Party, they had a commitment that this party would sign a blank cheque for them in exchange for not knowing which counterparts, but that in any case those counterparts could be defined as unrecognizable, because the PNV does not confess them. I do not know if the support for Rajoy's budgets by the PNV is already closed, but it is obvious that it is on the table, and it is likely (probably) that the PNV will give way to the cut of 13 billion that Montoro has announced it will apply to the citizenship of the Spanish State, among which for the moment, unfortunately, and until we do not remedy it, also we and we find ourselves. With this decision, the PNV would not only become an accomplice to these cuts, but would also give stability to a government that was ravaged by the vast majority of Basque society. It is normal that in the PNV they are nervous and resort to strambotic arguments to justify an agreement with the PP that is unjustifiable to the majority of society. The whole country knows that the events have been as I have told them. All the people, all the press, everyone. That is why I ask you to try to justify your decisions without resorting to lies or disqualification; to stop inventing cartoons with culebrón dye, which describe the poor PNV forced by EH Bildu to agree with the PP even against his will, because of the perfidious ELA. Stop lying 'cause it's ugly. And besides lying, when everyone knows they're lying, it puts them in a ridiculous position, Mr. Ortuzar and Mr. Mediavilla. Berriz diot, badakit zaila de la justifikatzea PPrekin egindako akordio bat, bathe zuzen zabiltzatela youte baduzue, defendatu ezazue argiki. They defend that their bet is on the party of cuts, corruption, denial of the rights of this people. They defend that they are with the only party, together with the French National Front, that criticizes the disarmament process sponsored by the peacemakers. They argue that they rely on a party that has irresponsibly used xenophobia in the political debate, by the hand of Maroto and his epigons. They defend that they agree with the party of Bárcenas and the Gürtel, with the party of labor reform. Defend what you do, but please don't lie. There were possible and better options, but you picked PP and it was because you wanted to. It was your political decision. EH Bildu tried to focus the debate on budgets by emphasizing overcoming its main shortcomings. We put on the table the essential tax reform that broadened the collection base, to give the Government the resources necessary to develop public policies for the provision of services and economic promotion. For the general collection of money, which is anticipated by taxation to 2017, was 18% of the raw internal product. In 2017, it's 20 percent. I mean, we collect less and less. The tax strike is under seven points of the average of EAE Europe. In the distribution of wealth, it is becoming extremely disturbing. In 2009, the works were half of the raw internal procedure. In 2013, 49; 2015, but in 46. That is to say, the majority is becoming poorer and poorer. And it's no use to say that if the cake increases, we'll all get the better. That's not true. The share which the majority receives, though it increases, is less and less, and this must be corrected by the prosecution. The whole and relative weight of the societate tax descends, and if we were to be placed in the rank of Europe, in proportion as this tax presupposes, 670 million more. The prosecutor fraud is 2,000 million euros, 100 times as big as the fraud in social traffic. But we don't see any suggestions here that lawyers, doctors or firms don't know where to scratch. EH Collect has made public the columns of the tax-reforms: a profound reform over the social tax-heavy, the reform of the physical revenues, increase the progress of the higher revenues, increase the tax upon wealth, and increase the struggle against the prosecutor by fraud. We hope that the treaty with PP should not be an insurmountable obstacle to this people (not that the EH Collector, or EAJ, is necessary to this people), is not a treaty with PP. On the other hand, EH Bildu called for a broad reordering of expenditure to give priority to the promotion of industry and employment, the strengthening of public services and social protection. The refusal of the PNV to even talk about these issues has forced us to turn these proposals into amendments. There have been 294 amendments tabled by our training, with a total value of EUR 607 million, of which 177 relate to movement of consignments, 80 to commitment appropriations, and 350 to the reorientation of resources for VAD towards a plan for the renewal and transfer of infrastructure. The debate on the partial amendments will give us an opportunity to discuss these proposals in more detail, and we will also look into the technical analysis of the draft submitted by the Government, but I will then move on to the main ideas put forward by EH Bildu, which have not been taken into account. Job creation, both in the public and private sectors, has been the real priority for our training. On the one hand we were talking about recovering 1,200 jobs in sectors as important as health or education, starting to reverse the cut in almost 6,000 jobs that have suffered from these public services in recent years. We also propose a green employment plan, together with a strategy for the transition to renewable energy. We believe that the strengthening of industry is essential for the generation of employment, also in the private sphere, and therefore we propose that the fund for industrial investment be launched and that it bet on the development of the most disadvantaged regions, two old claims of EH Bildu that the Government claims to assume in its programme but that it has forgotten to include in the budget. We cannot ignore the issue of R & D, given the worrying developments in this area in recent years. Investment in R & D in the CAPV takes several years, three consecutive years of declines. Of the 276 European statistical units known as NUTS 2, one of which is the CAPV, there are 38 regions that exceed 3% investment, while this community is lost, almost 100. It is not fair to say that the research budget is increased by 5%, an increase which, by the way, the adviser of the department that has the competences focused on this topic has not known or wanted to disaggregate this parliamentarian in response to a written question (from where do these increases and the totals offered by the Government come from). It is necessary to go beyond that. It is necessary to articulate a dynamic to tune in all the socio-economic synergies needed to achieve the objective of investing 3% of GDP in R & D. It is strategic, we play a role in the future, and in that regard we have tabled an amendment that proposes to activate a governance model to achieve that goal. EH Collector proposes also the measures for improving education and health-like public services: to improve the installations, to increase the personal templates, as has been said before to increase the templates, to increase the wait lists, to reduce the payment of the bottles, or to improve EHU's finance. We proclaim a great deal of research and education, and then we have university as we have it, half drowned in serious financial problems. In the social protection area, we also suggested that the government should guarantee incomes, if we didn't connect to the minimum wage, the reduction of 6,5%. I'd raise my own pensions, like the help of social distress, and strengthen the housing policies. In conversations with the government, we haven't been asked where to get money for these investments. They didn't even ask us. We didn't ask, because we made it clear that, according to the government's negotiation, there was no chance of moving a single game of budget. All we had was a small economic sum of limited corrections to make our position stick. But we want to make it clear that, not only can we get more income, but that whatever it is can be spent differently. Although we are not interested in the government, we believe that we ought to speak plainly to society. We have to say that the EH gathering contributions, besides the improvement of the budget, were economically compatible. We believe, for instance, that it can cost less security by placing the budgets of this department at 2013. Other departments have the budget for the previous events, and they still work. The unlike is a positive change that the security field has known, because it reduces the delinkence for years and increases its security recovery. On the other hand, in areas where reductions have places, there is a remarkable loss of service. We can and must renegotiate debt, billions that generate a large amount only in terms of interest. It makes no sense that a community that is issuing negative interest-rate bonds is paying interest-rate debts from another era. They could save at least 20 million – and this is a very prudent figure – if a systematic renegotiation process were to be put in place, and if the debt for which higher interest is being paid is to be replaced. It is also necessary to abandon the policies of gas exploitation linked in one way or another to fracking, in order to embark fully on a dynamic of transition towards renewable energies. It is also necessary to abandon questionable and questionable works and infrastructures, in order to focus on those whose realization gives rise to greater agreement. You can save in private security, in propaganda, in private software, in high offices. A significant amount of resources can be released to the real priority areas. It can be done, and EH Bildu has done so in his amendments, empirically demonstrating that it is possible to improve, and much, this budget, even without increasing revenue. Azkenerako utziko had abject handiko sledding audiary ematen diogun treatera. EH Bilduren aburuz, AHTa akats ekonomiko eta ekologikoa da, partakatzen ez dogun hatuua. Horrela, gure zuzenketan beronen behin-behineko geldialdia eskatzen dugu. We propose to establish a moratorium on VAD, an infrastructure on which neither the most enthusiastic of its defenders can claim that it is urgent, since its theoretical justification, the mid-distance connections, are not yet built or have the face of becoming engaged in the short term. The moratorium on construction should be complemented by an infrastructure pact with the State, a finalist departure by finalist departure, a management order by management order. Possible, legal and better. An agreement that would only depend on the political will of the parties, and that could put an end to the state of abandonment in which some of the main state-owned infrastructures of our land are found, always within the framework of a process of transfer of them. Instead of making a train for the rich, subsidized with money of all, we think that it is priority to renew the infrastructures that improve the life of the majority and contribute to facilitate the economic performance of this community: underground tracks, steps at a safe level, modernized stations, improved and coordinated airports, more efficient and integrated ports in their surroundings... A whole series of improvements that should culminate in the full transfer of these infrastructures, an issue widely demanded by this society. I think it's proven that this budget had an alternative. An alternative to the proposals we've made for negotiation. The proposals that have been rejected to plunge with PP into a doubtful agreement. The proposals of the Collecting EH, not only true and possible, were useful in improving the basic parts of public policy. So real and possible that, for once in this year, it was found that the usual failure based on realism has been pushed aside, and that it has been found to justify the agreement with PV, which has been made with PP. We said that to agree the budgets the PNV could look to the social majority of the country, or look to Madrid and to the right. The PNV has chosen to look to Madrid and to the right. Let us hope that this agreement with the aroma of a great coalition will not be the beginning of a strategic decantation. After the elections, we proposed to the PNV to form a broad-based government to face the challenges that our country must face immediately, the most important of which is to build a new political status based on the right to decide. We were told no. They chose the PSOE. We have now proposed to improve the budget and ensure its viability...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u4	Finishing up...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u5	(Bai, lovezen ari naz.) ... its viability in future years through tax reform, and we have been told no. They've chosen the PP. A discussion of content, a real political agreement, and not a bazaar bargain are needed to agree with EH Bildu, but the PNV is more comfortable looking for crutches than partners. That's why you resort to the easy deal with parties with emergencies. That's short-term looking. I don't know what kind of country wants to build the PNV with the PSOE and the PP. Certainly not a free and sovereign Euskal Herria. They may have no intention of building a country, and they only aspire to remain in the watchtower of their institutional power, negotiating for this with the Spanish political and economic power. We live in a country, and with this I conclude...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u6	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u7	Yeah, I'm on my way. We live in a country where, fortunately or unfortunately, no matter how clumsy and tense the political climate is, we can always say that it was worse a few years ago. After this debate, EH Bildu therefore looks calmly to the future. We don't give anything for impossible, no relationship by route, no bridge by broken. To-day, in order to give the means to these budgets to which political alliance has been made, although this people will take a strong backward step, nothing will end. The hands of the collected EH continue long enough to be able to build popular traditions, so that we must go the same place as our fellow-travellers. Our last port is a free village of free citizens, an independent and just Basque people. We accept the Bidaides, we want the travelrs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u8	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. On the other hand, representing the Basque Potula Group, Lord Damborena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u9	Thank you very much, Madam President. The truth is that I could not say anything, because it is clear that our models of society are absolutely different and diverging, what happens is that there are some words that you use that steal from others that we really defend them, and not you. You defend the primacy of the public and the obligation of citizens for everything, or the prohibition of citizens in everything. And you can apply it to whatever you want. And our model is very different, not based on territories. Our model is based on people, who are the subjects of rights. Our model is based on the individual freedom of the people, on the private initiative, in which the Administration, in this case the Basque Government, must be at the service of these principles (that is our model); that the best expression of individual freedom is to have a stable and quality work... That's where people are free, when they have their own resources, and not when they're subsidized. I know you guys like the other system. Not us. We bet that people are really free, that they have their own income, that they don't depend on any administration. That's what we like, not the equality of everyone below. Equality, from above. And we obviously defend the freedom of choice, which is part of the individual freedom of people. Freedom of choice in education, in health... Whatever you want. And that's our model, which differs a lot from yours, and that's why, obviously, we're in one place and we're in another. And it is the Government that must guarantee equal opportunities, and it is not taxation that redistributes wealth. It is the Government that must redistribute wealth, not taxation. And that in taxation you pay the richest, those who earn the most pay the most, and that it is progressive... so, welcome all of you to the club of the Spanish Constitution of the year 78, which already collects it and is mandatory, and it has been doing so since that year, since the first IRPF, the first law of the IRPF in Spain, was introduced. Of course, fiscal policy must guarantee the welfare state, but it must guarantee the freedom of citizens. It cannot be confiscatory, as you applied in part in Gipuzkoa when you ruled. And it must also promote what we have told you is the main reason for individual freedom, which is work. It must encourage the creation of jobs, it must encourage savings, it must encourage investment, because that is what creates jobs. It is not you, or the government, who will create employment. Employment is created by entrepreneurs. And, therefore, our model there is also very different. And when we asked the government that it had to choose a model and a partner, we meant it very seriously. And when you tell us about debt, Mr Casanova, we have to tell you that we do want to be in the European Union and that the European Union is moving forward, and we want to be in the euro and that the euro is moving forward, and we want to meet the requirements for deficit, yes. And even if we were not in the euro, and if we were not in Europe, we would continue to say that it is good to meet the deficit requirements. Because I'm sure you don't owe your house because you do, right? Sure, no. And you don't like paying interest to banks because you do, do you? People in your house adjust expenses to income, of course. Well, administrations must do the same. Administrations cannot spend what they cannot afford, because in the end citizens suffer from this policy. And obviously our model there too is very different. And I have to tell you one thing, too. You, who are so fond of government debt, aren't you? (it seems that we do not pay the citizens, the debts of the governments), do not worry, that you already know that the most important part of this budget, of this government and of which it comes, and of which it comes, is the payment of the debt. That is the most important item, 10% of the budget, and you intend to tell us that it is not important to increase that item. So listen, every year, what we are interested in and we would prefer to see that item decrease, and that tax revenues would be used to finance other things. That's why our model is very different there too. And, of course, the best social policy is not the one that reflects an increase in expenditure on unemployment or in the GIR. The best social policy is the opposite. This is where, as jobs are created and there is more employment, unemployment costs fall and GIR costs fall. That a budget reflects much more money in those items for us is bad, because it is the reflection of a very bad policy in job creation. But you, of course, what have you raised? You are asking us to increase the GIR by 15%. That's what we've been asked about in your budget. That is EUR 45 million more, which, by the way, has been forgotten to say where they come from to pay for them, because that does not come from their amendments. Sure! And then you tell us what it is that, well, the 350 million of the AVE, so, we're going to spend it on something else. You know it's not possible; that if they're not for the EVA there's not 350 million. That is why the whole range of amendments that you have told us that you have tabled and that you are financing against that heading knows that it is false. That's fake! These are false amendments, without funding. You know it, we know it, we all know it. Therefore, you have presented us with amendments and budgets that obviously do not go where we propose, do not reflect the priority that we have, which is support for job creation – and that is support for businesses, which are the ones that create jobs – and do not go in the sense of supporting families, which is what we support and which is reflected in the agreement that we have reached. And, Mr. Casanova, this thing about you asking for respect here and not insulting yourself... I think he's thrown us into our group several free insults, I don't know why. But, look, "the party that opposes peace"... It's not in our group where people with a criminal record for terrorism sit. It's not in our group, eh! No, no. Our group has been victimized. It's yours where you sit. When you talk to me about "peace artisans"... Look, peace and disarmament artisans... The Civil Guard has the gold medal. You guys put it on a long time ago. And I have to tell you that when you agree you have doubts (if you agree, if you do not agree, if you do not agree, if politically convenient, if it is not convenient...), but after listening to you I think we have been right in full. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u10	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u11	Thank you, President. Lehendakari, counselors, counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. These are the first budgets of the new legislature, and the Basque Socialists support them because they are the economic instrument that, together with the policies agreed between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, will enable us to support economic recovery by creating stable and quality employment. And they are also budgets for solidarity and social cohesion; budgets that ensure the maintenance of public policies and social protection, and that aim to show the commitment and responsibility of this bipartite government to society, prioritizing the social agenda and equal opportunities for Basque citizens. We are against the amendment to the whole of Bildu because it means losing this year 2017 a valuable time, when the strategic and political priorities and challenges for this legislature are already outlined in a government agreement and also in a programme whose development and implementation through concrete action plans cannot wait, Mr Casanova, for some to get rid of the margarita whether or not I intend to negotiate. This amendment to the whole of Bildu does not involve alternative budgets that propose another economic and social model that is different from what is currently being proposed in the debate. The amendment proposes the return of government budgets on the basis of assumptions and statements that we do not share at all. And not because we have succumbed to self-satisfaction and believe that we are in the happy Arcadia. No, no, These are budgets that from their origins consolidate social rights that have cost a lot to conquer, and new forms of protection against new phenomena of risk of exclusion, such as the right to housing or the attention to cases of energy poverty. This is proof that political constancy is a great value, because the budgetary agreements signed by the socialists the last parliamentary term today are, in these accounts, a de facto reality. It seems to us that there are compelling reasons why this budget should be implemented as soon as possible and that the effective development of the Euskadi 2020 government programme for this parliamentary term should be put on hold. That is why, Mr Casanova, we reject the amendment to the whole of it. Because it is not true that strong public policies have not been raised. Because it is not true that there is a lack of strategy and that what it proposes is more of the same and all very predictable, except for the flexibility of Europe in meeting the deficit and the hole that was generated in the revenues of 2016. I don't remember who was saying it, but I think it's very right to have heard you in your speech, Mr. Casanova, because it's one thing to load the inks in the arguments, and it's another thing to throw the tinker into the arguments. We are against the amendment to the whole of Bildu, because a budgetary extension would delay and would make impossible the implementation of policies, plans and legal reforms that are essential to tackle the exit from the crisis with determination. Policies such as the Framework Programme for Employment and Economic Recovery, which seeks to reduce the unemployment rate below 10% in Euskadi, which is a country strategy with, among other things, a specific line of support for youth employment to give employment opportunities to 20,000 young people, and which, as a matter of urgency, has been put forward a quarter. And because we cannot lose, Mr Casanova, not a single minute in responding to the needs of citizens, that is why we are going to debate this year not a budget, but two. Two budgets. Bildu's amendment marks the Government's long-term loss of vision, and nothing further from the truth. Socialists share with Basque nationalists a government program for this legislature that will undoubtedly have effects not only in the short term, not only in the medium term, but also beyond 2020. The Socialists have been betting on the deal with different people to get the country out of the way, but it is time that Bildu already applied the story and made strategic long-sighted decisions. What in its day were pacts in this House transferred to socialist amendments, today are already government commitments, today are consolidated budgetary commitments. The socialist amendment on energy poverty has allowed 2,810 families not to be cut off from the supply of electricity or water. Today the Housing Act and its effective development is guaranteed by the budget project that has been presented, after 610 families have accessed a housing that they did not have before the year 2016, thanks to the avoidance of the return of previous budget accounts. And now, Mr Casanova, it is possible to cater for new groups, and to allocate 80% of the budgets to rental housing. The research pact, which called for a 5% increase, is not only to be drawn from this draft budget, but also has a 6% increase. For socialists it is a pride to be able to say that what we committed ourselves to, what we were able to look for points according to other groups, we have transformed it into tangible realities for people. And that is why, frankly, it is difficult for us to understand that those who took part in that consensus effort in this House will be cut off from the budget agreement, precisely when we have succeeded in joining other political groups and have also raised it to government commitment. That is why, and not because we have fallen into self-congratulation, we are not going to support the amendment to the whole of Bildu. We do understand that those who are asking for the refund of budgets today would have liked to go further. Wow! And so do we, and I have no doubt that the Nationalist Party too! That is why we Socialists have decided to influence, Mr Casanova, as part of the government, on those decisions that are taken in 2017 and which are taken over the course of these four years, and above all on which we must adopt to deal with the coming decades. And that's why budgets are needed. We have decided to lay the foundations for the present to also address the future, for those long lights that we have missed in the past. Because in November we Socialists did not close a governance agreement thinking about how to go through these four years, but about how we built on the transformation that was pending in Euskadi, so that the next generations could continue to have a public health, a public education and a social protection that does not abandon anyone, that does not leave anyone in the gutter. And that we can promote an economy that generates quality jobs and opportunities for those who do not have them today. From the opposition we were able to prioritize the social agenda on the institutional agenda, offering a highly needed stability framework in a very convulsive environment, here in Euskadi, Spain and the world. And this is the key to what we do. Let no one feel excluded and alienated from what the Government does on account of either their feelings or their identity. And we believe that there are those who still, half a year after that appointment at the polls last September, are waiting to be placed on the unprecedented stage that opens in Euskadi. At that point we have understood the Bildu amendment, but at Euskal Herria Bildu, more than an amendment to the whole, what we see is an amendment full of last-minute excuses, the minute in which they felt the vertigo about their position as the first opposition group, which looks at Elkarrekin Podemos as a reproach. It is not understood in any other way that a month ago they made a realistic reading of the accounts, and that they built a whole discourse around the need for fiscal reflection – in which we are already committed, and you know it – and that today you have found another excuse that is not what they use in the General Councils of Álava, nor the position they adopted in the City Hall of Vitoria. Bildu, despite his institutional experience, does not see how to be the essential group of the opposition, or how to differentiate in that opposition. Socialists continue to believe that from the opposition one can influence, but not rule. And we do not understand that Bildu does not feel that it is serious to negotiate a compromise on taxation and the fight against fraud; that it does not feel that it is serious to negotiate commitments on shared public policies. In any case, I have to tell you that the Socialists regret this situation. We regret that the calculations of partisan strategies, outside the interests of the citizenry, have come into play, in the negotiation of the Basque budgets, and have annulled it as far as Bildu is concerned. The Socialists hope that all the public policies that will be possible with these accounts can be improved with constructive and realistic contributions from the other groups, especially because major reforms that are pending need to be addressed. The amendment to the whole of Bildu and those of all of them are legitimate and respectable, but I believe that Bildu has not been able to get on the train of opportunity that is opening up in Euskadi. Beyond the numerical needs to carry out budgets, a non-legislative proposal or any initiative, the Basque Socialists reiterate our express commitment to open a new time of agreements between different, to address the great challenges of the country. And, Mr Casanova, the difficulty of the Basque socialists is in the digestion of their speech, in the speech of the excuse, in the speech of the lack of courage of Bildu, in the lack of prioritization of the interests of Basque citizenship in the face of the party interests of Bildu in the opposition. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Monsieur Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u13	On the 17th of February, here during the whole meeting, Alfonso Alonso had an intervention, he asked a question, and the President had given him an answer in the budget. And those who were there said, "This is done." Our reading was political: The spokesman of the fifth force here explains a disposition. It says, "Hey, I'd like to take the presupus, I'd like to make a way with you." That was the disposition. I won't say that if we'd agreed with you, for example, to-morrow Rajoy wouldn't have accepted his Presupusts. What I have now to do is that if your votes were united by the Podemos and the Pogal Party, these presupus would return to the government again, tomorrow Rajoy wouldn't have his minister's council, he wouldn't accept the Presuputies. Why the P.P.s make a political bet: "Let us accept them, not directly, at least, let us not prevent them from accepting the Basque Presupus, otherwise we are in Spain." That's a political reading. And EH Collect, if he doesn't have that in mind... And we told you, we told you, what could happen, and that we had options with you, but that they had their limits, as we shall see afterwards. Then Popular Party played its part. He's in the middle of the square. From fifth to fifth force he speaks directly to PNV or PSOE. And other political forces, who ought to play their part, have said, "Well, we've come out of this region of de confort, a la lselva de la negociación." But what you don't say is that you said about the RUMRA, "We got out of the area of confort" but what you didn't say is that you took the coming-back bill. Go, just in case, and then calm down, we'll be back. They were still out there... You mentioned earlier that we're looking for excuses. That's the political analysis. Whether they've been unionized or not. It's not our words. When he's told me that I won't take the previous sentence yesterday, it's easier for me to condition the left parties. They admit they've gone to terms with it. I don't want to give it any importance, why every one here has his own life and his direction, and what is conditioned by it, everyone will know, but it's true that some of them have a special occupation. You say "intelligent," paralysia, and that we do nothing, and that this government already has its objectives in view. I'd ask you if we're right in the main challenges and this town goes out like a rocket with everyone's work. But you mention the negotiation process. And I'm not going to tell you what Bilt did now in the Gipuian Disputation. We'll change it. What did PNV do in Gipuz? We had a clean opportunity to get the big deal, as you know. But this was not the case: He took command of them. What happened at the first preview, and the second and the third time? If you want to mark the theory, you have to make an offer to the person in charge. And we made that offer. And he got two of the three presupuests out of our agreement and one with the Socialist Party agreement. And the fourth went to the platform, where there were full corrections. But in the second place, the Jelt Party has no full-correction, and presents to it a negotiation process. If you had done that, there might have been another frame here. But I'm surprised that you're in politics and that you don't think of PP's alibi. That surprises me. You say it has three bases of full corrections. One was that you wanted to get out of this area of negotiation, de confort, and I think we've all started a bit of fun. I don't think we're in trouble to make a deal. I'd ask a question, open up like this, and I think it's going to go away with time, you think it's possible for us to get a deal in the presugents if we don't leave it out, at least while Y's in force? Is that possible? We'd leave that with the Batu in its old days, as though we were having a record, on the left side. But at this moment, during the negotiation between us and you, while this subject is in it, I find it difficult. And this is certain, that when you are in the mean, you make a certain exercise, rather than a presuspectary exercise, I think it is more a exercise of the liberty of expression, why the things you propose have no bounds. But you mention a subject, and it's the prosecutor's. And as you know, we at least came to a minimum agreement in Aran: Evaluate the current situation, and look into the future for the measures to take around the prosecution. And I think that we have here, with the greater part of the political parlamentary force that can be common to us, but a way to do it together. Even in the opposite strategy of fraud. Maybe the knot of Y that I've been talking about disappears, but let's take both issues. One, you said the fundraiser. It appears in the text that if there were a certain indifference between us, or a sloth; "Well, they don't even try to protect their income." No? And then there's the scam. Well, it looks like at the corner, on the other side, there's two billion on the other side, and we don't look at them or take them. And I think it all makes a kind of thesis, puts a thesis in society, and it's not fair. It's not fair because it's not true, because you know why it's as well as you do what it is to do against fraud, why you also had that experience in Diet. And the files were opened because some of the files are already public, and now they have lost and had to return with interest, and in the end they end up in courts. But let's not say in front of the crowd, there's 2,000 million every year, and they don't pick up or collect, because they don't want to, because they're their friends." This thesis is very pelligious. Two. As for money, the year of 2017, however false, is the second year in the census of the treasury. In 2007 we had the income of 13772 million euros, and this time that is to meet among the Basque institutions is prevision, 13.500. Second, second! Its handling is the key in politics. But there's no such laziness or carelessness, saying, "Well, what for? There's the money, but why should we pick it up? "No, no, there's need. And it's true that in all this story, there's a piece of paper, more passive than active, because the stocks are responsible for the funding. But OCT is there too, and I'm sure you can do it too. But I'm running out of time. Like the rent tax for physical people. Why did you throw them out today, and they're not precise facts, but they're just to see what we're talking about. Well, it's 37% of all the funding, and we have as many as 4A, and we don't have the others? But to see how we manage this social jurisdiction. 4.840 billion. And the tax collectors, 75%, that is to say, 75% of the tax rates pay 30%, the other way 25% pays 75%. If you want more details: 10% earns 45%, 10 pays 45% of the total. And, on the other hand, among all these tax collectors, from the bottom, 50% pays 10%. My question is: Is there any progress in this picture? Don't you see that the nature of equity is remarkable? Well, that's what we have. Maybe it's better? I'm sure it's true, but why don't we just give the contrary impression? One more thing. You say "the gift pig." Well, I don't know, it's 6-7% of the neoliberic policy. It was once 13%, 2007 and 2008 those crazy years, but it wasn't real. Well, and perhaps we must have a debate there whether the Subtractions are applied or not. But I don't think our positions should be far away. The tax of wealth and great fortune. You don't talk about this anymore, why making a little difference in the gym, abolishing wrongs, debuting has gone up to 24%. It's gone down some integrityes and up to 24%. And therefore plans against fraud may be proposed both in the principal assemblies and here also. How long do I have to finish? Seven seconds? This state of defense is very good, but there's only a short time left. Anyway, what I mean is, politically, we don't dream and we try to tell the truth. Popular party made an offer, we missed a vote. And with that analysis, I don't know if you agree, but don't you think that if the Poptular Party voted with you today, then tomorrow Rajoy wouldn't even present presupuesto? I don't know if you have a chance to accept it, but what I have to do is if the Popular Party did, Rajoy wouldn't introduce presupureto tomorrow. And this bacteria can't be considered by EH Collect, if he wants to vote for his negotiations? Why should I know that if we had made an agreement with you, Popular Party would still have made an attempt in Madrid.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u14	Thank you, Mr. Egibar...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u15	But you should've considered the other dealer at politics time and the subjugates and their equipment. There are no arguments to hide, we openly explain what we have to explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u16	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Passing on the answers, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u17	I'll start answering Mr. Damborena because the other one's so easy, I think, hasn't read the corrections this year. But even what I said here today, it looks like he didn't hear it. But just a couple of highlights. The great supporters of debt here, of debt for debt, those who have generated the debt that this community currently has, it is you, the government that you supported, that of Mr Patxi López. If all the debt this community has comes from there, from the moment you were supporting the government! Then we would talk about the conditions under which that Government was generated and why it did not have the capacity to generate resources otherwise, but the debt is itss. Another question. Indebtedness is done according to the possibilities that one has to respond to, indeed. Except in our case, we are indebted according to the possibilities of Spain. Because this community has the capacity, in a solvent way and without putting anything at risk, to assume a much higher level of debt to respond to urgent needs. To be indebted in proportion to the possibilities, yes: to our possibilities, not to those of the Spanish State, which is punished by Europe for the negligence of its economic management and that of the government that preceded them. And I also have to tell the Socialist Party that it also has a piece of paper. The PNV has a piece of paper, but that of the PSOE... because without eating it or drinking it it has to defend something in which they and they have been able to participate very little. You have been invited by stone to a negotiation that has been managed outside this House – outside this country, as I said – and in which you have not been able to take part at all. And now it is up to them to swallow the toads of yes is yes (yes to Rajoy in Madrid, and yes to Rajoy in Gasteiz); the toads that, you who are supposed to be a left-wing party that make us statements to build social alternatives, instead of being together with Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu aligned, so your traveling companions are the People's Party and the PNV, that is, the right. What do you guys paint there? Have they changed sides, or have they made themselves right, or are they out of place... Is that what you're talking about? But that's your problem, not EH Bildu's problem. And M. Egibar, well, it's time to admit he's been having a point of honesty today, which some of his party have not done, and at least you've said honestly, "PPP'd given us." Well, that's it, start over and don't tell me the movie about ELA, and don't start telling stories. No, no! PP used to give you the vote. So you don't care, you don't care about PP, EH Collect... You don't care. Then you say you have a strategic perspective, but you don't care about budgets, economic policies and government support... You don't care. Is that the strategic visual? PP requires you not to raise the tax, and we ask you to upload it. You don't care! What's your exam, your needs exam? You guys don't care? Assembling with EH can make a deal, and the problem is that we stay at our own conforts, the problem is that we make deals, that we demand political content, political content! This isn't the one that's going through here and who's offering himself the cheapest, making love to me. That's not a town. That's not a strategic vision. And at least you accepted it today. Zer egingo two zerga politicakarekin? We have a tax advisor who is, we could say, the strange case of Dr. Azpiazu and Mr. Hyde: he is a tax reformer trapped in the body of a tax advisor of the PNV. (Barreak) I say this with affection, because the only thing that can be highlighted from the contacts we have had is, therefore, cordiality. So, he, when asked, "Do we have to do a tax reform?" - "Yes." They ask him: "To collect more?". "Of course!", that's what he answers. Sure! Of course! Tax reform is needed to collect more, because we collect insufficiently. And, therefore, if a tax reform is to be made to collect more, why have you not agreed on the budgets with whom you propose to make a tax reform to collect more, but with whom you propose not to make a tax reform, block a tax reform? Why did they come by and offer themselves? Is that your strategic vision? Is that your country leadership? Of course, and in any case, at least they've gone to the point. I mean, you've left me a little out of place, because I came to answer a little bit to the speech you've been holding so far, which you didn't want, which is that Bildu has forced you, that you've come a little out of your comfort zone... Man, I don't know if we've gotten a little or a lot out of our comfort zone, but you've stayed on the couch. They stayed on the couch smoking a cigar, and you just recognized it: "And these came and told me they gave it to me...". I don't think they gave it to him either. I don't believe it. I don't believe it. And there are pages and pages of newspapers that are describing the relationship, that are adjectivating it: flirting, thawing... I think we're already at a stage after that, the budgets have already been supported... It was Rajoy who announced in Brussels that they were going to support the budgets! So, how are we not going to think that this is being cooked elsewhere and is being cooked according to other interests! If in the end the debate is almost over, it is almost over, because it is so obvious what has happened...! It's so obvious what happened... - No, no, no, And I have said in the speech expressly "I don't know if it's agreed" (I don't know what I'm saying), "I don't know if it's already agreed on Rajoy's budgets," probably not, but the sequence of events that leads us to say, from what is said and from what is induced by what is done, is that there is actually a process for it. Then you will have to decide, as a country, where you want to go, what economic project you have, what fiscal model you have, and depending on that you will have to look for allies, because, depending on where you want to go, you can go with one or the other. This is not an auction! It is that, when we tell you that you have no strategic vision, that you are conservative, that you give as much chance as I can, so long as the Basque Nationalist Party is in the highest levels of institutional power, it is that you are proving it! His speech shows it to me: the People's Party passes here... , pact with the People's Party. And EH Bildu, what's going on, asking me for impossible things? No, but he's asking for things! What negotiations process has there been between us? You said, "We didn't come out of our site." We made it! It was very easy for us to keep the same speech for the past few years. We have people who ask us to do this: "PNV's nothing, not even water! "I don't know. It would have been very easy to do so, and very easy because the budgets are bad, because incomes aren't enough, and because the policies that make these projects and preventives aren't enough. And the prosecution isn't enough and it's ruined: 500 million less. And that's obvious. And it would be very simple for us to say, "Let's forget it, Marianno, stay! "I don't know. But we said no, we'd try this year. And we have proved it. You're saying it's possible to collect EH and have settlements on PNV's budget. This is not a rhetorical question, that is the exact question, and if the answer is, an empirical answer; Yes, it is possible. He became a Araban. If possible, there must be will. Claros, at Aran, had other wants, and the negotiation was more productive from PNV. Not here. Not here. And that's why I tell you what kind of journey you want to travel, you have to choose your companion. And we're ready! We're ready to discuss the budget. Don't give it to me! And it's not just how many votes we have, not even the number of votes. It's a question of dignity. You need to talk about the policy to get to terms with the EH, you need to talk about the content. We can't make a decanter or a present with us: "I'll give you either here or there, and you protect me... "I don't know. No, no. If we talk about budgets, let's talk about budgets, and we'll find a deal about budgets and economy. That's our gig. But you don't seem to want to move. You're very comfortable, and it just happened that PP is in the corner, that every poll says it's drawn, that the majority of this society doesn't want to see, and wants a little protagonism. And PP's all right with him here, but most of all he's got to do with the situation in Madrid, these guys had bigger needs. What a coincidence! He says he wanted to close the agreement for three or four days, after joining us, and says that, here, in a press conference, for three or four days, they want an arrangement for the next Wednesday. On Thursday there was a vote about the porters at Madrid and PNV voting for the staff of 700 euskal employees and replacing them with the employees who will be on the market. And just the day before yesterday, PNV wanted to have an earring, to protect the budget by PP, and then to vote with P.P. That's what skis are like. What kind of negotiations? When we sat down with Sub-Azu at the second meeting in the morning, we were going to the meeting and we were listening on the radio that Mr. Erkoa said there was a frame of agreement with PP. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, There is a framework in agreement with the PP. The same day we were sitting with Mr. Azpiazu in the afternoon, you were saying it in the morning. And we told Azpiazu and Azpiazu made a poker face. Because that's how it was. Because it was impossible, with the premises that EH Bildu put on the table, it was impossible to reach an agreement within the deadlines that Mr Azpiazu was setting for us. And if Mr Azpiazu marked those deadlines it was precisely because he had an agreement, he was certain that he would be able to meet those deadlines not through a political-budgetary negotiation with EH Bildu, but because they had tied him up somewhere else. So, I think reflection has to be done by you. We are willing to talk about things, willing to dialogue, willing to reach agreements sometimes and sometimes not, because we have our own political identity, and our social base calls on us to defend the interests to which we have committed ourselves, and even if it did not ask us to do so, it is indeed our responsibility. Sometimes it will be possible, and sometimes it will not be possible, but on our part negotiation and offers will always be based on content. If you want to settle one day with one another, another day with another, without setting a pace, without setting an address, without knowing if you want to raise taxes, lower them or raise them to the rich..., if you don't know where you want to go, then, well, deal with the first one that passes. But if you are clear that we can agree on some agreements, then look for us and they will have us there. But that's right, don't expect us to give you things. Don't expect us to give you things. Do not say that we do not leave our comfort zone or that we have a ticket back, when you have stayed, as I said before, on the couch smoking a cigar.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u18	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Passing the responses, Mr. Damborena, representing the Basque Potion Group, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u19	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Casanova, can we borrow more? I told you before that we want to be in the euro, we want to be in the European Union, and we need to meet deficit requirements. So, if you want to be in that club, you have to meet those requirements. And if you don't, say you don't want to be. Don't say we want to be but don't fulfill them, because it's not possible. I have told you that we are in favour, we want to comply, even if they are put more in Europe. Okay? Secondly, a tax reform is needed to collect more. I'm the only tax reform I know that collected the most was the one that lowered taxes in Aznar's time. Yeah. Yeah. And in the tax reform that went up taxes, for example to the sicavs, so that the rich would pay more, because little was collected, which was done here three years ago, the collections, zero. Zero. Taxes went up to collect... Zero. Why don't they apply...? What happened in England? Then we can talk about corporate tax collection. In Britain they have lowered the corporation tax, we have almost the highest in Europe, and they collect more. More than before. If we are in favour of a tax reform! But – I said earlier – it benefits citizens and can raise more because the bases are expanding, and because there are more people working. And by the way, I forgot to tell you before, that you were telling us that we agreed with Le Pen... Listen, with Le Pen, and all the ultras of left and right in Europe, you have coincided in the last legislature throughout the anti-European message. And, of course, it is not us who congratulate Donald Trump.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u20	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u21	Yes, thank you, President. Let us see, Mr Casanova, you are trying, in addition to failing the political adversary, to disregard the role played by the Socialist Party both in the composition of the government and in the negotiation. And I believe that, in the end, it has no recourse but to say "low turnout". You know it's not true, so, anyway, it's your problem. Let's see, the problem with Bildu is that he hasn't raised anything new under the sun. The problem with Bildu is that he has either left the negotiation, or he has been kicked out of the negotiation, or he has been forced out of the negotiation. No, not precisely this bench, but some other collective that is part of that social majority of which you so much boast. Of course, that's the problem. That is the problem, because we do not want to call things by their name, and we say that some have not participated in the negotiation, when others have had to leave, forced. Obligations. Let us see, the Socialists have not vetoed any political group in the negotiation, nor have we caused any political group to be forced to negotiate and agree on these budgets. I am convinced that the free and independent Euskadi that you so much acclaim and proclaim is absolutely no guarantee in these budgets. Absolutely nothing. If we were free and independent... We have fiscal reform, our own fiscal powers, and yet you blame the government for not doing everything we can to raise more, for having more revenue. What would happen to the debt limit? The same thing! Or does that deficit limit guarantee something that we are going to distribute more fairly to the parliaments and the municipalities? Well, no, and you know it as well as I do! Bildu has spent more time trying to find an excuse to get out of the negotiation than negotiating. And it has had to be others who mark that position or dissociate them from the negotiation. And we can't understand why, when there are majorities or agreements can be made, Bildu goes to the corner. They always disappear from the plane! I don't know if it's because they're looking for that protagonistism and victimism of "leave me alone," and so we can be in the opposition comfortably located without having to look – as you said – at Elkarrekin Podemos. Because in budgets – you know as well as I do – there are answers to everything. There is a response to tax reform, because it knows that a reflection is being made. There is a response to the 1,200 more jobs in education and health that you proposed, which, by the way, are already forgetting the 40,000 that you had planned for the previous legislature. I have commented on the long-term standstill shock plan under the framework programme for employment and economic recovery. The investment plan in disadvantaged areas knows that work is under way. The country agreement on R & D+i, they know it's working. The fight against job insecurity, and the same thing. The unprotection of thousands of workers..., listen, tell that union that has pulled them out of the negotiation that is sitting at the Social Dialogue Bureau, to see if we can get among all of them that there is no such unprotection and that the agreements are negotiated as they have to be negotiated. We do not see in Bildu any alternative proposal, which they say they have, and yet they tell us that they are with their hand stretched out. No, no! What they have to have is attitude. Attitude, no hand stretched out. True attitude, realistic attitude. Prove it, I think they're capable. But what happens is they don't feel like agreeing, and most of all they're very afraid to agree. You know why. Bildu renounced in the past to be part of everything that has made Euskadi progress, because he renounced to participate in the design of health care, in the design of Basque public education; he renounced to participate in the consensus of the normalization of Basque; he renounced to take part in the agreements with which our social protection system was built. With all the improvements that are needed, the Socialists, those who, in your opinion, do not take part, the Socialists, we can say that we were in all that, and that we will be in the reforms that will come. Because Bildu also now has a chance to do it. And this debate will pass, despite the doorman's speech, Mr Casanova, which you have made, the debate will pass, and when the budgetary procedure is over on 11 April, it will be time to see if some of them are left with the position lights just for them to see, or put the long lights on to see what is really needed for Euskadi in the coming decades. We have many challenges. You were the ones who did not invite the Socialist Party to negotiate any government agreement. They offered it to the lords and ladies of Elkarrekin Podemos and offered it to the Basque Nationalist Party. Not the socialists. You yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u23	At least, as we're doing our honest exercises, believe what we're saying and what we're giving you. Out of this chamber, out of this fun, nothing's been negotiated, in Madrid or anywhere. Believe it or you'll miss your next analysis. At least put that data in there. Then you mention that you don't see any strategic vision in our government. But obviously, you've read the plans, the government program... There's a program, there's plans, the tools have also started, very short time. There's a way. Not to like you... Well, all right, we'll discuss the dialectic in a perfectly legitimate way. But there's a program, there's also a career sheet. And the agreement we've made. Twenty-nine million of these fifty-nine, we've agreed on 29 points with Popular Party, %0.2 percent of the presupuest. I don't know if there's much of the strategic change, but at least look at it and we'll see the point of it in those partial corrections. I don't know whether pure or pure ideas exist. And if they exist, bad luck, right? And in politics, water must be intoxicating. Drinking. "And when you are going to join us with us, and we are with you, the water must be intoxicating." And the example I was talking about you you turned over later on, "that it's impossible, that the bargain is possible with us." I have given you a concrete example: As long as the Y project is in the budget, you see a deal with us, if we don't foam as an exception, like we did with the left? You didn't answer me. And I think that's where we have a potential problem. We have a problem, because each has had his own course in politics, in institutions, and you in other ways of fighting. There he is. And I think that, since it's going to be a strategic decision, let's consider it, too, because the years go by. And you mentioned the story that this is what others have given. Listen, "El PNV, Ortuzar creyó, a parter del accuerdo presupuestari en Ála, que podría convencer a EH Collect, y nsostros nos movimos," hasn't been told by PNV. The head of a union said so. And yesterday: "It is easier to determine the left side," said another member of ELA. And the journalist asks: "Then the Orcians are right? "He puts it in answer: "Laughter" No, that's not true. But then the Egyptians laughed at it, and laughed at it. Well, I don't confess to anyone that they can't have any influence on you or us, but they have explained that they have also a mission in this life. Looking at the future, three targets. One. People, our people must be economically strong to guarantee stable incomes. Our people must be strong. And industry has to be strong to stabilize our income. We'd like to guarantee the growth of 2,5, or %3 per year. Two. We must be effective in our public policies. Activatives. We're talking about the funding here, but we're not talking about expenses. Plus investment, investment plus expense. And we have to be effective in this, too. And three. We've got to make up for the strategic decisions as a village. And that's what we need everybody to figure out what we need to do. The only thing is that we want to keep the society of well-being here, though we are the least different people in the world that is our reality, and the people who are of the lowest social policy, that is one of our treasures, that is to be cared for. And that hasn't been in the last year with two or three decisions. It's coming from '89! And when we're done, adapt, improve, and even look into the future, we'll have to put a touch or change into the same system.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u24	Finish up, Mr. Egibar.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u25	Yeah, right now, the last one. It's just that you understand in politics, I think, because you've been spending a little time in this legislature, and especially in the art of politics, in the last decades, these work has been the work of many people for years. And looking to the future of this people, whether the different Spanish Government or the load of Spain supposes the future of this people to be checked or stopped, even in this house, for too many years, we have kept in this country many domestic offices in this country, in this country, of which you will know what it means, in many years or too many years, we have had too much domestic defect. The future will show us whether we have completely overcome this phase and are able to win the future among us all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u26	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Together the representatives of the Podemos, Lord Marsin and Hernandez, will defend the full correction. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. It has been discussed before topics in one of the speeches, and it is not an irrelevant topic that says that a government shows its true face when presenting budgets. We can debate many things in this House and not do so; we can make many statements and agree or disagree on many matters, but these budgets are the axis of the most important debates we will have during 2017. They are the place where it is decided what is priority and what is not for the Basque Government, with everything it entails for Basque citizenship as a whole. These are the debates that matter most to people in their daily lives, because here we decide the things that most directly affect their immediate future. A sign that this matters and affects people is the hunger strike of social groups that has been taking place since 24 March and with which we once again support ourselves today from this Parliament. When we talk about the budget, we know there are two sides of this. The first difference is how we spend our money and where we put our resources. But it's important to know where we get this money and who puts it more and who puts it less about our money. There are no good budgets if it is not well spent, but neither are there if we raise badly. These budgets are made up of both mistakes. They are simply the pillar of a political project that takes neither economic data nor the most relevant demands of the citizenry into consideration. They are the budgets of a government without a country project with more opportunities and less inequality. More opportunities, less inequality. The conclusion we draw is clear. Firstly, in spending, the PNV and PSE government has made a draft budget that forgets or leaves behind the main concerns of Basque society: employment and job insecurity, economic inequality, insufficient social resources, or the growing deterioration of such important pillars as education and public health. Secondly, in the collection, it is a project that is also based on greater indebtedness and not on the search for resources from those who can and do not provide the most, large companies and large capitals. The fact that direct taxes have a lower weight in the total contributions means that, year after year, the tax on the social majority is higher. And I'm going first with this question. At the same time as direct taxes are getting less and less heavy, there is still a great deal of deductions, bonuses, rebates or exemptions which are expected to stop raising more than €6 billion in 2017 from those who have the most and those who earn the most. It is intolerable that tax expenditures remain a rude way for those who have the most to avoid paying what they really owe, what they really must so that we can enter more and develop our country. The variation in income received by the Basque Government through the contributions of the deputies is almost zero, of more or less 300,000 euros to be exact. We find it unacceptable that, together with the forecast of GDP growth, the contributions of the outside parliaments do not contain changes, while the revenues received through indebtedness amount to 11.4% compared to 2016. The Government's immobilisation in this regard is very worrying. Taking a social turn in fiscal policy is not just any proposal. There is nothing more to see than the increase in inequality and job insecurity, especially if we compare it with the state of our social services. Not to undertake this reform is only understood in terms of continuing to benefit the economic elites and those who already have more, that is, against the social majorities, which is what you here call budgets, what you in Madrid call the Basque agenda (which, by the way, consists of an unprecedented exercise of imagination), which is to support the budgets of the People's Party there, and what, since they are all animated, they call Basque Country, which is as it is said "budgets tailored to the People's Party" in English, which is more or less what we have understood these weeks. I have my doubts, frankly, although I am curious that this is only going to last a year, as I read recently. The same is bad luck and the thing gets longer! We'll see about that. I will give an example of what we are proposing and why we have not been able to talk seriously about budgets this year. We cannot allow indirect taxes, which we all pay equally, to have what we have, to have year after year greater prominence in the total contributions made by the parliaments. The fact that direct taxes, which immediately tax economic capacity, have a lower weight on total contributions means that, year after year, the burden on the social majority is much heavier. Of course, corporate tax is an example: the contributions made by corporate tax have increased from 8.2% in 2015, to 7.7 of the total in 2016, and to 6.9 of the total budgeted in 2017. What's going on here? Basically, Euskadi needs to undertake fiscal reform in order not to depend on increases in indebtedness, in order to maintain budgetary stability without mortgageing our youth. Euskadi must undertake a progressive tax reform where those who have the most pay more. It is actually simple, and it is invented in countries in our European environment, which is the mirror where we should look, in which we only look at them for advertising spots but never, never when it comes to approving budgets. The reality is that for this government supported by the PNV and the PSE demand more commitment with the country to the great economic powers – which we have, and with many benefits years after year – means a red line that prevents reaching any kind of budgetary agreement. It seems to us a paradox, we do not know whether it is Basque or simply of the times, that in a parliament with a clear progressive orientation, even if some are camouflaged, we encounter a draft like this, first, and, second, the PP as the key to its approval. Obviously, it was the responsibility of the main party of the Government to be able to speak with all the groups, and we have found ourselves, well, with a series of meetings that have had neither much will nor much result, but I also have to admit that the tone has been very cordial. But let us now return to spending and to how and where we spend. In this sense, Elkarrekin Podemos has presented an alternative based on the following pillars: free and quality public services, job generation and distribution of existing employment, combating job insecurity, enhancing the social coverage system, housing, equality between men and women, culture, and sustainability and economic development. We do not really believe that there is any alternative, not by closure, but by sense of country, by parliamentary possibilities and by the data that we can read periodically in the Sociometer and other sociological and economic studies. In 2016, for the first time, social inequality was one of the five main concerns of Basque citizens; however, the project that has been referred by the Government intends to invest more in debt payments than in social and employment items. Specifically, 9.36 % of public expenditure to pay the debt, and 9.04 % in social benefits and assistance. The Government does not seem to be concerned about this data, nor does it understand the diagnosis of citizenship, nor does it propose solutions that meet the social needs of the vast majority of Basques and Basques. Let's see, for example, some cases. We cannot accept that this Government does not want to equate the increase in income guarantee income with the increase in the inter-professional minimum wage of 8%; nor does it want to maintain the 7 % cut applied since 2011 in both the GIR and other benefits. And we don't accept it, but neither does the citizenry. I've said it before, it's still being told by those who have been playing health games in Bilbao since March 24. We cannot accept a clearly insufficient increase in ESAs, which also does not correlate with the amendment of the decree that regulates them that has been in force since January 2017, as this substantially expands the eligible concepts that were collected so far without over-expansion of the budget. There is a supposed commitment from the Government to implement a poverty strategy through the adoption of the Social Inclusion Plan, but unfortunately there is no budget for it. Although we are always going to celebrate every step we take in the area of gender equality, however small, we are concerned and we believe that it deserves a serious explanation that the Government's statements that this battle against inequality between women and men is paramount do not correspond at all to the resources actually allocated to further progress towards equality. We are talking about the scarce resources allocated to Emakunde, and also about the lack of a gender perspective throughout the budget. Even if we concede that the EUR 22 million is going to be allocated to equality, as the Government says, but that they are distributed in different departments, it does not make sense for such a decisive issue to appear in a dispersed and markedly assistanceist way, without putting resources into substantive measures. We need more to move towards a more just, democratic and egalitarian society for all people. And let us now talk about the main concern of Basque citizenship and the supposed priority of this government, which is employment. Budgeted employment plans are neither adequate nor sufficient. Much work is lacking to be done in shaping these plans, which at all are sufficiently large for employment to be given priority. Within the 209 million euros budgeted for the department some 27 million euros are hidden for work, only 13% of the department's budget. More specifically, in the area of the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate, it should be noted that the current staff of inspectors cannot deal with the highly illegal and irregular situation of recruitment, contributions and conditions of employment in companies, i.e. offences against the rights of workers, with a minimum of effectiveness. As far as concrete policies are concerned, we cannot adopt an employment plan that does not address employment-sharing measures. It cannot be that illegal overtime follows the agenda, when there are many people without work, and that nothing is done to avoid it in their employment plans. There are substantially fewer measures, such as social clauses in public contracts, promotion of the relay contract, aid conditional on companies, or strict control of the legality of working hours and overtime. We also understand that the public sector itself is a very good tool for creating quality jobs. And the Basque Government has the capacity to deepen the creation of public employment. In addition, this would involve job creation aimed at ensuring the necessary public services for the population, especially in the sectors most in need of citizenship (health, education or social services), and also with quality. Finally, I will refer, in fact, to these public services and to the obligation of every government to maintain their accessibility and quality. This is where it is noted, by the way, that these budgets were intended to be voted on by the People's Party. In general, we see with concern the policies that the Basque Government has implemented during the last parliamentary term with regard to public services in Euskadi, especially in health and education, and public services that are increasingly deteriorated and more precarious. These budgets make it clear that the Basque Government does not seriously bet on the workers of the Basque public service. In recent years, 21,400 jobs have been destroyed, creating excessive insecurity among the workers of the Basque administration, where today one in three is in an interim situation. For example, in Osakidetza precariousness reaches 34.8%, in education at 38%, in cleaning and cooking at 60%, while in the general administration it is 35%. And these budgets are not meant to address that problem. We do not understand, however, how, without making a commitment to quality public employment, the number of senior positions increases by seventeen, with a departure increase of 12.2%, while the number of advisors also increases by 28%. The budget allocated to health (EUR 3,537 million) is 3.4% higher than in the previous year, which we certainly welcome. But with the budgets, what we said before happens: it matters a lot where we spend on a sustained basis over the long political cycles, and in health, being far from the averages of the countries in the environment of the Fifteen, is how these expenditures are executed. This means something very simple: not enough effort is made to move towards a more social Basque health system, a Basque health system with more funding and with a lower degree of outsourcing and privatization, a Basque health system with a more strengthened and diversified primary care, with a public health that is the true rector of the system. In the field of education, more than the same thing: a slight rise (2.1%), if we take into account the cuts that education has suffered years ago and the numerous infrastructure problems of many of the educational centres throughout the Euskadi, the educational centres to which our children come every day. We would have liked this increase to have been reflected in strengthening the public network, but the budgets clearly show that the Department of Education continues to maintain two educational networks equally, not in a complementary manner. As a whole, the Basque educational system increases educational concerts by 4%, with special education centres, specific educational reinforcement projects and curricular diversity of both primary and secondary schools being fully coordinated. Let us remember that Decree 293/87 of 8 September, approving the Regulation of Educational Concerts, states that "from the existence of the public network, the private network and the network of ikastolas, the reorganization of the non-university Basque educational system aims to achieve the consolidation of a single public school Basque, democratic, plural, of quality, complemented by a single private network of educational institutions, supported by public funds through a concert system". It is important, as I said before, to focus on the word "complemented" and not "as well". The 2017 budgets are a clear reflection of how the network of concerted educational centres does not complement the public network, but is almost at the same level. In this regard, we will support budgets that strengthen the public network and prevent the public network from becoming a subsidiary of the concerted network. It also draws attention to the fact that the budget for 2017 cuts the economic envelope to improve the infrastructures of the Euskal Herriko Unibertsitatea, in the catering service lowers 13.9%, in school transport and escorts lowers 3.5%, in cleaning of centers lowers 7,4%, in the UNED 300,000 euros less, in the meantime. What does the government mean by a quality public service, which is what I would like to know?, make it easy for the same People's Party that they seem to be supporting elsewhere? In view of some of these budgetary decisions, it was not really that much effort to be voted on. Undoubtedly, Basque education needs more resources, increased resources for education, giving priority to spending on underprivileged centres, meeting demands for public network facilities and expanding public supply from zero to two years. Much work remains to be done to reverse this situation of obsolescence in which we find ourselves in Euskadi. Not only changes in funding, but in expenditure management; not only in what we invest and how much, but also in how we invest it. Along the same lines, and moving forward in other games, we are faced with a model of cultural management that only addresses a vision of citizenship as a passive consumer of cultural services and products. We believe that the cultural and linguistic policy that Euskadi needs must do what is necessary for participation to be its axis, starting with the budgets themselves. However, the Government's project on culture and Basque is completely inadequate, unfair and incapable of responding to the demands of the sector and citizens. There are no active policies of employment or equality throughout the budget for culture, where the precarious situation of cultural workers and artists is well known. Of particular concern is the case of women, who also have few positions of responsibility in the most important cultural institutions. We note how the cuts in previous years and breaches of commitments are compounded by the lack of commitment to the cultural fabric in Euskadi, and we believe that they are, both territorially and structurally, unbalanced. At a time of territorial imbalance, Araba once again finds herself in a damaged situation, despite showing signs of representing a strong and highly organized sector. With regard to structural imbalance, 52% of the budget is devoted to financing Euskal Irrati Telebista, whose cultural broadcast, unfortunately, is highly questionable today. The heading for the promotion of the Basque region is growing by just over half a million euros. This minimum increase sounds like budget marketing. The promotion of euskera remains in free fall, accounting for only 0.0014 % of the relative weight of the budget on gross domestic product, and does not respond to the needs that have been demanded by the world of euskaltzale. In conclusion, we do not come to this debate only with a critical and demanding look and with a desire to put on the table the things that we believe are necessary to avoid the paradox that I mentioned at the beginning, that the People's Party will be the hinge to approve the budgets of a chamber where the progressive forces, however, add up to thirty-eight seats. We also came with the certification that it was possible in another way. That is why we have amended a great deal of the budget presented by the Government. In addition, amendments have been submitted to most departments and to a large part of the autonomous bodies, bodies and public societies. The result that we are not going to have today, and that by extension Basque citizenship is not going to have today, is the following: a more social budget, in which educational items would be increased by 7% (7 million more in non-university scholarships); 425 % more the items for equality, such as gender and immigration; 11 % income guarantee income, with 37 million more; and 18 % other items related to social policies. A more equitable budget, as nominative grants (4 million) and discretionary transfers of capital from the public sector to the private sector (another 15 million) would be cut. A more rational budget, because we would have recovered almost 30 million by reviewing those items of expenditure that least affect the quality of the public service, such as protocol expenses, diets, propaganda, unnecessary advertising or private security. Also cutting 3.5 million salary lines to senior positions, introducing in return 2 million to increase staff or staff, such as in the Labour Inspectorate or in Osakidetza. A budget more sensitive to the demands of citizens, which would postpon investments that do not have the support of citizens, such as gas explorations in Vitoria, the intern of Donostia or the tram of Leioa. Finally, as far as the high-speed train is concerned, we proposed to postpone, to paralyse the payment of 135 million in additional costs associated with the construction stages, and to postpone the still uninitiated sections until the conditions under which the works are being tendered and the social profitability of the project are audited. To do things better, in short, not to turn the TAV into a new supersur. It was possible to adopt a more social budget without exceeding expenditure limits and without the need to owe the Basque Government, and above all, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, listening to citizens and putting their needs at the centre of their work. And it was also possible for a tax reform pact aimed at paying more those who have more, which would have allowed the social spending and productive investment items to be substantially increased, which would ultimately have created more and more quality jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u28	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. After that, Mr. Hernandez will defend him.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u29	In short, for our parliamentary group, public budgets should be a tool for distributing the wealth of the country. And that's why we say, and my colleague Lander has explained very well, that they must start with income, and we say that they must start with a taxation based on that sentence that has already been said: who else has, who pays more. And the reality, our reality here, beyond what the Constitution says, is that we are the workers who mainly hold the public coffers. And in the meantime, the company tax, indeed – as has been said before, I will refer to it – the company tax actually barely reaches 12%, or, as Mrs Tapia very well acknowledged the other day, in many cases it does not even reach the two digits. And for us it takes fair taxation to be able to have fair budgets. And that is why we believe that, as the first thing does not happen, the second thing has not been brought to this House, and we do not have a fair budget. We have, on the contrary, continuist and conservative budgets, which are certainly not going to bother the elites, the ones who have the most and the big corporations, and they are not going to respond, above all – and this is the most serious – to those who need them most, the people who are going through the worst, especially those who are having to resort to or who have to resort to public benefits and aid to survive and live. Just those, those who need it the most, this budget brings you cuts and barriers to access that public coverage that you need so much. Only for this reason should my group oppose these budgets. But these budgets are also not going to respond to what they often call the middle class (employees, self-employed, small entrepreneurs). They will not respond with the same budgetary policies to the great problems they had already had: unemployment, precariousness, general impoverishment and the lack of life prospects for young people and older people. We therefore believe that these are bad budgets in this respect. But it was true that there was an opportunity, because the Government did not have sufficient parliamentary majority to approve them alone, and therefore needed at least the abstention of one of the opposition groups. If we look at the House, there are three opposition groups in this Parliament. On the one hand there are two left-wing coalitions, progressives, and on the other hand there is a right-wing party, nationalist, in this case Spanish nationalist. The Government therefore had different sites to look at when negotiating its budgets. He could have looked to the left of the country, rich and plural, or he could have looked to the right of the People's Party, to the right of Mariano Rajoy and Maria Dolores de Cospedal. From the zero minute, and despite our group's offer to negotiate the budgets, different members of the government came out to say that Elkarrekin Podemos was self-excluded from the negotiations, when it wasn't true. There was a deliberate intention to put in public opinion the message that Elkarrekin Podemos did not want to negotiate budgets, and that is not true. Another thing is that we – and we recognized it from the beginning – were being demanding. Yes, we wanted to be demanding, because we understood that those who voted for us asked us to be demanding. They asked us to be demanding about equality, and that's why we wanted to talk about taxation. They asked us to be demanding in terms of defending the most vulnerable, and that's why we wanted to talk about GIR. And they asked us to be demanding in terms of improving people's living conditions, and that is why we wanted to talk not only about unemployment, but also about the conditions of employment. However, in our view, the Government had decided from the outset with whom it preferred to negotiate. And I preferred to negotiate with the People's Party. We believe that this was so for two fundamental reasons. Firstly, because we think that the Government knew that the People's Party was going to be less demanding than the groups on the left, because basically what the People's Party wanted to get from this negotiation is to pave the way for the PNV's possible subsequent support for the approval of the State's General Budgets. And secondly, because, in our opinion, in the end, the policies, especially economic ones, of the People's Party and the Basque Nationalist Party are not so far away. And in the end we have seen that the Basque Government and the Government of the State actually defend the same interests: those of the elites, those of the oligarchy, those of the great bourgeoisie. That is why we think that the budgets that are brought here are not the budgets that interest the social majority of the country. And we have confirmed that it is not just our consideration, but that all the unions (I say all the unions) and many social actors have also said so. Because behind the numbers, behind the budgets, there is ideology, and we think, we believe that behind these budgets – and I think Mr Damborenea has given me the reason, when he first explained what they defend – is the neoliberal ideology that in this case brings to this House the new troika to which I already referred on another occasion, composed of the PNV, the PSE and the People's Party. We are opposed to these budgets. We believe that other budgets could have been made more favourable to most people if the Government had preferred to look to the left of the House and not to look at the People's Party. And, finally, I am going to say that I personally am influenced by the positions of the trade unions, among other things because the representation of trade union delegates in the trade union elections is as legitimate a representation as the one we have who have been elected to this House in the political elections. They defend the workers, they are elected by the workers, and therefore on the issues affecting the working class of course they will influence me. As my colleague Lander said, we are opposed to these budgets, and we have missed the opportunity for better budgets for most people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u30	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Passing on the answer shift, Lord Damborena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u31	Thank you very much, Madam President. I don't know why the neoliberal term. You can call me a liberal directly. The neo thing didn't just get it. Like I'll never call you a neo-communist or anything. I don't know why you have to put adjectives. Now, I'm starting to worry about this debate something that... I can understand that from the opposition groups, which have not agreed, they say that it is that they demanded much more, they were much more demanding with the government to reach an agreement, that we apparently were freighters that we passed there, and as in Madrid we need to be voted on, because it is already, in return... That Bildu or we can say it seems normal. Now, in the last speech of the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party, in his debate with Bildu to see who is more nationalist and these things, say that our agreement, the one we have, is limited to whether it is a very high or very low percentage of the budget, man, it gives me what to think. First, if we have read the agreement we have signed, this one I have here, with the advisor. That of course this which we have signed goes beyond these budgets. Because I say that this agreement that we have signed is to comply with it, and that when we talk about the 2017-2020 Industrialization Plan we talk about 2017 to 2020, and it is to comply with it. And that when we talk about Business People Support Plan 2017-2020 is to fulfill it. And that when we talk about public investments, and how they have to be executed, it's to fulfill it. And when we talk about supporting families and reconciling work and family life, and it goes throughout the legislature, in the four years, I say it is to fulfill it. And when we talk about education, what we say in this document I wonder what it is to fulfill it. And when we talk about public governance, simplification of the public sector and proper management, I think it's to fulfill it. And when we say in fiscal matters that "any approach to tax reform must include a broad agreement that does not bring a drop in income to middle and low incomes and favours the competitiveness of Basque enterprises, especially micro-enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises, and favours savings and investment", it is to do so. And it is clear that it is right for us that this government has budgets, and we propose that stability is very important for the economy to go well. And when we talk about debt here, if there were no budgets, we could also not count on the EUR 150 million in which this budget is increased, because this government would not have the capacity to go to that debt. And of course our agreement has not been for 9, nor 19, nor 29, nor 39 nor 49 million euros. This is why we have signed here. And this is what is important to us, and I have referred to this with the social model. I do not know whether Mr Egibar feels very relevant or not, or whether he has read it or not, but it is clear that after his speech, which seems that we have reached this agreement in exchange for them voting for us in Madrid, this has not been the case. And this is reflected in this document. And I would like to be made clear if this is going to get wet before it starts to open, because, of course, we would have to know. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u32	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u33	Thank you, President. The Basque Socialists do not share any of the arguments on which Elkarrekin bases We can make his amendment to the whole. We reject this amendment because we do believe that this project, although certainly improveable, we understand that it is a valid, appropriate project and the one necessary to deal with the problems and needs of citizens, that citizenship that is suffering many problems every day. Because it is based on a diagnosis that does fit the Basque reality, and it does not forget the concerns of society about job insecurity or economic inequality. Moreover, this budget proposes economic amounts that will make possible the government program agreed between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi-Euskadiko Ezkerra, whose main objectives are economic recovery, job creation, the maintenance of public health and education policies and social policies. What is proposed to us by the amendment to the whole of Podemos is that we should make a clean table, that we should start again, as if nothing done so far until they have arrived would have been useful for Euskadi. They pose us as that joke of Mafalda: "Let the world stop, let me get down." Because returning the budgets would be to maintain the budget extension, ladies and gentlemen of Elkarrekin Podemos; it would be to say no to the 1% wage increase of public employees; it would be to say no to OPEs in several public services; it would say no to the 1.5% revaluation of the GIR; it would be to prevent the implementation of the Framework Programme for Employment and Economic Recovery; it would be to prevent the increase of measures and support for youth employment and long-term unemployed; it would be to prevent measures to reactivate economically the most disadvantaged industrial areas of the crisis; it would be to say no to reinforcement items to prevent someone from cutting off light and gas; it would be to say no to devoting 80% of public housing to rent. And to these and many other things it would be to which, in your opinion, we would have to say no if we listened to your amendment as a whole. Those who now intend to make fiscal reform the cornerstone of the budgetary and political debate, even though they have the open register for their proposals in this House since October, waited six months (six months) to bring this so urgently from the tax surcharges. And when they decided to bring him in and register him in the Chamber registry, they brought him in a week after the government presented them with a draft income and expenditure. And why did they bring that issue through the emergency route? Because you had an urgent need to put on a suit in front of the revenue and expenditure project proposed to you by the Basque Government. And in that tailor-made suit they intend to put together, they include another cornerstone in the expenditure chapter: income guarantee income. And you ask here, in Euskadi, what you don't do where you rule. And I'm going to put Navarra's case, because there they decided to restrict access to basic income to a few people, they decided to condition access to others, and they expressly linked the income update to the consumer price index. And, defending this in Navarre, there they do not speak of basic income "of shame", even if they are inferior to Basque income, and although in Navarre they do not even have recognized rights as we have here, like the Housing Law, rights that we intend to extend with social protection to other collectives that do not contemplate the current law. With the draft budgets, and from the rigour and responsibility, Basque society must know that it has a social protection system that protects people if life, by circumstances and circumstances, is turned on them. Elkarrekin Podemos contradicts itself by negatively emphasizing his speech to the Basque about income guarantee income, when it is the model that his formation, Podemos, sets as an example for all the rest of Spain. And I hope that the day will come when you, ladies and gentlemen of Elkarrekin Podemos, truly believe what you are voting for. Because you voted in principle to promote a new social pact guaranteeing the Basque system of social protection, including new situations not covered by the current law. You, with your vote, endorsed the fact that in May this year we have the report on which to improve the current model of social protection. And, despite that express commitment on the part of the Basque Socialists, you mark today with this amendment to the whole, in your speech, the distances with that pact. And I hope that the sooner you get to where the Basque Socialists have come from, the sooner we get to the point where the axis of the debate is what we have not yet achieved with the best model of social protection in Spain, and that is that the economic departure for social aid is less and less, because it will have diminished the chronification in social aid of the people and people who make up Basque citizenship. That is why we invite you to join in a conviction that several groups already share in this House. Our model of protection, built in the last thirty years, has scope to improve, no doubt, but this model of protection is of the best we have been able to do together in our history, and it is one of the reasons why self-government makes sense, a self-government that to solve the problems of citizenship, in this case for the most vulnerable and worst-cased people and groups, has a comprehensive coverage system. A system that is an example throughout Spain. And we hope that those who are opposed today will be placed on the Basque political scene and will be able to participate in the social construction of Euskadi, in which others have always been. It is very possible that in the future we will certainly speak in another way of some of the issues that have brought us here today, because in this House we will have already endorsed the route of some of the reforms we want to address. Because, we are convinced, we will already address the reform of the GIR, the reform of the educational pact, the development of the decree of the subjective right to housing, the Framework Programme for Employment and Social Reactivation. There is still a long way to go, but not the nearly EUR 267 million you are proposing, such as Elkarrekin We can, to change the budget, are reasons for an amendment to the whole. Because 2.4% of a budget is not an economic model change, it is not a social model change for Euskadi. And we socialists have two premises, every time we've been talking and negotiating a budget. First, that not a single step back in the rights conquered by Basque citizenship. Not a single step back. And we have also always promoted no to resignation. And these are budgets in which there is not a single step backwards in the rights won, and these are not the budgets of resignation, no matter how much it hurts some. Today it is up to us to discuss strategic reforms that are outlined in that Euskadi's governance programme for 2020, and I hope that Elkarrekin We can, from the very beginning of reality, use its eleven seats to influence agreements that will be country-specific and relevant to the future of Basque society. I therefore regret that you have tabled this amendment in its entirety, but it is also very clear to me that you had no intention of negotiating these budgets. They did not have it to be part of a government agreement, and therefore they will certainly not, because of the derivations that you have commented on in different press conferences, they had no intention of negotiating budgets that you do not think are fair and the government seems to be a fair budget and that they really respond to the needs of the people who are worst going through it. These are not cut-off budgets or budget restraints. They give answers to the people who are going through the worst, and they give answers to all Basque citizens, who have been waiting a long time for us in politics and politics to agree that we should all move forward. I only hope that Elkarrekin We may have, in the not too distant future, the opportunity to do so. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief of departments. Good morning, everyone. It has been mentioned several times which are the principal cares of the Basque communities. You've mentioned them. And I think we ought to remember that the third chief care of the Basque People is that of us: our conflict, our mutual relations, our difficulties, this difficulty of getting to agreements, and of talking. It's not about corruption. That's further back. The same relationships between us. That's why we thought it was not a new policy, a bad policy. for example, from Podemos, that the good policy, in good manners, ought to be plunged into the circle of good styles, if we are really concerned with the cares of the people. From this point of view, from our legal staff and from the Jeltzai of the Eunctian Party, we insist that we choose to interview again and again in the sphere of politics, and from this point of view we demand that we make a real investigation on the negotiation of the bill of budget. And together from Podemos, when we read the full correction of your budgets, all we see is the choice of political unreality. It's not realism, what you're dealing with is a political unrealism. That's what you've done. It is a proposal that is incoherent, incongruent, has no homogeneity, is unrealizable. But when you have heard your speech, Egibar has prepared for the opening of the house, and there are some about to go, I would tell you out of your sight. You know what that is, don't you? Losing yourself out of things you do. I'd like to know what you're doing in your full corrections, and what you've said here, where they're "la diferencia de model," "las prioridades" a las que vuestra enmiendada de totalida responsde." I understand, Mr. Hernandez, and I'll try to answer you both, because you're going to be strong enough to guarantee the incomes, because that's what you're planning. You plan the divisional correction to the cost of 80 million. Eighty-three million in a $11.059 million budget. You are proposing partial amendments for an amount of expenditure which increases by EUR 83 million, in a budget of EUR 11,059 million. You want to tell me, with a variation of less than 1% of the budget, where does that model change look? That model change! How can you pose...! You didn't know what to do with this budget. You take the expenditure budget, and of the 83 million that you raise in the expenditure, almost 50% is the GIR, the increase of that 15%; by the way, added to the 1.5% that is already incorporated in the draft budgets, a quantity greater than that which many workers will have in their agreements, many public employees and many pensions, which will be below that 1.5%. And, apart from that, tell me, all that speech you make, where someone sees it reflected in the partial amendments you put forward. Kanpoeder. They remain in the headlines, they seek the headline, they are lost in the headline, but there is no more, because, if not, you had to have tabled an amendment to the whole and a set of partial amendments that radically changed the approach. You're talking through income, debt. If you want, we can look at the debts of other places. And you're talking about taxation, that the one who makes the most pay and the one who makes the least pay. I'm going to give you some data, for example in IRPF. In Euskadi those who earn less, up to 12,000 euros of rent, do not pay anywhere. Up to 16,000 euros gross, in Euskadi is where they pay the least. Up to 20,000 euros, in Euskadi is where they pay the least. And from EUR 600,000 in Euskadi, in the Autonomous Community, it is the second most paid place. You're talking about a bunch of tax expenditures. Do you know where those tax charges come from? So 54% of value added tax, and from VAT, basically from the application of reduced and super-reduced rates. We have no regulatory capacity in value added tax, but you are where there is regulatory capacity. They present initiatives there, in Madrid, to change, to remove these tax rates. Yeah? Yeah? Can we propose in Madrid, in line with what they are proposing, proposals to eliminate the reduced and super-reduced rates? You are talking about a huge amount of tax expenditure on personal income tax, of which 18 % is tax expenditure. Do you know where they come from? For from many deductions: compensation to compensation, pensions, orphanage, families, burdens to have children in charge, for contributions to EPSV... You too are on the general boards that have competence: present initiatives to remove those deductions! Be consistent. Don't make a speech... which is very easy to make a speech without arguments. As long as they don't give us real arguments, we have serious difficulties in opposing arguments. As long as you're not consistent and wherever you're doing what you're saying, you're cheating on people. They're cheating on people. This is absolutely true, it is an exercise of political irresponsibility. You are talking about inequalities between men and women, about social inequalities, about the deteriorating health system. Of course, listening to the figures given by the counselor obviously it is necessary to be crazy or not to know what a health system is to disagree with what it says. "It is a satisfaction for all Basques and Basques to hear these figures that the Health Advisor gives us." It seems to you self-congratulation what I say, doesn't it?, but it's a... Yes, Mr. Martinez. For I have interpreted them, because they are not my words, they are those of your spokesman from the Health Committee, Mr Uria. They are not mine, I have interpreted them, because that is what Mr Uriah said: "Obviously, it is a pleasure to hear these figures. I mean it takes being crazy or not knowing what a health system is to disagree. It is a satisfaction for all Basques and Basques to hear these figures. It's not 1.619 – let me be silly – it's 1.633; I mean, it's the figure I've given to the federation." You guys. This is honesty. What you do is an exercise in political irresponsibility. Don't talk about taxation, don't talk about tax spending without proposing amendments, don't talk about spending, when this is the real speech they make. And I am sure that every one of you, in your field, in your sectoral sphere, when you are out of here with your party partners, I am sure that when you talk about the Basque model of social protection you will praise it and use it as an example. I'm sure. I'm sure, because, if not, they cheat on them and on them too. I am sure that Mr Uria is honest and makes the same speech when he is away, and I am sure that in the educational sphere too. By the way, Mr. Martinez, you've given food, transportation and cleaning down. Yes, they go down, because the bids have been smaller, not because the service is smaller. Not because the service is minor. The issue is not paying more for paying more, but that management is good... [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u36	Please. Lander, your time will come.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u37	No, gentlemen. What matters is that the service is good, of quality, and is maintained, which is what is done. Employment plans, economic development. You know, in the summary of the amendments, one of the amendments you have tabled proposes removing the amounts of internationalisation in the Department of Economic Development for cooperation. That is very good for cooperation, but what it cannot claim is that in economic development and internationalisation what they want is for cooperation to be the symbol of the internationalization of Euskadi. And with that we internationalize companies? And with this we enhance the economic development of Euskadi? And that's how we generate jobs? Where are your employment plans, where are your economic policies in this whole amendment and in the whole set of partial amendments you are submitting? Where are they? Because it's 83 million euros. To reach a pact, the Basque Government offered them EUR 25 million. Many of the proposals that you were putting forward could have been accepted, could have been paid with that amount. They could have paid for them, a lot of them. You propose to increase the amount of cooperation: it would have arrived perfectly (1,760,000). You in economic development carry, in part (in part, because that is what you do in economic development), your economic and economic recovery policy. You charge in part what is meant for investment for Basque Y, knowing how you know how that account is managed. They include a 5 million line for the source of neutrons per sprat: they would have arrived. They plant more money for Alokabide and for housing (by the way, a housing item that in this budget is increased by 12.9 million euros); they propose an increase of 3 million: they would have arrived. Scholarships, you raise 7 million: they would have arrived. Contribution to the UPV, 3 million: they would have arrived. For public health, Mr Uria, which is what you intend, would have arrived to them. It would have happened to them, because they basically do not raise any more differences. And then there's a lot of inconsistencies. They charge everything there is to computer science, and they bet on free software, as if free software were free. They include a game... They say "remove licenses," like free software is free! But do you think the Basque government doesn't use free software? Use the private and use free software, depending on the efficiency of each of the systems and which responds best. You are completely wearing the private security of the premises, saying that the Ertzaintza does, as the second activity of the Ertzaintza, but then in chapter I you leave it the same. We charge private security, but we don't put one in chapter I! What do you think, that the Ertzaintza is looking at the shrews for you to come and give them occupation? All external services from all sites are charged, except for Equality. In Equality, we can carry out foreign services. All nominative grants are charged, saying they are discretionary, but then it turns out that you include nominative grants. On what criteria? On what criteria? Equo's criterion? Ezker Batua's criterion? Are they summaries of criteria? The criteria of each spokesperson? From Uriah? From Becerra? From Bollain? The Zabala criterion? How do we look at this? It just doesn't have any homogeneity! It has no homogeneity. It is an exercise of political irresponsibility that you have done. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. To answer, together, the representative of the Podemos has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u39	I don't know whether to start with the fight you seem to have with your budget partners, with Mr Damborenea, who has devoted more time to you than to us in the replica, or to start with all this last. That in the end, as always when we have a debate of these, we find half truths. True measures, because when we have been gathered, when we have made those approaches that you have listed us, we have not even been addressed with a document in which we could talk about anything. We were called and we were told, "Hey, look, it's the RGI thing... no," and that's it. And that's where the negotiation ended. And then you've made a list of issues, you've also quoted Mr. Uria... That I think it's very good to quote him, but it's good to quote everything. It's okay to quote first what he says, how he praised some numbers... That then we also have to listen a little bit, because we, when we make a criticism, are not making a criticism of the system or are not making a criticism of what has been worked out. We are doing the criticism because we believe that it can be improved, and because we believe that it can be prioritized, and because we believe that more money can be put in some places to improve that system. Not because we want to load the above, as you want to make believe because you don't like that criticism. And Mr Uria did what he did is, first, give a series of numbers, which can be positive and are positive, and then make a criticism of a very specific issue. And that criticism must also be taken into account. But then also, following, if we talk... For example, I will start at the last, Ertzaintza and second activity. What happens in the Ertzaintza with the second activity is not that the Ertzaintza is looking at the musarañas; it is that, instead of creating second activity squares, what is done is to adapt the squares of those people who could do second activity, adapt those squares, so that they are doing the same work they did before, with disabilities. That's what you do. And then there are still a lot of private security contracts, which are a million dollars that could be invested elsewhere. When we talk about free software, one, we don't load all licenses. We load licenses that are unnecessary and can be covered with free software services. And free software, as you know well, the only cost it has is maintenance. And if on top of that you invest in that maintenance, and in a local office that can allow you to do that work of attention to the maintenance of free software, the only investment we have is in that office that can allow... And we forget about outside companies, first of all, that what we produce is a lot of spending, and when we need concrete products, instead of spending on private software, what we do is we promote the local economy, and we spend and invest, the money we spend on private software products from international multinationals, in local companies, that would make a lot more money if we could put public offers for those products that we create. And it's a new economic model for computing. That's what would happen. What happens is that what we prefer is to go to the comfortable and the simple. And then, if we go directly to where this same debate is, too, that of the RGI, here the problem of the RGI is no longer the amount, more or less, or how much the workers charge or not. The problem is modeling. The problem is model, because you want an RGI that is lower than the interprofessional minimum wage, because what you want is to pass it so that these people integrate into the world of work, that they have to integrate, and we believe that the threshold of dignity is in the interprofessional minimum wage. And, as the threshold of dignity is in the interprofessional minimum wage, in addition to raising the GIR in proportion, as the law says, what should be equal, because we believe that the threshold of poverty and dignity is below that minimum wage. That's what happens, and in the end we find ourselves, as you said, with half the truths. And we could also talk about the general boards, what the general boards represent for the country model, or how with committed appropriations you have hijacked much of the budgets that we could develop here, at the general boards, and you don't allow us to develop the budgets that we have here for the kidnappings that you have at the general boards. It does have to do with the democratic system, but that is another debate. And I do not want to go any further, because once again it has been shown that it is a question of modeling, that it is not a question of where the issues are to be prioritized, because where we interpret cuts you do not interpret them, and where we interpret priorities you simply do not interpret them. And that's it. But it's just that nothing happens either, because we have two different models. Because moreover – and here I go to what has happened with Mr Damborenea – Mr Egibar has preferred to assume that speech that the People's Party was passing by and giving them the vote for free, because it is a speech that comes very well for them to hide that their economic and social model is much closer to that of the People's Party than they want to say to citizens. That's what's going on, which is much closer, and it's been a lot easier for them. And there I disagree with Mr. Casanova. Mr Casanova suggested that the People's Party was passing by and that he gave them a free vote. No, no, The reality is that it has been much easier for them to negotiate with the People's Party because indeed the economic and social model that this party has is much closer than they want to put forward, with the most reactionary and austere party we have, which is a party of cuts, corruption and denial of national rights in Euskadi. That is the question, that the social model is much closer, and that we have also seen how it is intended to hide that issue. Well, Mr. Egibar took advantage of it and said, "Well, since I've been given this issue that I've been given the vote, I'm going to take advantage of it and I'm going to take it, because it's very good for me to make that evidence unclear." Without entering, for example, into what has been raised before, a budget pact that has not even been negotiated here, which has been negotiated in Madrid, which remains part of the policy that we have criticized in the months that we have been here and that has to do with a marketing policy that has been going on for many years; a marketing policy that has to do with our budgets, with our competitive rights, with what we have to do by law, as can be the laws that develop here that are being resorted to. But what? They prefer to commit those resources, they prefer to commit those powers, to party negotiations to approve budgets. That's what happens. And that they continue to compromise the future of this country's development to agreements with the People's Party, because they prefer to continue trading with those powers to mark political victories, when in reality they are rights that belong to us and with which we do not have to trade politically. There was a parliamentary bow that allowed for a much broader and much more progressive model of social development, and you have decided to agree with those of the neoliberal model. Why? Because in the end it turns out there's not that much difference. And then again, referring to the Socialist Party, the Socialist Party was talking about the fulfilment of the government pact. Of course, indeed, of course it is fulfilled. A government pact that is 96% Basque Nationalist Party and 4% Socialist Party, because, of course, it is easy to comply with the government pact without the direct or indirect influence of the Socialist Party, because we have met with budgets that obviously had no influence from this party. And I would also ask you, please, not to talk about Navarre, because if in Navarre we have to make much more effort to implement a model of social development, and if in Navarre we still have a lot of time to reach the level that is here, it is precisely because you, with your party in Navarre, have long supported the most reactionary party that exists in Spain, which is UPN, when many times you could have changed the government that existed in Navarre. And what's going on? That, since your party wouldn't leave you, you didn't. And that is why we must now go much slower than what is going on in Euskadi to develop a social model in Navarre. That's what happens. That's what happens. And that above you have stayed out of the development of that social model, when you could have been inside. That's what happens. Because also give a yes to these budgets, even though you have made a list of yes to these budgets, that is not to the citizenry, say yes to higher offices, say yes to a lot of expenses that are not priority for the citizenry, and say no to a social model of development. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u40	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Second reply turn. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u41	Thank you very much, Madam President. Indeed, there are two models, and in your RGI model we completely disagree. I've understood you perfectly from the beginning. We do not want a model in which people can live without working, because we all aim. When we used to talk about liberals and communists, that was already invented in his day, and it was a disaster. We have to have a model like we have, which guarantees people's dignity but does not discourage them from working. Sure, if you're gonna make more money for staying home than going to work, then it doesn't make any sense. And that is what you have proposed with your amendments. And by the way, after hearing him, I don't know if the most reactionary are us or UPN, or there's some party left out there, because every time he quotes, he says he's the most reactionary. I will tell you that we are the most progressive in this House, and you will understand me. We are the most progressive because we guarantee pensions. We are the most progressive because we guarantee that the GIR can be covered and paid. And we are the most progressive because we understand that the welfare state has to be sustainable, because if it is not sustainable it falls. And you pose that it is unsustainable, looking very well in a goodist speech that "We're going to distribute more money, it's all free", as if it didn't come out of anywhere. We are ensuring that such progress exists and that such progress is maintained even in times of economic crisis. Finally, I will tell you that we are even more progressive than you, because in the agreement we have allocated more money to international cooperation than you proposed in your amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u42	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u43	Thank you, President. Let's see, this depreciating the opponent saying that it is only part of 4% of the budget, and therefore acts in the government program with 4%, I already answered it. You weren't on that committee, I think. But, look, for socialists, Mr Martínez, politics is the ability to influence people's lives to improve it. We put the seats and votes that the Socialist Party won in the autonomics of last year to really influence the decisions that this government might have. We are part of the Government to influence and share the responsibility of the Government in making decisions that will affect all citizens. We have not come to this government to understand politics as a distribution of neither armchairs nor money, nor 4%. We are responsible for 100 per cent of this budget, so that it is clear to you. Just like he wasn't on the committee, he didn't find out. Let's see, you're very upset about this Navarra thing. Listen, but if you're part of the government of change, listen, then run! Why are you slow? Well, run! Or is it the Socialist Party's fault now why they go slow? They're already in the government of change. Accelerate! Accelerate...! Or what happens, that when one assumes institutional responsibilities, there goes!, is that there are problems; there goes!, we can't run so much; there goes!, is that then things aren't as fair as we thought? They have run to put the CPI in the RGI, for that they have run, for that they have run in that autumn law. And there are questions in Elkarrekin's argument We may be concerned about me, sincerely. The main thing is that you all make mistakes by denying reality. And it is worrying that effort to deny everything, as if it were the first time, in the thirty-seven years that this House is going to have (tomorrow turns thirty-seven), that someone comes here to worry about the people of the towns and cities, as you say in your amendment to the whole, as if in the towns and cities of Euskadi for thirty-seven years there were neither health centres, nor public schools, nor doctors, nor nurses, nor employees... That is why I told you in my previous speech, the amendment of the whole of Bildu is not an amendment to these budgets. It is an amendment to the almost four decades of self-government in Euskadi. Because we have managed to build an improved community, with defects, of course, of course, but we have managed to build it. We don't start out of nowhere. And you tend – yes, Mr.Martinez – to make a clean table: it is that nothing has existed until you have arrived. Nothing has existed until you have arrived. They even deny that there is a commitment to the tax review! It's you! They know perfectly well that the Socialists and the Government have made a commitment to review taxation, which, by the way, we were the Socialists in 2013, which provoked that tax reform. We were the socialists who provoked fiscal reform. And then you come up with the theme of... They compare, don't they? We will pay more in debt than in spending on social and employment policies. Hey, why don't you talk about how much you're going to spend on economic development and competitiveness? Because it's the same amount! Why don't you talk about how health care almost triples debt spending? Why in the framework programme on employment and economic recovery is spending going to be almost six and a half times more than that debt burden? Because we don't understand what they're getting at! You believe that all social policy must be measured by the amount of aid given, and this is very much like those welfare policies of the parties to which you are so critical. Because the Socialists are in favour of guaranteeing aid to everyone who needs it, of course, but we are also in favour of putting the means in place to ensure that aid is increasingly needed by less and less people. And while Elkarrekin We can seem to aspire to condemn for life Basque citizens, those people who require social assistance, we socialists aspire to a society in which no one is forced (or forced) to seek help, because that will mean that we have been right in the country's policies of economic development and economic activation, because there will be decent employment that will solve wage problems. And you pass sovereignly and go far beyond the subject of ESAs, and the subjective right to housing, and what happened for the first time here when you got and gained many social rights. Because you, from Elkarrekin We can, are...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u44	Thank you, Madame Corcuera...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u45	Yeah, I'm done right now. Yes, thank you, President. Nothing, 30 seconds. You from Elkarrekin We may think that in Euskadi we are playing that Sims game. I don't know if you know it, but it's a game of social simulation and strategy, in which you're building cities, towns, social organizations, and putting in a little house, and an outpatient clinic, and a hospital, and firefighters... Well, you're doing that, playing with Euskadi at the Sims game, just that we've been here almost 40 years of self-government. We're not born today. Today Euskadi does not start from scratch, but here we have been fighting for these social conquests for a very long time. And you differ from us, from the socialists, in that you cannot accept reality, deny it in Trump's best style, and with that you seek only a moment of glory. And the socialists are thinking more about those who come behind, that what comes behind is better than what we already knew how to build. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u47	Mr. Martínez and Hernandez and I'm telling all of the Podemus, you've been assigned a full-page correction to a highly social budget that points to 76 social expense. A strong standard of quality, of social education and protection, and besides that, a number of jobs for the production and economic development. We met last night about the plan that M.M. had just planned for reforming the economy and promoting the job, about 8.800 million dollars. I'm not going to go deep into the budget games because it's been half an hour to defend it itself, but I'll tell you what people have the will and the care of the citizen are, what the people have to listen to. The sociometer appeared last week, and we saw what the attentions of the people are, and the reductions you criticize are in the thirteenth place, three centres for the people. "Therefore you do not know the cares of the people. The people know very well what their priorities are, and what they are about to be, and that they are well-ordered: The deficiencies against unemployment, the steps to work, the power of the social protection system, health, education, the housing, economic crisis... Because they are, and they are well-lined. "Esscal society knows better than that "happiness" is the effort to keep a powerful system for the welfare of society when society itself works in a collective effort to maintain its position; That we spent 20 million in '90, or investing them, in 2008, directing 234 million dollars for this, and directing 518 million euros in the current budget for that. And this is known by the people, because they do it willingly and with their collective labour. Desberdintasunak aipatzen dituzue eta, ore atera berri dago Survey of poverty and social inequalities, euskal gizratekoa eta said: "Between 2014 and 2016 the recovery of the income level of Basque households translates generally into a sharp improvement in indicators of poverty risk and lack of maintenance well-being linked to income shortfalls". Eta ha guztion exfortzuari and ahaleginari esker of age, Jaurlaritzaren leadergoari esker. The circle of equality would not permit me to speak of it again. Because it's really important for us to do it, and because the engagement is really strong in this area, and you can see in the budgets that because it's a deep study of the genus's impact, how much of the division, how much we're doing, how many of the different organizations it's made to be co-workers: I'm happy, I'm happy, I'm happy, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, And you'll know better than you do what's happened in other places. Finally, I'll tell you that the gates of the Jestric Party are open, as I said before, for interview, for negotiation... But for that, ye must jump, a quantum leap: You must proceed from unrealism to politicalism, give us specific proposals, give us arguments to get back to them, you must be consistent, you must decide your example, and in this respect we shall be able to go forward to the treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Now that the argument's over, it's about to vote whether the bill comes back or not. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 29; the opponents are 46; white, 0; abstentions are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-30.u49	So, the bill doesn't come back to fun. I shall next read two institutions of expression: The institutional expression. Run 20. "The 30th of March 20th. He'll run from Ochandio and finish on April 9th. Running has its 20th edition this year. It's been a long way since the race towards the eucalypation organization in AEK has started in 1980. The race, the popular and gigantic initiative towards the eucalyptus, endeavors to encourage the knowledge and use of the euphorium, carrying the witness by hand and people. "Some say the edition this year. He's actually running through sharing. To speak for a language is to defend them all. To the world of some people. Running is an invitation to the diversity of language. It calls the creation of more universal world and culture. And this way, by the way, must be done together: these individuals in conjunction with institutions, institutions, and motives. It's a Basque, it's eroska. It is our will and our duty to act in every respect, every day and in every field, for it is due to all the people. "This is as follows: "One. 20 of the Basque Laws. It means protection to the runner, and also to the teams and operators who are working in the act of the adults and in the alpha. "Two. 20 of the Basque Laws. He calls all the citizens to be in a run, both when he passes through his own country, and in actions organized about it. "And three. The Eusgian continues to run and buy a kilometre and scroll the Gasteo name. The second institutional expression. "The celebration of March 31 as International Day for Trans Visibility was born in Michigan in 2009, through social media, on the initiative of American activist Rachel Crandall. Its aim was to celebrate a positive day in which trans people were visible, in contrast to the Trans Memory Day, where the people killed by the collective were remembered. In recent years it has become a date for the claim of their rights throughout the world. "The existence of trans people is not a phenomenon today. They have always existed in all cultures of humanity, showing human diversity. However, this reality has been admitted in different societies in a very diverse way over time and in the different geography of the world. Some have been accepted to a greater or lesser extent and social mechanisms and laws that promote integration have been articulated, while others, using pseudo-religious, medical and legal arguments, have considered gender diversity from a sin to a disease, and even a crime, thus justifying serious human rights violations. "The law of the West unites in the celebration of that day the visible transition by means of the following: "One. This institutional expression in order to protect the rights and visibleness of persons at the close meeting. "Two. The treaty of the Basque Parliament with the protection and defence of the rights of the people of the world; "Politics favorable to the social, education, and health inspector. "In harmony with the international recommendations on this subject, and especially with those mentioned in this document." So since the list of subjects has been exhausted, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was twelve o'clock at noon, and forty-eight.
