ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u0	Good morning, everyone. We're going to begin the entire meeting, and we've arranged or decided to start with a minute's silence about the memories of the explosions that have been committed during the week. [[Pause]] One theme: "A 2016th yearly account of the interrogation of the legislature, according to Article 208 of the Rule." 208 of the Parliament's Rule. and, following the article, first of all, the interrogator must present a summary of the report. Mr. Arrid, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u1	Thank you, Mrs. President of the legislature. Comrades, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the legislature, gentlemen, gentlemen of the Government, good morning. It is an honour to me to appear again in this company of the whole of the Basque legislature, in order to briefly explain the contents of the usual report of 2016. I am pleased to represent this institution in the presence of the representatives of the Basque People, for the Ardria is, after all, the high-man of the legislature, created by two ends; on the one hand, to defend the rights of the citizens of the Basques, in their communication with the public administrations of our country, and to promote the good Government. On the 26th of May, I appeared before the Human Rights and Committee of Equality to make this report known. There, I made a quantum analysis of the smokes that the people had made last year to the intermediary, and I briefly explained the activities of the organization on that side. To-day, I shall present myself in the presence of this whole assembly, in the law which prescribed the intermediary, that is to say, the general rating of the state of protecting the rights of the Renaissance. In the course of my conversation, it is not exactly possible to point out how far rights are protected by each of the 28 areas where they organize the activity of the intermediary, and as far as the Office of Children and Nerves. Hence, from the point of view of protecting the rights of people, I shall only show some of the most important points of the opinion which this organization has in view of the activity and public policies of the Euskalians, and especially the actions which have been performed in favor of the weaker groups. In any case, before I could reach the substance directly in my performance, I would like to mention at least the most significant general facts in which the Arctic work could be placed last year in the context. In 2016, they have broken the mark of serving the people, and of the activities connected with the administration. It was almost 11,000 in all. If we go away from this great level of activity and find a point of reference that will help us see the situation more clearly in the past, I will tell you that during the years of 2010 and 2016, the general activity of the interrogation has increased from 6 to 11.000 activities, that is to say, to increase to 67%. Among the activities relating to the public and to the inspection of the administration, there are 8,200 Kyxes. Besides, we've opened 50 files to study professionals and developments, and they've been answered to query 2,600 that asked for information and direction. We've had about 100 meetings with social institutions, and 80 meetings with different administrations, among other activities. I'm sorry. On the whole, the international activity went up 23% compared to the year 2015. The influence of the administration has corrected and modified almost 93% activity caused by the cause of complaint. Most of the time, there has been no formal recommendations to accept the proposal of the interrogator's administration. This data is the highest of the years we've been studying and shows clearly that the intervention of the intermediary is actually effective. The Euskal administration is well aware of the recommendations and recommendations of the interrogator, which, no doubt, is a laudable position, which gives a perfect meaning to the work of this institution. The Office for Children and Adolescents operates, as you know, within the institution of Ararteko. The number of Ararteko files showing the presence of children and adolescents reached 521: one in five of the complaints submitted to this institution. Ararteko considers it essential to disseminate and lead actions to guarantee the rights of children and adolescents under the Convention on the Rights of the Child, ratified in 1990, which is therefore part of our legal system. Well, the best interests of the child, proclaimed as the basic and cross-cutting principle of such a convention, remain too often forgotten about public policies, except perhaps those aimed specifically at children. This is reflected, among other things, in the absence of a Basque plan for children, or in the failure to make mandatory reports on the impact of laws and decrees on children, as required by the 2015 legislation. It is hopeful, however, that the Basque Government will promote an investment strategy for families and children; an inter-agency, stable and far-reaching strategy through a country compact for children and families that addresses, inter alia, the prevention of child poverty and the need to avoid the transmission of inequality. It is true that an agreement of this kind will certainly require a great deal of effort and a great deal of time. With regard to social services for under-protected children, and still in the area of normative development, it is necessary to make progress in the regulation of socio-educational and psychosocial intervention services, which at the municipal level must respond to risk situations and intervene at the earliest stages and in a preventive way in under-protected situations. Finally, it seems necessary to recall the sixth additional provision of Decree 131/2008, regulating the resources for residential care for children and adolescents in situations of social deprivation, which provides for the elaboration of a common protocol for action in the emergency care of unaccompanied foreign minors. I will come back later on this issue, in connection with the reception of refugees. The Ararteko in the field of education considers that the achievement of an educational pact must be a priority objective, thanks to which our system can be given the necessary stability. Last year, as a result of the collaboration between the Department of Education and the Ararteko, significant changes have been made in the process of admission of students in order to avoid the misuse of the data of the standard, something on which the Ararteko had already affected the submission of previous annual reports. This Ararteko can only express his satisfaction at the special involvement, commitment and dedication shown on this occasion by those responsible for education, and encourages them to continue along the same path. On foreign students, Ararteko wishes to highlight the presentation of the II Plan of Educational Care for Immigrant Students in the framework of the inclusive intercultural school 2016-2020, which incorporates many of the proposals that have been pointed out by this institution in relation to the admission of students. Sadly, one more year we must refer to complaints received about possible cases of school harassment, in which the Internet and new technologies are increasingly present. We should therefore welcome the establishment of a protocol for prevention and action in the field of education in the face of situations of possible lack of protection, ill-treatment, harassment, child sexual abuse, and for collaboration and coordination between the field of education and those involved in the protection of children. In relation to vocational training studies, the complaints submitted have shown that there is a growing interest in this type of teaching, which is not always satisfied due to the application of orders of preference and priority that this course has been affected by the amendments introduced by Organic Law 8/2013, called Lomce, regarding the conditions of access to middle-level training cycles. In the case of grants and other aid, the reasons for the complaint are redundant compared with those of previous years: administrative delays in the settlement of applications, delays in the payment of the amounts recognised, etc. On account of the importance of his health, it must be admitted that in the End Of Life the Rights of Pertson, and the Law of the 8th of July on the Security of Duinity. In the same way, a new regulation on addictions has been accepted through the 1/2016 law of the Inegrators on Adiac and Drug Dependency. In the year 2016, the Arlias has received certain complaints which explain the difficulties which strangers have to receive for their health. Yes, the means of interpreting the right of assistance in emergencies, as well as the inconveniences that are allowed to admit of the right to help, show that these men are in a complicated state of administration, in consequence of the present regulation, although the Medical Department stands in favour of it. In like manner, there are some complaints about the waits for surgery hearing, and beyond the exact solutions which have been made with the Medical Department, the same observation must be made in the foregoing reports for cases which have lasted more than 180 days, that is to say, in such circumstances the patient should be told how long he must wait. If we get the health folder, the simple knowledge in which the patient is placed in the waiting list is of no value if an operation date is not present, though it is approximately the same. The income guarantee system has been consolidated as a fundamental instrument to ensure social cohesion and the dignity of people living in our society. Social balance is, in our view, a greater generator of wealth than social inequality. Social protection is ultimately a source of collective wealth to which we cannot give up. The critical voices from different areas against the management of social benefits of economic content cannot make it forget that the social protection system in Euskadi has made the rates of poverty and exclusion lower than the state and European average, which has a significant impact on the cohesion and well-being of Basque society. In 2016, there has been a further increase in the number of complaints regarding Lanbide's actions, which have exceeded the number of seven hundred. This trend is confirmed as of 2017, as a very high number of complaints are still received in this area. During 2016, there have been no particularly noticeable changes in the management of GIR benefits (income guarantee) or supplementary housing benefits, except for the implementation of Circular 1/2015, on the determination of conditions for the return of unduly received benefits, which is the subject of a positive assessment by Ararteko, as well as other improvements, such as the registration of documentation in some offices. However, there is still a strong need to improve and adapt information on the requirements and obligations of benefit holders and members of the co-existence unit. This information should be made in a language that is understandable and adapted to the needs of these people. Lanbide is diligently and comprehensively reviewing compliance with the requirements and obligations to be met by claimants and recipients of benefits, sometimes carrying out a strict (too strict, according to some) interpretation of the implementing legislation. Multiple Ararteko resolutions make this clear. This scrupulous review of the files is likely to lead to delays in the granting or resumption of benefits. In this regard, despite Lanbide's efforts to improve its functioning and to have resources to enable it to function effectively, there are still delays in the processing of benefits, in particular in the review and resumption phase, as well as in the cases of changes in the amount of benefits, in relation to which it is often difficult to obtain an agile adjustment of benefits to the income claimed by the beneficiary. In the same vein, although the time limits for the resolution of administrative remedies in general have improved, in cases where an estimate of appeal is made it does not have immediate effect, despite what is recommended by Ararteko, it leads to the initiation of a new review process which in turn leads to the recognition of the benefit sometimes up to more than sixteen months after the date on which the application was made, as has been seen in some of the complaints processed by Ararteko during the reference period. It seems necessary to mention in this context that Ararteko has prepared a new report-diagnosis 2017, which contains all the interventions of the institution in relation to complaints concerning income guarantee income and supplementary housing benefit during the past legislature. As a conclusion of this diagnosis, which Ararteko has already placed in the hands of the Employment and Social Welfare Adviser, various recommendations were made to Lanbide on dates following the presentation of this annual report to the Speaker of the House. The recommendations made reflect many of those that come from the examination of individual files opened as a result of complaints processed last year by Ararteko. There is an important margin for improvement in terms of time limits for resolution and attention and information to citizens regarding the interpretation of the rules and the legal basis for resolutions, and information and clarification of concepts that are not the subject of benefit claim procedures. In addition, this institution considers the communication to the beneficiaries, in all cases, of the table indicating how and during which period undue benefits have arisen. A major problem affecting a large number of complaint files and which we are seriously concerned about is the existence of minors in cases of suspension of payment of the GIR, and the impact that the absence of economic resources has on these minors. Therefore, Ararteko has made a general recommendation concerning the mandatory consideration of the best interests of the child in public policies and in particular in the income guarantee system. The content of this recommendation is recalled in all Ararteko's interventions affecting minors, with a degree of success that so far we could qualify as mitigation. When the treaty concerning the rights of persons who have an inadequacy has been made ten years old, the interrogation demands that every administration of Basques ought to be committed, efficiently and inevitably, in order to maintain and encourage all human rights and fundamental liberties. Disabled must not suffer distinction, and must act efficiently with the obligations granted at the moment when this treaty was confirmed. This treaty distinguishes the past and the future from the respect due to the rights of the members of that especially weak group. In like manner, it must be remembered that intractableness reduces not only the economical faculty of inaction, but also that of its relatives (prepares, marriages, and posterity). For brethren are obliged to take upon themselves some additional expenses in their daily life, which limit their true income in some cases extremely limited. On the other hand, in the opinion of the intermediary, there must be several measures taken in order to appreciate the greater economic effort which must be done by both sexes and their families, in order to render them wholly social, and in order to participate in the naturalised manner. The interrogator receives a great number of consultations in the administration of the immigrants, and in the difficulty of renewing their families. Those are the kind of consultations that we're using at the service of the World News called Good Advice Network. In the opinion of the interrogators, this network allows the immigrants to be a legal adviser. This, no doubt, is a good view of the institution. Besides, it's mentioned in the report that the Ardian, by his website, has protected the strategy of many of the Basque villages against the rumors. This sense is very necessary to some persons, who are supported by the xenphobo and divestant attitude, to resist the stereotypes, lies, and views which encourage and spread over the minority of strangers and culture. An important challenge facing Basque society, to which sufficient attention must be paid today, is the adequate reception of persons seeking refuge and their subsequent integration among us. In this sense, it seems to us that access to the income guarantee system by foreign people, as well as the continuity of other programmes, such as the local network of technical immigration personnel and the support of various programmes that promote integration, social awareness and the fight against discrimination (I am referring to Aholku-Sarea, Biltzen, Era Berean...). As I have already indicated, in the case of unaccompanied foreign minors refugees, the commitment of the outlaws to advance a pilot reception plan is key, as has been claimed by this Ararteko along with the rest of the autonomous defenders of the State and Acnur. Gypsies come to this institution mainly because of difficulties in providing and maintaining housing, in accessing economic benefits and social services, as well as in enrolling in the municipal register and being considered neighbours of a municipality. Another reason for complaints is the fact that they sometimes live in neighbourhoods that have suffered a significant urban deterioration, and require the implementation of determined processes of housing regeneration. Complaints that pose problems in neighbourhood relations are also often frequent. With regard to the law of LGBTI persons, complaints had been received about administrative difficulties faced by single-parent families and problems with the registration of children of lesbian couples. Attention to gender and affective diversity in education has also been addressed. Ararteko considers it essential to agree on strategies and establish clear criteria among institutions with the capacity to intervene that place at the centre of their actions the interests and rights of these children and adolescents, in accordance with the laws and regulations for the protection of children and with the principles enshrined in international instruments for the protection of rights, as well as the equality legislation itself. With regard to public policies aimed at families, it should be noted that Ararteko strongly advocates the need to make a special effort in economic investment in families with children and daughters, in order to also promote conditions conducive to family projects, as well as the emancipation of our young people. In the economic and financial sphere, this means greater investment in family support policies, which can translate into direct support for families with children, oriented towards a universal system, or into other indirect support measures for these families, such as public provision of care and care services. In addition, the impact on families of the ageing population obliges families with older persons or those in dependency or disability to be strengthened. Specifically, I must again refer to the need to define a clear regulatory framework that recognizes and empowers public support for single-parent families, as the Basque Parliament Act 13/2008 on Family Support suffers from a lack of development at this point. In the area of older persons and care services, I would like to highlight three issues in our report. First, we have been reiterating year after year that public policies must promote the participation of older people and recognize their contribution to social transformation, giving them the role and capacity to intervene and interact that they deserve. This institution welcomes the various initiatives to which the Department of Employment and Social Policy has committed itself to this end. The active ageing strategy for Euskadi or the European Pact on Demographic Change can be relevant tools for improving the quality of life of our elderly and promoting their contribution to social welfare. Secondly, the extraordinary report on municipal social services, also presented in 2016, argued for the need for in-depth reflection on the configuration of the home help service, as well as the regulatory development of the services covered in the service delivery portfolio of the Basque social services system and the effective implementation of the corresponding map. Finally, with regard to the elderly, I would like to express the need to continue to deepen socio-health coordination, especially through the definition of a portfolio of services and the development of a greater number and variety of resources, so as to respond both to situations of dependency that have arisen and to situations of transitional dependence (convalescences, for example), and to situations of exacerbation of chronic processes of long evolution. On equality, it should be noted that we have had to regret some new cases of gender-based violence. On 23 July, Maria Aranzazu Palacios Izquierdo was murdered in Bilbao by her partner. Previously, on January 26, Alicia, a seventeen-month-old baby, was murdered in Vitoria by a acquaintance of her mother's (although this does not exactly fit the legal concept of gender-based violence, it is certainly an infanticide directed against the mother as well). The strong reaction of Basque society and its public authorities to such crimes, and to sexual assaults in general, denotes a growing social sensitivity to these cases, which opens the door to the hope of a Basque society exempt from gender-based violence in the future. Despite the enormous and undeniable progress that has been made in the area of equality between women and men, the truth is that in 2016 in the Basque Country, as in the rest of the world, women are still at a disadvantage compared to men, especially in the labour and economic spheres. The higher unemployment rate of women, the persistence of gender-based violence, the feminization of poverty, the stubborn persistence of stereotypes that harm women in certain areas, the difficulties in access to justice... all of this justifies the need for the public authorities to be actively involved in achieving this objective of equality, through the promotion of positive actions and the integration of the gender perspective into the economic and social structure. There are also difficulties in the full participation and visibility of women in the fields of leisure, culture, holidays, art and sport. These are areas where efforts are still needed to increase the presence and visibility of women. It's one of the weakest groups of our society that's prisoned. Therefore, when we demand transferance from the jurisdictions of the prison, we must warn every citizen that prison is not a distant institution, and that we must bear the responsibility of the fact. In this respect, therefore, the view of this transition is our work, of course, that the view of the United States is agreed that when the change was announced, it would be necessary to incorporate the reality of the colonies into the community, by the influence of our autonomical institutions, fortals, and local services, to enter into the ordinary web of the services which they organize and govern. 2016. In the year the Ardal Institution has insisted that the resources of our head and health are to be attended to by all the members of the Esunomical Euscal Autonomy, that is to say, with a chronic psychiatric psychiacy in the case of judicial penalties, or consequently of punishment or measures. Besides, they ought to have an opportunity of paying attention, leaving the court where the punishment is placed and where the jurisdiction is situated. In order to solve the complaints which have been made to the law administration, there have been some structural privations in the past year. To overcome them, this institution seems to have been to make changes in three respects: The strict design of judicial departments, which limits the jurisdictional cooperation of the limits of each judicial party, limits the attention of the jurisdiction between the headlines and the court of single-men in the provinces of the courts of justice; Not enough specialized courts. The model of the organic planet is to be renewed, by creating trial courts. It should be stressed that the gradual application of the subjective right to decent housing, in compliance with the fourth transitional provision of Law 3/2015 on Housing, is in the eyes of Ararteko a favorable measure that has undoubtedly contributed during 2016 to the well-being of many families at serious risk of residential exclusion or with a continuing need for access to the enjoyment of adequate housing. This institution has insisted over the past year on requesting Basque public administrations to expand the public protection housing stock, in order to respond adequately to the challenges set out in this law and to meet the demands of public tenants who, over time, require a rental housing of a larger size or different configuration. Given the legal link of old age in the registration of applicants for protected housing and accommodation with the recognition of the subjective right to the legal occupation of a decent home and the enjoyment of certain economic benefits, Ararteko will carry out the timely follow-up of the commitment adopted by the Basque Government, according to which from this year the refusals of the registrations and the resolutions of the casualties of the said registration will be practiced in an individualized manner and with full respect for the formal guarantees. Coordination between public administrations with competence in the areas of housing and social assistance is a guarantee for the protection of the most vulnerable people and groups, and an essential tool to prevent residential exclusion. With regard to citizen security, it should be stressed that the police function is one of the most important in any democratic society, because it is aimed at guaranteeing the exercise of rights and freedoms by citizens, ensuring security and citizen peace and combating crime. We would therefore like to emphasize and thank the work of the Ertzaintza officers and agents, as well as the local police, who are the police officers over whom Ararteko exercises his powers. The complaints dealt with this year have again raised recurring issues that have already arisen in other years, in relation to the exercise of police management, the internal investigation of allegedly incorrect actions, the proportionate use of force and its internal control, and the control of attestations and administrative complaints as to the facts that motivate them. They have also raised issues related to detention, street identification and police interventions with people suffering from mental illness. In the Ararteko resolution of 20 December last year we refer to all these situations. We have many complaints about traffic sanctions. In this regard, it must be stressed that police reports on traffic accidents must indicate faithfully whether or not the officers witnessed the accident; they must sufficiently justify the hypothesis they set out on the causes of the accident, detail the elements that the officers take into account in formulating it, and explain why these elements lead to the assessment being made, in order to enable the parties concerned and other potential recipients of the report to know as accurately as possible what happened and the motivation for the assumptions that the agents have drawn up. The reports that this institution has monitored this year fail in too many cases to meet these requirements. As to the environment, the district has constantly told the administration of the Basque Government that the demands of the environment must be discussed and solved in the periods prescribed by the regulation which regulates the right of obtaining information in the area of the local world. The expanding of the environmental information in the active mode guarantees transparency and fosters the population's intervention as to the state of certain environmental elements. Between these elements there are air, atmosphere, water, soil, landscapes and landscapes. The interrogator knows that the sound attacks the people's vital quality. Hence it has been remembered that it is important to encourage the control of environment, in order to ensure the constitutional rights which may be applied to water by the impact of sound. These measures have been collected in a declorous defence of the right which the citizens have of making a house without noise, and this decloy has been prepared for public powers, and all the defenders of the people of the autonomy communities and even the deficitors of the Spanish people have consented to it. As far as language rights are concerned, while complaints remain in the police, judicial and health fields, we must account for the improvement observed in their management by the public authorities. In this sense, there has been more collaboration in 2016 and new planning tools have been adopted that incorporate some of the criteria that Ararteko has been proposing in this area. The state administration's attention in Basque remains a source of complaint, and the degree of compliance with the measures recommended by the European Committee for Regional or Minority Languages and also the Ararteko is insufficient. Among the sports complaints, most have referred to public policies to promote sports and leisure activities carried out by minors. The information gathered for its resolution makes it possible to identify three areas for improvement. The colonies and free-time experiences organized for boys and girls, in turn to the information provided to parents about situations of illness or misadaptation. In relation to sport practiced in pre-school sports ages, reference should be made to general recommendation 2/2016, in which Ararteko called on the municipalities to ensure that sports activities organized in their municipalities for girls and boys, and in particular in pre-school sports years, were based on educational, participatory and non-competitive criteria. The Ararteko has finally highlighted the problems of enrolling children born in other countries in federated sport. In the year 2016, some people have asked us to appeal to the people of the country, especially when they have not given them an answer to the use of the right to the active publicity, or when they have given an incomplete answer. At such times this institution has performed the functions of watching and inspecting euscal popular administrations, our 3/1985 laws of the 27th of February, which are produced and regulated by the law of Artalia in general. In the case of the intermediary, they have not taken enough steps in a given area, and with transparency it would be an important addition to the legal regulations around them. This is a field where you regulate the interest groups and register the lobby. For protection of data, you must proceed when people are asking for those measures which make personal data available to eliminate the Internet. I'm getting faster, because if you don't... I'd like to mention other activities, as well as the ogasun, the victims, the laborers in the popular administration, the legal system of administration, the organization of economic activity, and so on, but it's impossible for me to explain this time. And therefore I ask you to consider the yearly report, or at least the consequences of each part of it, in order that you may have a general view. At least I should like to speak of the various activities and enterprises which the Arrians have performed among the nations, as I promised when I obtained my business. In order to fulfil my work, I have gradually attempted to introduce the international and European side of human rights, by discovering and establishing certain international tools concerning human rights, by strengthening the relationship with two or one-sided institutions which guarantee rights, and, in short, endeavoring to support the rights and liberties of the rights of the rulers, to render them more visible and visible. Even in the past year, we've made a strong bet to protect human rights in order to strengthen our relationship with international institutions, and that's how we'll stay for the next few years. We've had relations with IOI (International Ombsman Instimate), EENO (Euro under Network of Ombusdmen), OIF (Ombudsmen'th American Federation), with the International Society and two side relations of the Mandataries and other international institutions and other European countries. Besides, we've penetrated relationships and simultaneous initiatives with the United States defense institutions. Also, we have introduced into our own websites the international institutions of the human rights, the doctrines, and other editions. I'll finish it. In conclusion, I want to thank those who serve in the Ardio organization for their zeal and commitment. To finish my speech, I want to thank you for your attention, and to ask you to follow me, in order to fulfil the duties given to this legislature by the State and by the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u2	Thank you, Mr. Ardala. After that, we're going to the congressmen's turn. It's gonna be 15 minutes' shift, and Mrs. Bengoche, representing the Potula team, will begin. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u3	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Good morning, everyone. Both in the Commission on Human Rights and here we have had the pleasure of attending to Ararteko with great attention. In a perfect society and in perfect administrations there would be no need to have an arteko. One wonders: Why is Ararteko? For what? For Ararteko, first of all, is a confession that prides us – not that he prides us, but that he honors us all – of knowing that administrations, human things, are not perfect, and that, therefore, someone has to ensure better perfection. And the Ararteko for that is, to ensure that the administrations remain at the root of the greatest correction within their actions. I believe that this Ararteko presentation should be of particular concern to the Government. Because, although we are all proud to have an arteko and to see how well your department, your office, and to see how well represented we are in international meetings, in fact what the Arteko does is to give earshots to governments. And, therefore, it is the governments that have to be truly concerned. And because of the data we have, yes, I believe that governments, and particularly the Basque Government, must be concerned. Because, look, first, the consultations have gone up to Ararteko (that's what he told us, we have the data here). We have eight thousand and peak consultations with the Ararteko; that means that every day, if we divide between 365 (logically the working days are less, but taking every day of the year), means that twenty-two or twenty-three citizens approach the Ararteko to file a complaint. That should concern us all, and in particular, as I say, the Basque Government, because those 8,000 and peak consultations are earshots. And there we could ask ourselves a possibility: well, it's that people complain about everything, it's that people are not right, everything seems like aggression and it's unjustified. Well, to see if that's true we're going to go to the results that Ararteko offers us by areas. I'm not going to quote them all, because there's a lot of them. The first one I'm going to quote is the environmental area, which is the best stop. In the area of environment, from the consultations that took place, Ararteko found that the performance had been incorrect in twenty-two cases, and not incorrect in ten. And in the economic area, which is the best result, Ararteko tells us that the performance had been wrong in two, and not wrong in eight. But then we go to the rest of the areas and we can check that people don't complain about complaining. Because, for example, in justice the Ararteko tells us that the wrong performance of the Administration has been twelve times, and the right performance only one. Here we see that he's trying 13 performances. Then we can't say, "It's that people complain about everything, it's that people aren't right." No, no, You're right! Of course, if we're going to work, then imagine. But in the same healing, of the complaints that he receives and analyzes the Ararteko, he ends up failing that wrongs have been thirty-one, and correct twenty-one. That is, we take fifty-two complaints, and let's see if people complain about complaining: no, because Ararteko himself fails that in quite more than half (thirty-one) there has been an incorrect action by the Administration. And we are concerned about this, that we have an Ararteko who oversees our administration, which is the government that passes an examination every time Ararteko comes here to inform us. This is the review of the Government, far beyond the split that the groups can do. No, no."It's an institution that examines the government, and I'm sorry to say it, but the government doesn't go well. It doesn't go well standing. Let's see, the Ararteko fails in two ways. One, fails by suggesting things, and these are minor flaws, because, to say it in a word, what you have detected is that things could be done better. But then it fails in another way, which is with the recommendations, and these are important. Because when do you recommend something? When there has been a violation of the law, when there has been an irregularity, when there has been a serious omission, or when you are forced to make a reminder of legality. I mean, when Ararteko fails a recommendation, gentlemen, we're in trouble, because he's telling us there's a violation of the order, irregularities, serious omissions, reminders of legality. And do you know what we do with those recommendations that are serious? So let's go to everything about the area of social inclusion, which is 30% of those failures that he makes. Well, of those recommendations, two are accepted, and action is taken accordingly, but thirteen are rejected. Thirteen recommendations of the Ararteko are rejected, which is talking about violation of the law, irregularities, serious omissions, and reminds us of the legality in force. Well, I am speaking in plural, but I should not; I should refer to the government, because it is them, it is the government, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, the subjects of these rejections of recommendations. In Osakidetza two recommendations are not accepted, in Euskotren one recommendation, and in Health three recommendations and one suggestion. And then we have the earrings: there are some that simply bounce, don't answer them. So, gentlemen of the government, this is your examination. You have been examined, we have seen how those who go to Ararteko on quite more than half the time the Ararteko says his complaints are substantiated, and are based on incorrect action on his part. We'd have to worry about that. But what worries me most is that you reject recommendations. If a recommendation is a warning of legality and is a warning of the breakdown of the legal system, logically the citizen has no choice but to go to trial, and that for his part is a cruelty, because to a citizen to whom Ararteko has already told him that he has been the victim of an incorrect action on his part, and also an action that has violated the legality, you send him to fight not like David against Goliath, because David at least had a depth, but as... well, I don't know, a mosquito against an elephant: money, time, etcetera, etcetera. We have the Ararteko, among other reasons, so that citizens do not have to go to trial. And you with these figures (because I remind you that we are talking about recommendations) are pushing the courts or frustration, grudge at the administration, anger, a lot of citizens. To a lot of citizens. So, I think that here the political groups... Our political group will, of course, do so, and it will ask you to explain why you do not accept the recommendations of the Ararteko. I no longer refer to the suggestions, because the suggestions at the end of the day are a better way to do it, and I understand that the complexity of the departments at best does not allow that excellent to be done, because the departments are complex. But the recommendations... Why do you reject warnings of legality? That's what frankly has me... I don't understand. I remind you: in social care you have rejected thirteen recommendations. What is going to happen to those people, who are also the most vulnerable people? Do you reject them because you know that these people do not have the capacity to go to trial? It's just not understandable! So, I finish my speech here by making a summary. This is an examination of the government. And we can see the half full or half empty bottle, but our obligation is to know that the bottle must always be full. And this bottle isn't full, this bottle has a lot of faults, it has a lot of holes that leak the liquid. And you are rejecting and ignoring warnings of legality, and that is very serious. It is true that it is not like a legal warning that the legal services of the House could do us, because that would also have a name within the criminal sphere, which is the prevarication, but the Ararteko remains an arbitrator and a liaison between the citizens and their governments, and is telling you that you are not acting in accordance with the law. And all you do is reject or ignore. I think you owe us an explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Counsellors, advisers, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all of you. The future must not be an extension of our present, and in order for it not to be, we must place conditions on it, orient it towards the directions we set ourselves. This requires an effort of anticipation, own and other experiences that help us, because by investigating others present we will find some of the keys that we lack and we will decipher the challenges that await us. At that point of convergence have been, are and will be, in our opinion, the functions of the Ararteko, between the social situation of the people and the responsibilities they exercise today. The social situation of people – who I do not discover to present and present nothing new – understood as an X-ray of the state they occupy in society and the unequal and unjust, harmful or discriminatory circumstances that affect them: the lack of employment opportunities, cultural conditions, the lack of access rights to the health system, to decent housing, to social services, to the means of transport, to retirement...; in short, of effective, sustained and sustainable access and enjoyment of their human rights, without discrimination or exclusion. It is true that we live in a globalized world, it is true that there are new challenges, but it is also true that the institution of Ararteko, with generosity, has been adapting, and must continue to adapt, to the new demands of Basque society. The work that he has done in his various interventions, not only in the ordinary of 2016, but in the various extraordinary reports that his lordships already know, with regard to human rights, is essential to place Basque citizens in the standards of democratic decency that we want to achieve. And that goes from the unwavering positioning with fundamental human rights such as life, freedom and dignity (which are the so-called civil rights), to so-called economic, social and cultural rights, or third-generation rights. But at the moment let me tell you today that there are also elections in a very near country in which the vote has been called for, in violation of human rights conventions, to prioritize security, and to say that if Ararteko has done a fundamental job in this respect we will continue to demand it. Because what is clear to us in the Basque and Basque Socialists is that there is no civilization without human rights, neither here nor in the United Kingdom. After that, I cannot forget the work of Ararteko as a cohabitation agent in our country. And I'll explain. We have emerging challenges to Basque citizenship, which imposes multiculturalism, and I believe that their actions can contribute to making these fundamental rights more than just a document or more than rhetoric in political discourse. I believe that it can help the Secretariat for Human Rights, the Commission on Human Rights and the Government itself and Parliament in this work. Because the Ararteko, and those others who have preceded him in the directly entrusted functions and in others who have taken over, must be placed in the situation of those most disadvantaged, most excluded and who have suffered in their own flesh inequality and lack of social cohesion in the days following the crisis and in these wakes of the crisis, which have not yet been overcome by those people. In short, Mr Ararteko, who will have to reinvent himself and continue to undertake this work of defending human rights, because for us this work is a sign of democratic decency and makes him go beyond being an instrument of citizen participation, but instead makes him a means of legitimizing the institutions, of trusting the citizens in those institutions and – I repeat – as an agent in favour of human rights, which, as I have said, have different aspects. Within this defence of human rights and its work in Basque citizenship, I would like to point out to you a recommendation on behalf of the Socialist Group, which is its collaboration and intervention in the fight against marginalization, discrimination, inequality and xenophobia. That, in the face of inequality, exclusionary discourses are not made successful, but that discourses are all those that generate an eagerness to integrate that new citizenship into what Basque society is. I believe that this is the work of Ararteko, above and beyond being able to ensure that access to public services on equal terms and on conditions of excellence is done by all people on equal terms. There we need Ararteko, and we will continue to need him in the future. Personally, I also believe that both he and his colleagues' work in other autonomous communities, at the state level and also in international organizations, has always seemed suggestive; he highlights the profile of a critical collaborator of authority, without complacency and with innovative rebellion for the vision of overcoming difficulties. Of course, it makes recommendations, and most of them are also met in one way or another. It is that, if not, he would also be doing a work that is not complacent with all that we require of him. But, in addition to those recommendations, as a human rights defender, as a defender of the fight against discrimination, and as a defender of keeping Basque citizens in decent democratic standards, it seems fundamental to us. And I am going to the report in particular, which I have highlighted some of the issues, because we do not have the forty-five minutes that the Ararteko has laid down, nor do I believe that the other people have not read or met it. I hope that this is not just a question of parliamentarians, who are affected in this debate, but of others. It is true that there is an increase in the number of actions of the institution (70 % between 2010 and 2016), of the interventions, in addition to 6,000 to almost 11,000 in 2016. This shows again the enormous preaching that the institution has among the people of Euskadi, preaching that is undoubtedly due to continuous and serious work throughout these thirty years of experience. It also leads us to another reflection: that even in the worst moments of our crisis (economic, but also values) citizens have turned to this institution in search of help, dialogue and solutions. Moreover, by analysing the figures themselves, in which we see that only 50% is due to poor administration practice, we must conclude that citizens seek to be heard and received by the administrations, which is not always the case. Sometimes (we still believe that too many), the response from the various administrations involved has been – to put it mildly – not entirely adequate. Even at some point there is a form of public action that is still a little overpowering and distant with the citizen service that I believe we all want. Secondly, we also point out – because, if not, we would be obviating a reality – that most of the complaints are located and go to the area of defense and access to the Basque system of social services, related to the different areas, from social inclusion, immigration, mental illness, childhood, elderly... Within this area there has been an increase, and I know that everyone is going to point out, exponentially those dossiers which have to do with social exclusion, and those relating to the operation of Lanbide. But it is also true that there is a report by Ararteko on this, and it is also true that we have begun to work in the Basque Government and Parliament, highlighting the willingness not only of the Government, but of all the parliamentary forces, in that responsibility which rests with us all, to put in place the consensus and dialogue necessary to give the best response to the citizenry. From the Socialist Group we show our absolute readiness, because we believe that an opportunity is being opened for us all to join in broad consensus to seek the shielding of the Basque social protection system, one of the greatest achievements of our self-government, which must be guaranteed for decades to come. A diagnosis has been presented, it is going to be studied within the paper, and I believe that at least at the moment, which is the starting point, efforts must be made to unravel the opposing positions and to achieve those necessary consensuses with the aim of shielding that Basque system of social services, which confirms us as a reference within Europe and within the State. Nor can I fail to recall an aspect that I think is fundamental to the Ararteko report, which has to be referred to by the Office for Children and Adolescents, to which I am also extremely grateful for its contributions. In particular, I want to make visible the diagnosis made by Ararteko, and to voice one of the worst attacks, which occurs not one day, but every day by democratic society, which is macho violence, because, not one more or one less, it also requires saying something more and doing something more. It is also to value what each institution does, and we value from here what the institution of Ararteko has done, because I believe that it is precisely part of an issue that we have also pointed out different actors in this rostrum: macho violence anchors its pillars in inequality. And in inequality and in addressing that inequality is where we can begin to care more and better for women and children and children who are affected by this democratic deficit. I am not going to quote the figures, because I do not know whether a representative or a public representative can assume the figures of dead women and children affected by such violence without blushing for not having placed on the priority and urgency of active policies to deal with that debate. But I will say that I am satisfied that Ararteko has placed him on one of his priorities when he is working for children and adolescents. Those are the issues that we wanted to underline. We know that there is a strong pull of Ararteko's ears to get us to work on those complaints focused on social services and access to them. We believe that we must also emphasize that this access is equal for all citizens, regardless of how they have become part of our society, where they come from and when they have come from. And we want the Ararteko to continue to help women and minors affected by male-based violence and aggressions that also have to do with, like sexual violence, very directly with that male-based violence – I say again, now that I have the opportunity to talk, again and again – in an inequality that has to be faced as a priority of this institution, of the Basque Government and of all the governments that, I understand, consider themselves democratic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. We represent the Podemos team together. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u7	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr. Ar intercom and his teammates for explanations. Your work in 2016 has been very great, and we want to congratulate you, above all, in order to do so well. Dakizuenez, gure iritziz, herritarren eskubideen defendsan Arartekoa ezinbesteko erakundea da. And it seems to be not just in our opinion, but in an increasingly sense of citizenship. In the light of the data we see how in 2009 Ararteko performed 6,213 performances, which have been increasing progressively until reaching almost 11,000 in 2016. Thus, the magnitude of the service that this institution is providing to the citizenry is growing, legitimizing itself in its mission and exceedingly fulfilling its main task of serving the citizenry in relation to complaints, demands or consultations about the public administration. As the Ararteko has commented, a total of 8,240 services have been processed, and more than ninety meetings have been held. But not only this: in 2016 they have also produced an extraordinary report of the social services that we have been able to address in committee, days from which very interesting material has been extracted in matters such as youth or asylum... But they have also worked hard to get materials that have seen the light in early 2017. And all this, said in passing, with a budget of 11% lower than that of the institution in 2009. We understand that this has had to involve an effort and an overload of the institution, which at least deserves to be commented upon and publicly thanked. Zuen wool ezinbastekoa yes. In addition to our thanks, we understand that these data deserve to be thrown into this Parliament, because if we do not worry and do not deal with what is our responsibility, we run the risk that the Ararteko institution will become, for lack of resources, a mere office for receiving and processing complaints. From Elkarrekin We can always work in defense of the Ararteko, and we will do so because we understand that its role is fundamental. That it is essential that our Ararteko remains a proactive institution in the evaluation of public policies, that it remains a benchmark of professionalism, and that it remains impeccable in its independence in the defence of human rights. And for this, there's no doubt, it takes money. Having said that, I would like to focus on the content of the report, bearing in mind that a fifteen-minute presentation makes it difficult to address all the issues it touches on. Go ahead and apologize, Mr. Lezertua, and your team, for the things that I'm sure I'll leave behind. Looking at this report, it is worth saying first of all what we welcome as our main concern, which is that 36,59 % of the complaints received are on matters falling within the Department of Employment and Social Policy (it is a pity that Mrs Artolazabal is not here today): 759 complaints, ladies and gentlemen, 759 relate to matters arising from the economic benefits of the Income Guarantee Act and for Social Inclusion; 759 complaints and many recommendations, in addition to a specific report that we will have the opportunity to address shortly, so that in the proposal to improve the government's regulations only a few are collected, and in detail. Worrying. Worrying because, in the opinion of Elkarrekin Podemos, solving cases individually is not a solution, but a patch. Either we are serious about the issues that have to do with the management of Lanbide, or these bad practices denounced by social groups and which find support in Ararteko's complaints and recommendations will continue to occur. Worrying because the proposals for improvement are not going to fix 759 complaints, but, and above all, worrisome because by deaf ears we are putting a very vulnerable part of this society at risk, and we must not allow that. Worrying because, we repeat, for us this system is fundamental, I understand that as for the rest of the groups in this House. And, following on from this topic, we consider some issues worth highlighting. On income guarantee income refusal decisions, and some procedures and times that are named in the report, we cannot consent to the rejection of claims that have been systematic since Lanbide took over the management of the GIR. The law, as it cannot be otherwise, is about to be enforced, and more a law that directly affects the welfare of more than 130,000 people in Euskadi. A responsible administration cannot hide information, modify the regulations at its own will and create from nothing criteria and sanctions that are not covered by the law, which is what we draw from some of the issues contained in this report. In this sense, we endorse the recommendation made by Ararteko, in which he says that Lanbide makes an extensive interpretation of the normative forecasts, especially in those cases where there are more than enough reasons to justify the actions of the people, who again seem to have nothing to say in something as central in their lives as the livelihood they receive. In this regard, we would also like to highlight the complaints made about the treatment of self-employed women, single-maritime families, persons with disabilities, migrants, stateless persons, refugees... In addition to this, and without wishing to give a protagonism to what it does not touch today, it seems to us essentially serious what has to do with the dramatic effects on people's lives of the fact that Lanbide does not respect the scrupulous way that administrative procedures presuppose. And I am not inventing this; if you read it carefully, it is an important part of what the Ararteko report contains. We take with interest what we have to say about the tension between the push to achieve activation of work and the worsening of the exclusion situation resulting from the suspension of benefits, as well as the call for attention which comes to say that people in a situation of serious exclusion do not receive financial benefits, do not accept them. This concerns us, because with proposals such as those put forward on 31 May these situations can be further aggravated, and the contradiction expressed by Ararteko in his report would become insurmountable. We have the opportunity to reflect and attend to nothing less than the more than 59,000 people who are asking for help and attention and who are staying out. In this regard, we also consider that we are in a time of opportunity to collect the more than sensible, essential recommendations that can be drawn from this great work that has been done by Ararteko, to build a fairer income guarantee system. Because – and I use this rostrum to answer – it is a shame that Mr Lehendakari has left, which for him radicalism is to defend that 650 euros is not enough for a dignified life. For us, that's common sense. Our elderly with minimum pensions, single-maritime families, cannot be hostages to their pacts. I see extremism when a character like Maroto sees satisfied some of his requests. Extremeism is listening to the employer and the People's Party rather than to social organizations and movements. We, without extremism, are going to promote a ferocious defence of the right to a life worthy of those who pass it the worst. What the Government is doing, in the light of the proposals on the subjective right to the income guarantee, is to put patches. I hope to be able to work for this to change, sincerely, and we hope to do so, no doubt, with essential space for the Ararteko in this. And to put the GIR aside, and bearing in mind that we cannot stop today in a detailed analysis of everything that this report contains, we are very concerned about the fact that recommendations that are supposed to be accepted are not taken into account, or that these are not applied despite what has been said, together with the reflection in which Ararteko invites Lanbide to review the response times given to them. This is worrying, but above all an irresponsibility that must be tackled immediately. We cannot allow an institution that is to safeguard the rights of citizens and that works tirelessly for the impeccability of the public administration to say things and look elsewhere. An example of this and an issue that we have to say here loud and clear is what is reflected in the report on the need to consider incorporating the best interests of the child in public policies, and also specifically in the income guarantee system. A recommendation we know comes from 2015, but it continues to be kept in the annual reports to date, because it remains unimplemented. This recommendation sets out clear guidelines on how to incorporate the implementation of obligations established by the Committee on the Rights of the Child, as well as regulations on this subject, but the response of the Department of Employment and Social Policy is contrary to what might be expected. Lanbide argues that if children are deprived of their care as a result of suspensions or terminations of benefits, social services could take care of them. They're wrong about this. They're wrong because it's said in the children's legislation. They are wrong, just as the Chamber responds. We see how Lanbide is throwing a ball out, and that ball is nothing less than a minor with serious difficulty in seeing his needs covered. But the family for this government is a priority, less bad! This recommendation, I repeat in case it has not been made clear to them, is from 2015 and is still not accepted. On this same issue, focusing for example on access to justice, we are concerned about other rights that are being violated, because procedural requirements are not being combined with the zeal that should be given to child protection criteria. It is essential that recommendations such as those put on the Save the Children table last Monday, that there be friendly spaces, both in justice and security, for minors, especially in this and in the absence of specific records, as well as the fact that it is not intended to prevent secondary victimization. But it is also, in the light of this report, that we agree with the Ararteko that the reading of the current justice policies takes into account the minor at the time when this conflict with the law, without paying attention to prevention as a premise, and the minor as a victim, which is usually a step ahead of what comes next. Focusing on issues related to equality, and as Ararteko has said, despite the enormous and undeniable progress, both in Euskadi and in the rest of the world there is still work to be done. In Elkarrekin We can do this is a central issue. We are concerned that, if we do not pay attention and do not put our hands to the work with seriousness and a budgetary and political bet, we are neglecting something crucial. We see this in recommendations such as those relating to victims of macho violence, who express their feelings of helplessness. We cannot allow those who flee from something like macho violence to be helpless. We cannot allow this Basque oasis to make water in reality. Moving on to another subject such as education, we see fundamental complaints that have to do with management problems. We insist: it is not just about investing, but about investing better. Citizenship states that this is a priority, and therefore we understand that it is essential to ensure the participation of this citizenship, not only in education, since Ararteko has demonstrated good relations with this department, but in general. Let's work with people to let them tell us what the rules and procedures are that don't work. Let us listen to them, and help make our administration a better place for all. Taking advantage of this, I also wanted to mention something that concerns us in terms of linguistic policy and culture, despite the improvements, and are the differences in access between some municipalities and others to language learning. We believe that the Basque Government has a leading role in the defence and promotion of Basque as a good of all. We insist that it will be all of us and for all of us. It's essential that we become useful. And to lighten up, I'm running out of time, just a couple of notes. In this report we see an increase in or maintenance of complaints and complaints related to non-access to fundamental rights, and we believe that this deserves our preferential attention. Specifically, we see with concern, that we understand shared with the Ararteko, the difficulties of access to social services, the right to housing, the right to health... In particular, in the area of housing it mentions the caution in the development of the decree regulating housing and in the situation of the public housing park, because of the consequences that these things can have on the real access to the subjective right of Basque citizens. With regard to access to health, we also see recommendations that have to do with access to the system for foreigners, but also for the most vulnerable people in a situation of social exclusion. Difficulties that we understand must be addressed immediately and as a priority. In conclusion, we make a more than positive assessment of this report, because we believe that the work done by Ararteko and his team is impeccable. We also consider that it gives us more than enough material to strengthen and focus the direction of our work, because it is a demonstration of where the difficulties and concerns of citizens are. We also understand that this report gives a lot of clues and a lot of work, especially to the Government, to the public administration, so that they can be impeccable, efficient and effective in the performance of their work. I think we have the challenge of being brave. Let us try to pick up the glove that Mr Lezertua throws at us today, let us try to take care of our Ararteko and his excellent work, and, most importantly, let us listen to him and thus safeguard the rights of the citizenry. Elkarrekin Podemos' hand is stretched out to work and improve on all those aspects in which we have detected failures. Thank you. Just like that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u9	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. First of all, we would like to be grateful for the introduction of the intermediary. We'll begin to notice, as the other spokesmen have, that the public worries have increased 70%, for many reasons, but above all because the smokes on economic society stations have been a great influence. Our opinion is that in 2016 even the economic crisis has been more prominent, and that the backs of the weakest individuals and groups are loaded. The crisis has revealed the value of solidarity and dignity, the desire of social justice, but we might say that we have also seen very opposite attitudes to Artate, and that it may have been the chief sign of the past during the last few months of the settlement of income. The activities which have nothing to do with justice and solidarity have set up a very contemptible and intolerable drop-tong strategy, unfortunately, which has produced a great influence among the people. And in this context it is essential to the cry of Artia, the cry for the efficient and eulogizing function of social institutions, because it is essential that the work which can be done from institutions should be made for society, cohesion, equity, and social justice. Though the discussion of the revenues of the revenue is of great importance, our party thinks that the discussion of the needs of society ought to be placed in a larger frame. And coming to the necessities of persons, it seems essential to us to emphasize other elements which call attention. In the report that "a duty to consider the chief interest of the minor police in public, received in the continuation of the General 2/2015 Gomendius, April 8th of April, is not to be observed in all the terms of the revenue system." In this sense, though the profession has expressed a different interpretation or view of this, our party calls it that we are about an element which cannot be discussed, especially when 40% of the smokes received in the Child and Young People's Office are connected with the economic prevention of the last poverty and difference, knowing that the Incest of the Incretions are concentrated on families with children of poverty. Hence it appears to us that the chief interest of the minors is to extend to all the administrative assemblies of the people. And often inequalities do not exist only in the economic sphere or in the coverage of basic needs; there are also gaps in such specific and illogical areas, in our view, as action in the attention to affective-sexual and gender diversity in the educational sphere. There is a clear reference to the lack of teaching material and even the lack of training on the part of the teacher to address these situations correctly and with criteria. On the other hand, the contract has also published a special report on the state of municipal service in 2016. It is evident that the growth of the laws of social services is more slow than they please. The uneasiness of different agents in the system of adaptation and adaptation which are required in the conduct of the law, has been explained by different agents in different forums, and revealed the reports of the intermediary in the same line: the weakness of the access to social services, the differences in the townships of social service, the ignorance of the population around the financial model, the retrogression of the general character of the public social services, and the privations of the leadership and co-ordination of the mad-goat functions. However, this year's report has also established the principles of social authority in the region of energy, and it seems incredible to us that many people have difficulty in keeping a proper temperature in their homes in cold months. And, despite these economic items for NGO subsidies or social emergency aid, it is certainly an issue that we believe we should resolve as soon as possible. And we will repeat something that we have already made visible in the committee: there are many issues, complaints, recurring serious situations that are repeated year by year in the field of social inclusion and in many others. That is why we have the feeling that within a year we will again denounce exactly the same situations. On the other hand, even if we get quite well from those comparisons we make with the state, the data we've known in the past is dramatic, so that all alerts can be started. And this comparison, as we have often said, is a mere autocommoncisity. The system to guarantee incomes and in general the eucalyptic systems of social services are now exposed to danger. And our society is a sign that collapses. The social war spreads, and ours is a phenomenon which is to stop the most violent poverty. As a society, it places us in the presence of one of the greatest challenges in our hands. The answer to this challenge, in the opinion of the EH team, demands a deep and shared reflection about the modern social and euscal protection system. We must take it boldly, with seriousness, with responsibility, and, in the same way, with courage, seriousness, and responsibility, we must get to the environment. A special quotation about the oil-preparation plant in Muskiz. There's no further examination of the Kex expedition. After we get an answer from the Environment Department, the measures are taken from environmental control. We must remember that the intermediary has already intervened with regard to these indulgences. He put some accounts on the table, among which he proposed to construct a table for tracking the environmental control, and the problem, even in this case, has not been solved. On the other hand, the Department of Safety and Security, as in previous years, has received the most complaints from departments, as we believe it is opposed to surveys that ensure that Ertzaintza is one of the institutions that are best valued by citizens. The most frequent problems remain – and that is not yet corrected – the delay in providing the information, the lack of response to issues on which Ararteko is interested, and the failure to submit the requested documentation. During the committee meeting a few days ago Ararteko shared the concern of this group about the problems that have been detected in the video recording systems in the Ertzaintza centers that they have been able to visit. And we find it grave that this system does not meet the conditions that it believes this mechanism must have in order to be effective. And it is that the cameras do not record or collect one hundred percent of the itinerary that the police vehicle runs through within the precinct of the police station, among other issues. In general, therefore, Ararteko's proposals on videotaping of arrests have not been incorporated again, which was reflected in the 2011 general recommendation six years ago. Another example of the repeated non-compliance with many of the recommendations made by Ararteko. On the other hand, Monsieur Lezerta shared the concern for the transfer of the prison policy which we are now working on. He said plainly that he hoped to accomplish it quickly, but, as we know, it was a matter which had not been accomplished and received in the State of Guernica. And on this subject, we add the attitude of prison policy which is carried on by the Government of Madrid, especially when this policy rests on the denial of these rights, namely, traslads, punishments, destiny, and the case of the poor prisoners. Orin de la gutxi Legebiltzar honetan berriro era Ibon Iparragireren egoera salatou da. Urte asko darmagu arrested Honen egora salatzen, Eta oraindik Madrilen dago, zoritxarrez. An unjust, inhuman and unsustainable situation. And, like him, unfortunately there are many Basque prisoners and prisoners who are deprived of their liberty even though they are seriously ill and ill. And speaking of sick and sick, although from another area, of course (from their homes in this case), in the area of health we find ourselves in this report of the Ararteko with different concerns that have been and are the subject of work of this parliamentary group, such as the concern shown by the lack of health and pharmacological care by foreign people, especially in the case of minors, as a result of the Royal Decree-Law 16/2012. They are also a source of concern and complains like those in this group about waiting lists, and so many other matters that we cannot detail due to lack of time. But we have to say that somehow it is a comfort to this group to share those concerns and proposals with the Ararteko, which contrasts with the parliamentary loneliness in which we tend to find ourselves every time we address these issues. We have but a limited time, but we don't want to end without mentioning the rights of language; the rights of the eroscals in this time, no doubt, are still broken up. It cannot be that in this country where we have two official languages the speaker eupscals should always complain to support our right, because we have not the right to support it, as is the case in all quarters where we cannot live, in security, in Osapartes, or at work. And this is not a subjective imagination of the people, but an objective and concrete reality. Towards the end, we would like to end with a request: Let the intermediary act to promote solidarity with people who are in a serious financial situation. For it is time to decide whether health, home, education, human rights, social rights, and ideas, are rights in public, or merely privileges reserved for the prosperity of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Eubertarians represent the team. Mrs. Beragon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. I would like to begin my speech by giving thanks to the interrogator, and showing the respect of our party. Mr. Lezera has given us an account of what the organization which conducts the year 2016 has done, and has done so also, at the Commission of Human Rights and Equality 15 days ago. Here we talked broadly about the report and the report about children and teenagers, and each team had the opportunity of explaining our position and our opinions and positions, and the opportunity to ask the interrogator's questions and receive his answers. 1985. We may say, from the time of the year, that the institution of the intermediary has been consolidated for years, as well as for the public and for the Administration, for the anxiety or complaint of the people, and even for the administration, because the recommendations which are derived from the organization of the Arlare, help the administration to improve the service of the people, and to bring the administration itself to perfection. If we look at the activities of the Artal Office of 2016 and compare it with the year before, we see that it has been the rise of 23% of the files and smokes introduced by the citizens, and, well, we have to say that it's a remarkable ascent with 2010. It's also said that it's the first thing that's been mentioned here, and so has it been, uh, '70% ascent. And as the report itself says, there will be different reasons for understanding this promotion, the crisis that we suffer during the past few years, and the economic situation we have in consequence of, no doubt, but perhaps even the knowledge of the institution may have something to do with this promotion. The consequences of questions made to users are significant in this sense: 81% of users would recommend going to the interrogator; and the rating of the interrogation would be very high, and even the degree of credit: 65% of the Artal Institutions, both in the face of society and in the administration, because its image is good or very good. All this, therefore, we believe, expresses also confidence. If we make a more accurate examination of the data, from the over-expensional reports that there has been no misappropriation in 54% of the administration, and when there has been any wrong activity in '93%, the authorities have corrected it, without waiting for the recommendation of the intermediary. So we believe that this is also a sign of the daily good work of the administration. If we look at the distribution of the file records we've filed, the administration being the greatest, we think it's normal to see that in 65%, those almost files have appeared in front of the activity of the different teams of the Euskozoa. and of these there have been almost a 66% for the activities of the Eplegu and the Department of Police, including those of the House, which have been in the law of the House. And of all, it is true, that the revenues have been brought round the rent of exchange by the greater part of the complaints and complaints, but it must also be said that the intermediary in its report says very clearly that the system of the Euscarian welfare has gained a less degree of poverty and destruction than that of a European or a State, as well as of the influence of the community and of the welfare of society. We all agree that we have to modernize in the government club between the Jeltzad Party and the Socialist Party, and that we have the priority of helping groups of men with the greatest difficulty in the search for jobs, and of drawing individual routes to the work-world, giving them the means to strengthen the orientation, preparation, and grafting duties. It's the main goal to optimize the pursuit and to optimize the labor world by avoiding the state of social stability. We would also refer to the rights of language, in the report of the Arricus, in the general crisis of values, because we find it disturbing to read that certain areas which have been essential in European constructions. For example, language breeding is said to be liable to avoid respect for reduced languages. And there's also catalogy in this way, and that's why we're concerned, because if there's danger of not so much respect for smaller languages as that, there's no danger of not making too much sport for eloquence. Nevertheless, the interrogator, who was now 15 days at the board, confessed that it was a disturbing situation, said that the language policy which we are leading here in other European nations, aroused the interest which the law of Wales has shown in the knowledge of our example, or that, under the request of the European Boards, it was also a portrait of Georgia with the agents of our language and the representatives of the Euscaldia, so that this is a sign that we are doing well. It is necessary, in our opinion, to place a proportionation between the medium and the administration, and, as examples, the results which have been gained. On this platform there have been a few days when, thanks to our partnership with the Board of Education, it has been mentioned that the changes which have been made for the first time, in order to prevent the amount of importance in the course of the medical profession, have been supposed to be a step forward, and even in the housing matters, a good relationship which has managed and governs social rent, and which is also a sign of it. We believe that this must be the way we ought to follow, and this is the concert which the Arlia himself celebrates. In conclusion, supposing that the intermediary ought to guarantee the rights of all persons, we should make a special account of certain groups, because they are in a condition of greater weakness. The Children's Office has its own projection, and we had the opportunity to examine its annual report on the committee. But we believe that families need special references because they are basic support in our society. In this case, it is plain, that in order to preserve the social prosperity and character of the family, it is necessary to protect the families, and to encourage different measures, which are intended to encourage, for instance, the institution of our young men. The young men, owing to the crisis and unemployment, have difficulty facing an autonomous project of life, which extends their dependence on families, and, after all, has a negative influence on the well-being and development of our society. We believe that even the equality between women and men deserves a special reference. In February, 2005, the law of equality between men and women assumed a great advance in the genus, no doubt, but we believe that we are in front of a race of funds. We believe that our participation in the world of labour is indispensable, in the conditions of labour, and in the sphere of money, to diminish our participation in men. In this sense, it has been mentioned, even in this parliament, that RedMork has agreed to it in 2016 in the General Administration and its Autonomous Organization for the Equality of Women and Men's Arts. And it has been inferred that the Administration is extremely feministized, but that women live in more industry than men, and moreover that in '87% they are women, who are accustomed to exact precautions for a mutual support from minors or other members of the family. Among men and women's sorceries there is almost eight percent difference, but this neglect is not a direct matter, but the reason for it is that women usually fill their employments with a lower level and salary, in order to be able to join them with the work of care. The inequality of structure between men and women and the control of sexist system of values is, as we believe, one of the crudest violations of rights which we now live in in society. To educate our children and our teenages in respect, is to educate them in equality, and to prevent the great business of the institutions. Even early detection is very small, and it is necessary that our attention system should be able to guide these women to the pursuit or the means of providing them. The women who are victims, it has been mentioned before, have a sense of the closing of the door; and this, above all, they display in judicial cases, and maintains during time, and inspires even the fear of accusation, or their dependence on means and services. And in conclusion, we would like to mention the prison situation because it's one of the most vulnerable groups of our society that are imprisoned. The report of the year-olds informs us of the state of prisons and imprisonments, including their responsibility. We unite with this care, because they must be guided by society to deprive them of their liberty, and, unfortunately, this does not always happen. In 2016, the number of people who are involved in our prisons has retained their tendency to decrease, and in the last eight years the Eukadic prisons have lost 17% of population. But yet in the Spanish State there are one hundred and twenty-three thousand inhabitants in prison, which, if compared with 15 countries west of the European Union, is more than 31 percent of imprisonment. It may therefore be inferred that the punishment of depriving freedom is too great, and that our number of crimes ought to be half the present population of Eucataia, which is imprisoned. From these facts, well, we think they have something to do with it, even if you've started the file to open a new Gipuzian prison at the end of the year. And it is true that Martten has great privations, and, on the other hand, it is not possible to have prisoners properly in it, according to the nature of the crime or the other properties of the genus, as it is impossible that they should be properly separated. But this expedient ought not to be such a prison as it has been projected, and we believe that if we had a proper prison model, we should have an opportunity of doing other things in a different manner, and therefore, even if it is confessed in the State, we have not yet transferred it to the jurisdiction of the prisons, and, as we have done before, in this law or in the courts of Madrid, we insist and continue to obtain it. Finally, I thank Arlia and her whole team for the work he's done and done for the whole year, and once more in the name of our party I give him our respect and will to each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to this whole meeting. It was eleven o'clock in the morning and twenty-two. The meeting begins at eleven-two in the morning.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u13	As the speakers are ready, we will begin the next plenon. First point in theme list: "To collect the propose made by parlamental groups, to spread the centres of the family. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. The Supreme Court, represented by the EH Group, has the word of the Lady to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u14	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, Mrs. President. First of all, what we want before the discussion of this proposition, is to explain to Comrade why and for what purpose we entered this proposition. It was the reason why, not only what was seen, but what happened in different courts and places, but because there were no such points as there were problems in some particular places we had known through different contacts. And then we received from the various judges that when this anxiety was planned for us, it was necessary that this should be changed, and that it was necessary to give us this service in a proper manner. Then, seeing that, we did the first thing we did to ask the chief physician how it was to be asked in a scene, and we thought, from the answer, that it was necessary to give him a push to the work he was doing, something we could see as soon as possible. That's why we proposed this proposal. Eta zer da hau, zehazki? What are the judicial support points? They are a resource, a very important resource for children of separated parents, for children or minors at risk, for people who have to go there after having suffered situations of gender-based violence, when there are also minors who have suffered any kind of aggression, to control visits, to make protected visits, to make exchanges, and to have help and psychological guidance and thus to report to the different courts to see whether or not the approach is actually to be maintained. Then, you see, it's a very important matter, this service is really an important service. By this service it is chiefly the rights of children, and what is desirable is to be protected by those rights of children. What was the problem? Now, when the transfers were made, a decree was made, which is 2008. What was said in this decree was that this should be put into action, and, strictly speaking, some a priori were marked out, and some privileges were marked out, but these structures and subsidies, which were marked a priori in this decree 2008, have not been completed. Why do we say that? In 2009, Mrs. Gemma Widette made a show, and this was what she was asked to explain in this scene what state there was in this matter. He then proposed that changes should be made, that they were absolutely necessary, and that the service should be increased. Why? At that moment, in 2009, what explained was that there was only one in the gym, three Biscaia and one Gaste. And what he said was that it was very little to do with all things. And he proposed that a technical work should be made to see how necessary it should be, and to make the proper arrangements for them. But that wasn't it. In 2009, 800 people used this service. After this appearance, another series of studies was conducted in 2013 in relation to the status of the service, how it was being conducted, with what shortcomings it had or what was to be regulated, and what became apparent was that in 2013 there were more than a thousand users and there were more than 36,000 performances. But in 2013 there were exactly the same meeting points as there were in 2009; that is, in Bizkaia three, one in Gipuzkoa, and one in Arabica. Ararteko made a report collecting user complaints in 2013, and what he highlighted as an important issue was that, given the service and the centres there were, there was a risk of service saturation, that there was a very serious problem of availability, that there was a very serious problem of distance, and that there was a very serious problem of delays in service to be given to these people. And he suggested that an assessment should be made to bring this into line with the situation. And that wasn't done. It is true that in 2016 or in 2015, I know well enough that the letter should be made in Bazan, which is just Bilbon, and that it would be ready for 2017. We're in 2017, and when the chief physician's performance was made, he commented on the committee that it was all right, but that it hadn't been put on yet. And seeing the matter, and the necessity of this thing, we then proposed the proposition. The proposition has one and only meaning: This service must be provided, this service is a very important, necessary service, many people go forward, but the problem is that there are very few places. And not only that, but in some centers there is no space, there is no room, there is no sufficient resources, and one issue that was very important – and that is why we proposed that this analysis be made – is that we had to make long journeys with the minors from the places of residence to the place where the service was done. What's that supposed to mean? For if a person lived in Gernika, to make use of this compulsory service, at the imposition of the judge, he had to be transferred to Bilbao; the same if he lived in Durango. Or if he lived in Toulouse he had to move to Donosti, or if he lived in Amurrio he had to move to Gasteiz. Therefore, what was needed was to do an analysis of the situation, see what was going on, and try to adapt the service to the needs of the places and users. And we know, because we have been told, that this is actually being done now. We know that as a result of this non-law proposal, efforts have begun in Toulouse, Gernika and Durango and in some other places to launch this service. We know that such an assessment is being carried out, that even in some places the premises are already in place and rehabilitation work is beginning. And then we see that the proposal we made made made sense, had consequences and had a positive result. But that's not enough. And, as it does not seem enough to us, so we think that the agreement that we have reached, that what it says is precisely that this is done, that it is kept going, that it is not stopped and that it is finished making this adaptation, it is important to keep it, gauza batzuen artean, guztion adostasuna lortu dugulako, ikusten dugulako behar-beharrezkoa den zerbitzua egokitua izango dela hau martxan eta indarrean jartzen denean. And to finish it, one more thing. Our proposal had more than this: More allusions, how we thought we had to do this, but we agreed on the corridor we signed to do the same thing. Then, as we see it's all right and it's viable, we haven't had any trouble doing and moving it forward. And we added that there was also a great deal of meaning together in the addition of the amendment of Podemos. Why? The delays are not only because there are few services, but the delays are sometimes due to the absence of things from the court as they are not immediately executed. Then that's a matter of concern. We see that this Parliament can do but little in presence of this uneasiness, because it has not jurisdiction among other things; but we see that we must express it, and that we must demand that all the tools which are required to force it with all due respect should be carried forward. So that's why we put that in there, because we see that it's necessary. Eta esan, besterik ez, adi egongo garela. Badakigu sails the Egyptian wing of the egin beharreko gauza guztiak. I want to tell the counsellor that we know that she is doing the job of adapting and putting this into effect; that, in any case, we are going to give ourselves a prudent time to see how it develops; but that, obviously, since EH Bildu, because of the importance it has and because of what has been expressed to us by the users, we are going to be very careful to see how it develops, to ask and, if necessary, to demand that it develop, and so that what we agree today is sooner a reality, because it is for the benefit of many people, of many users, and, above all, of underage people, who are the true recipients and users of this service. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u15	Thank you, madam. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections together represent the Podemos team. Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u16	Egun on, Bakartxo Tejeria andrea. Sailburuok, fellow parliamentarians, fellow parliamentarians. MP Jone Goirizelaia has made a non-law proposal on family meeting points, which she has called "judicial support points" and are also called in other ways. It's very suggestive, and she said it all. We don't have much to say. We are going to be very brief, and we are only going to stress two issues that seem important to us. The first is that on the issue of the regulation of family meeting points, as is often said, as headless chickens almost until 2007, when a set of laws tried to organize the financing, the appropriate material conditions, delays in the beginning of the use of the service, the security and control measures, the neutrality of the reports of mediators, the rotation and other inadequate ratios of professionals participating and their management, the number, distribution and accessibility to these family meeting points. I am referring, as has already been said, to Decree 124/2008 of 1 July, which regulates the points of family reunion by judicial referral in the Basque Autonomous Community, supplemented by Decree 239/2011 of 22 November, where the responsibility of the Department of Justice is raised, at last, and Law 12/2008 of 5 December, where the points of family encounter are already recognized as part of the catalogue of services and services of the Basque system of social services, and this is interesting. Of the set of approaches made by MP Jone – I am not going to repeat myself – I just want to raise two issues..., well, four very brief ones. It seems important to us, to Elkarrekin Podemos, to study the agility and accessibility of these points of family encounter, undoubtedly an important advance of the Department of Justice in organizing mediation, in the way of solving problems, in this case the civil relations and rights of children and adolescents in relation to their father or mother, parents, family and other authorized relationships. We understand that this first point that has to do with improving agility and accessibility seemed important, after a study where we would make a diagnosis of the proximity to the known demands (802 demands there was last year) of the family meeting points. What happens is that, from the point of view of these demands, they are saturated and concentrated, as is known, on weekends or Sunday afternoons, posing accessibility problems. Systems can be used as a pre-date and others, which are already used at some meeting points, which are not all identical. It would therefore seem interesting to make a diagnosis of the sufficiency of centres throughout the three territories. It would seem important to carry out an analysis of the adequacy of the facilities, taking into account that some of them come from municipal initiatives (the same as in Zalla, for example). It would seem important to analyze the proximity to known demands: we will not put centers where it is not necessary, and it is good to put centers where demands are important (i.e., discriminate the data). There are 802 lawsuits: where the lawsuits come from, where the judges who have organized these court orders have been, where the judicial proceedings have been so that the operators have started... Analyze the causes of delays; it is not going to be that the problem is not at the points of family encounter and the problems are in the delays of the judicial process itself. I am referring to Ararteko's own analysis of the rotation and mobility of judicial operators to make decisions. At the points of family encounter, as I am told by colleagues who are mediation professionals or justices of the peace who have intervened in the process, there are no problems; little between one and three days of delay in quoting parents so that civil rights and meetings of children and adolescents are guaranteed. It seems that the central point is in the same judicial process; therefore, an analysis of the issue should also be made. Another issue that has not been discussed is improving mobility, which has already been raised by Ararteko. We echo disabled people, all people with dysfunction, who have had problems at various family meeting points for their accessibility. In some cases, the mother and son had to leave the centre because the wheelchair did not enter the offices. The first point, therefore, I insist, is to improve, to study the agility and accessibility of existing centres, and to see the opportunity or not to make new centres, as proposed by our proposed law not happily agreed among all political groups. The second is to analyse the judicial process itself. We will have time, both in the Committee on Labour and Justice and in various instruments, to analyse the judicial process itself. We have already spoken here on several occasions: I am talking about the process of computerising the entire judicial process; I am talking about the mobility of legal operators; I am talking about the sufficiency of resources. Right now only with the people who are moving in the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office (the anti-corruption prosecutor was going to say, but, as he is already resigned, I cannot raise the issue), because it would seem that there are a lot of shortcomings, not so much within the framework of Euskadi but within the framework of the Spanish State, to deal promptly with the outstanding corruption cases. In our case there are several issues that have to do with the juvenile's justice, but they also have to do with computer issues, bullying and adolescent harassment. So, I am talking about the human resources adequacy for some specific tasks that have already been mentioned in the committee by the previous Attorney General, and we are also talking about the coordination (important coordination) of prosecutors, judges and prosecutors in decision-making processes to start the family meeting points. The third and final point is to strengthen the culture of defending the civil rights of children and adolescents, the DNA of this Parliament and of our Government. And point 4, and that is what I want to stay for a minute, is to strengthen what is often called a culture of mediation in conflict resolution. This issue of mediation culture in conflict resolution, where family meeting points are a prototype, we are going to discuss it again for our model of prisons, the model of transfer and management of prisons in Euskadi; we are going to have to discuss it in models of restorative justice; we are going to have to discuss it in models and the improvement of judicial processes. The mediation cultures for Elkarrekin We can are fundamental elements in resolving conflicts. Not only conflicts between Osakidetza and trade unions, but also conflicts in the judicial world, in the world of the distribution and delivery of justice. And what do I call strengthening mediation cultures, what am I talking about? I am talking about the development of training processes for all neutral legal and professional operators working at family meeting points, skills, techniques and procedures to seek maximum effectiveness in conflict resolution. Undoubtedly, conflict resolution through mediation issues is a success in the juvenile's judicial processes in Euskadi and in juvenile and juvenile judicial processes. I want to say that the problems of children and adolescents have been resolved by a high percentage using mediation techniques in conflict resolution. These cultures are developed, strengthened at the family meeting points. We support this initiative of MP Jone Goirizelaia, and in Elkarrekin We can only show our satisfaction with the level of consensus achieved in trying, as Jone said, to give an impetus to the expansion of meeting points, if necessary, to improve quality and sufficiency, and it is a pride for our country to use these mechanisms to strengthen civil rights and to strengthen mediation techniques. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u17	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Members of the Government and members of the House, good morning to all. It is very grateful and very positive to rise to the rostrum to present an agreement that we are going to reach unanimously today from all those attending this ordinary plenary, especially because we have to bear in mind that it is a matter of great importance. At first glance, it may give the impression that it is not a great political agreement, of important political significance, that it is not a task of control or of support to the Government in fundamental matters, but if we get to the bottom of the matter and see that we are going to try to solve problems that our children have, I think that is where the importance of this issue lies. Minors are the greatest treasure that this society has, like all societies, but in addition these minors, the users of the resources of these family meeting points, are especially vulnerable minors. I remember (I am also so much older) that not many years ago, in the early 2000s, the exchanges between separated parents, which had to be decided by the judges and magistrates on the visiting regime, when they made the exchange of minors, often took place at the door of the court during the weekend, of a courthouse or closed courts. It was all in the hands of the security guards, the Ertzaintza agents who guarded the buildings at that time. This led to extremely unpleasant situations, which often ended in complaints, in conflicts that further worsened the procedures for breaking up couples or breaking up marriages that had led to this regime of visits by judges and magistrates. The issue has evolved a lot. Indeed, we have worked in very few positive years, and the family meeting points work quite well. But it must be said that this is not the first time that this Parliament has drawn the Government's attention to making a study of the functioning of these family meeting points and providing them with adequate material and personal means. We find ourselves in frankly delicate situations: the mere exchange of minors to spend weekends or periods between weeks or vacation periods with one or another parent, protected visits, meetings that must be held between parties that have orders of remoteness, but, above all – I meant before them – the protected visits. We need qualified, highly qualified personnel. Not just a technical qualification, but a human qualification. It has to be an exquisite and extraordinarily impartial staff, since they not only manage these meeting points. I believe the most important part of the management is the preparation of the reports that are subsequently used in the courts for the modification of measures, to modify the visiting regimes, to open them or to close them, or, if necessary – in the least cases, fortunately – to deny that right of visit of one of the parents with respect to the minors. Those reports are fundamental. They cannot be done in a hurry or without material means or without training or sensitivity on the part of professionals. That is why today we demand that the Government actually carry out this study, this report, not only to open up more points, but to see where they are needed, what type of matters are being studied at each of these points of family encounter, what are the material needs (of rooms, of rest sites...) so that professionals can interview minors and see the attitude they have when they change from one parent to another, for those periods, of rest generally, that they pass with them. Those emotions that are transmitted there are those that have to be reflected in the reports, which are the fundamental instrument that your ladies and gentlemen then use to issue resolutions on these visiting regimes. Therefore, the study has to be on the needs, on the typology of needs, on the distances at which these family meeting points must be found, and on the material means, logically, that are necessary budgetaryly for their proper functioning. And the second part of the motion says that we call on the courts, your honors, that communications about these visiting regimes must be faster. Well, I don't think it's a fundamental complaint on the part of those who work in this sector, but it's important that there's not a single case where a waste, a mistake in a computer program, a failure in a computer program, an error by the official who has to take care of that processing or communication, can be an evil for any of the minors who are forced to go to these kinds of centers. We therefore also add to that appeal to the courts, so that communications on this matter with the family meeting centres are as immediate as possible. And, logically, to the Government, to equip all of them with the material means necessary to carry out their end. Nothing more. We will support this agreement, which will be unanimous in the whole House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u20	Good morning, everyone. Jone began his intervention by saying that this was a concern that had been expressed to him by members of the judiciary. I believe that this is not only a concern of the members of the judiciary, but also a concern that this Parliament has already shown in the previous parliamentary term. A concern that, as has been well said by those who preceded me in the course of the speech, also picked up the Ararteko in its recommendation in 2013. I must admit that it has not been difficult for the Socialists to reach an agreement in this House in this GNP, to negotiate this GNP which will be adopted unanimously. And when we saw why it was so simple, it is because I believe that in this matter we all share the philosophy and the need for the service that is provided through the points of family encounter. So, it's easy to reach agreements and settle differences when we share that they are necessary and the philosophy with which they are being given. The original initiative of EH Bildu was based on the premise that when these meeting points were launched, account was taken of the circumstances at the time when they were to be launched. Logically, today is different; logically, it has also evolved from that start-up to today, there have also been evolutions and changes. And it's not that I say it; it's also reflected in Ararteko's report. But it is true that the current circumstances may be different, and that it is necessary to make an analysis in order to adopt the improvements that are appropriate in order to ensure that the service provided to families who have to go to these family support centres is adequate. The Ararteko in 2013, as I told you, defined these services..., when he was analyzing how they worked and how these centers were regulated, which you already comment that it comes from 2008, he said that they were services that were aimed at ensuring and facilitating, on a temporary basis, the relations between children and their father or mother or guardian in situations that were fundamentally the result of family processes (separations and divorces), but also, as you mentioned, it is used in situations of gender-based violence. Therefore, the meeting points are configured as support resources to ensure stable relations between boys and girls with their parents, with a clear objective, and it is that the paternal and filial relations will be improved, from the perspective always that the interest to protect is the best interest of the child, as we were told in an appearance that occurs in this parliamentary headquarters by the head of the family meeting points of the Basque Country in 2014. As I have mentioned, in the 13 pages of Ararteko's report on the issue of saturation that Jone has mentioned to us, this occupies only one paragraph, which, as it is not exactly very broad, I will read it textual (of thirteen pages, this paragraph I will read); it says: "It is not a risk that affects all resources in the same way" – it speaks of the risk of saturation of the service – "and at all times, it varies according to the population served and the time band concerned, being greater, logically, on weekends, and especially on Sunday afternoons", as some other spokespersons have also commented. But the rest of the 13 sheets of the report and the Ararteko's recommendations relate mainly to this need for coordination between the judiciary, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the family meeting points, and also refers to this need for the reports issued by the family meeting points to the courts to be taken into account promptly for any changes that may be appropriate. It is true that it also affects the speed with which the parties involved in the process, both of the father and of the mother or of the guardians, respond to these requests. Two are the data that I highlight from Ararteko regarding the proposal that we have on the table today. One, he shares the need for an assessment of the means that PEFs currently have in relation to the need for an adequate response (we have to analyze them, he says), and a necessary coordination between the courts and the meeting points. In other words, it believes that there is a need for fluid and timely communication between courts and family meeting points. In this sense, the socialist councilwoman María Jesús San José has already spoken at the appearance in which she presented the lines of action of her department for this legislature, telling us that she was committed to an evaluation of the different services linked to the Administration of Justice (these too), with the aim of detecting dysfunctions or deficiencies according to criteria of efficiency and quality, and to implement the measures that are appropriate. And not only did they say so, but they got to work, and from the department a thorough analysis has been made of the situation of the family meeting points of our community. Some of the speakers who preceded me have already commented. Visits have been made to all the existing meeting points, there is a contrasting knowledge of the situation, which has led to meetings already initiated with representatives of various municipalities and municipalities for the authorization of three new points in Durango and Gernika as well as in Toulouse, the latter to facilitate the decongestion that can be occurring at this time in Donostia. With the new meeting points that will come into force in 2018, that will come into operation in 2018 in Durango and Gernika is completed, to our understanding in a very satisfactory way, the network that currently exists in Bizkaia, and that there are four points (not three), four the current points: Bilbao, Portugalete, Barakaldo and Zalla, to which Gernika and Durango will join. Then there will be Vitoria, and Donosti and Tolosa. In addition, it should be borne in mind that the works are now about to be completed in order to be able to move the meeting point from Bilbao to Miribilla, to larger government-owned premises. At the moment, the department is waiting for the municipalities, which are going to hand over the premises, or the commons, to respond to the agreement, to the draft convention that has already been sent to them, because it is logically the government that puts or assumes the maintenance, adequacy and provision of the service, and usually the municipalities or commons that place the location, the local. It is true, and someone has said, that, if this is so, why is this first point of the transactional necessary? I think everyone sees it in a different way. Jone said that what is being done is not enough; it is not that he disagrees, but it is not enough. We could say that we have to give momentum to the department's action. And the People's Party said, well, the same deal doesn't seem so important. From my point of view, I believe that the agreement itself has value in itself, and that with this statement what Parliament is doing at the moment is to align itself with what the Ararteko has told us and to support the work that the Councilwoman of Labour and Justice has put into place. That is to say, I believe that what we are showing here with our first point is that we all share, both Ararteko and the Government and Parliament, the need for this analysis that the Department of Labour and Justice has carried out, and that the means necessary to adapt this service in terms of quality and to lend themselves to the families of our community are articulated. And that's what he's doing. If this non-law proposal were not passed today, it would continue to be done. It's not true that we have to push. What we are giving him is parliamentary support for the work that is being done from his department. And I think that's important. It is important that this Parliament also pronounce itself when it coincides with the actions taken by the Government to meet the needs of the citizens of our autonomous community. Not only when we believe that things need to be done that are not being done, but also when we share the way we do it. And it is that the socialists bet – and I believe that all of you too, because you are going to vote for it today – that the action that should guide public administrations is nothing other than the continuous evaluation of public policies, that we have effective, efficient and quality services, and that they also respond to the needs of our citizens. We have also agreed on a second point, in recommending that the judiciary put in place the necessary mechanisms to avoid delays in communication to the family meeting points, which, of course, reading the Ararteko report looks perfectly at where the distortions occur. I believe that we make our own in this second point that recommendation made by Ararteko in order to try to have a greater speed or agility through the means that is possible: reassignment of functions or resources between the different courts (mentioned by Ararteko), we have talked about the process of computerization... Well, whatever is necessary and in your hand, because all this is going to benefit communications that must necessarily be produced in a protected, supervised or intermediate way between parents and their sons and daughters, so that, if this is done in a more agile way, you can also shorten the time for their normalization and not have the need to continue using family meeting points. I will finish this speech, in the last twenty-five seconds, believing that it is important that we highlight when this Parliament reaches unanimous agreements on issues such as this, which are no more or less important, but simply necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians. Mr. Abrahams, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature, all of you at noon. Today we have an EH Collect initiative about spreading family associations. As those who have spoken before me, it is not a new subject either in this Chamber or in this country. There are a great many of the initiatives that have been discussed in this Chamber around the intersections. It was on 24 March 2000 that for the first time this Parliament unanimously adopted a GNP on the implementation of programmes of family meeting points, which sought to promote and ensure the development of so-called meeting points as an instrument for family mediation and the prevention of situations of family conflict. It was at that time a pioneering instrument in dealing with family mediation, aid in resolving situations of family conflict once separations or divorces had occurred, and where the child's protection and assistance in resolving many situations of tension and conflict were especially sought. Subsequently, questions, inquiries, appearances and some other GNP, in 2004, 2006, 2008, and the latter barely three years ago, have dealt with this matter. From 2001 onwards, on a social initiative with municipal subsidies, the family meeting points of Donostia and Irun were launched. In 2002 it was the opening of the Bilbao meeting point, and so on. And after unequal growth, and with different material and financial difficulties, with time and needs, this resource has been consolidated and transformed into a social service regulated and provided by the institutions. Its regulation came years later, with Decree 124/2008 of 1 July. Today we can say that it's a public service we're consolidated. And in this respect in the justification of EH Bildu's original GNP, although at the beginning of her speech Mrs Goirizelaia has spelled out the justification for the proposal, there are some issues on which we disagree. I would also like to highlight them, despite these nuances, because it says a lot about the evolution that the meeting points have undergone. It is specifically stated that the existing circumstances were taken into account at the time they were launched, but the current situation is different and the measures taken at the time are totally limited. It might seem from this statement that the situation of the family meeting points is the same as in 2001, when they began to be established, and nothing further from reality. In this regard, it should be pointed out that since they were launched in 2001 there has been a significant development in many respects. Firstly, from a competitive point of view. To what began as a private initiative, as we mentioned earlier, was then added the municipal initiative and the foral, until in the year 2010 the Basque Government took over the meeting points (except the municipality of Barakaldo, which would later be incorporated), at that time through the Department of Employment and Social Affairs, according to the regulatory decree of 2008, and finally, in 2001, it was the responsibility of this service in the Department of Justice, currently in the Department of Labour and Justice. Also from the point of view of the cases attended, in increasing demand: if in 2007, by setting a date, 265 families were attended, with 795 people attended, in 2015 (last available data) 802 families, with more than 2,600 people affected, including 1,064 minors. Thirdly, from the point of view of funding. In 2002, public money began to be allocated to the meeting points through grants, passing through a mixed funding period, with contributions from the municipalities, the parliaments and the government, until a financial consolidation by the Basque Government, which can be established from 2014 with a share of 1,200,000, and from 2015, up to this year, with shares of around 1,500,000 euros. And finally from the point of view of infrastructure. You, Mrs Goirizelaia, spoke of a meeting of the councillor in 2009, and we must tell you that, as you will well know, in January 2010 the new family meeting point of Donostia was launched, and in July 2015 the new family meeting point of Gasteiz, in Lakua, with an investment of more than 200,000 euros, with twice as much space as the previous one, which was located in the square of Spain, with modern equipment and video surveillance system to increase security control. And, as Mrs Castelo has told you, shortly this year, the new family meeting point of Bilbao will be launched, with an investment of more than 500,000 euros, with almost 400 square meters (150 square meters more than that of Uribari), and equipped with the most modern security and video surveillance systems. Therefore, it is neither true nor fair to state that the current situation is that of the moment when the meeting points were launched, as is said in the justification, despite, as I say, that the matisation or the exposition of Mrs Goirizelaia later went through other paths. Because, as can be seen, this is not true, but a long and important path has been taken in recent years, with appropriate measures being taken to improve service and adapt to growing demand, demonstrating the concern and occupation of the Government in this area. Today the five existing points (although one, as Mrs Castelo said, is double, because the one in Portugalete attends to Portugalete and Zalla, to Enkarterri), the five existing meeting points in Euskadi are the same as in 2013, yes, they are the same in terms of quantity, but, as we have seen, not in terms of quality, and I think that is important for the attention of people. They are neutral spaces for free and temporary use that the Basque Government makes available to parents or guardians so that they can visit or exchange minors and minors when there is a court order. They are spaces that offer maximum guarantees of security in situations of breakdown of the family nucleus without agreement, conflict, ill-treatment, etc. Moreover, as they have said, they work in them multidisciplinary psychosocial teams and experts who monitor and protect minors at all times, from the point of view of physical and emotional-emotional integrity, and undertake mediation to facilitate the normalization of the child's relations with both parents. So it's a middle-aged social service. In particular, service is necessary to small-ages in the last stage of family life, and important to improve the attention of families. The goal is to keep family minds during conflict processes. On the other hand, the approach of justification did not seem to us to be very consistent either in stating a priori that the distribution of meeting points is insufficient, which is not sufficient to respond adequately to current needs. These are statements that remind us of another GNP presented in this House in the last legislature, where a meeting point was requested in the municipality of Getxo, while calling for a global analysis of the needs of this service in the area of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. We are going to be serious and rigorous, and we are going to commission that analysis first to the competent for it, which is nothing other than currently the Department of Labour and Justice, according to the decree of 2011 (which, as has been mentioned, we know is being carried out), and then we will see the conclusions, the needs in their case, and the possibilities of improvement that are sure to exist. While we understand that, with the agreement that has been reached and the compromise amendment that has been reached, well, I think it is positive. We are left with the positive, with the agreement, the unanimity of all the groups in this House, which has finally also incorporated, in order to seek that unanimity, an aspect mentioned by Elkarrekin We can in his amendment add, in the sense of expressing, as reflected in the general recommendation of Ararteko 1/2013, the concern for the lack of speed in the implementation of judicial referrals towards the points of family encounter. And I would add that also in court communications to meeting points. Finally, I would like to acknowledge the work of the people who are working at these meeting points, who are so important in channelling difficult situations into broken couples, that normally the children who pay for the broken dishes are the children, helping to alleviate these situations and to channel the relationship of the children with their parents, guaranteeing the defence of the right of the child to relate to both parents, and also in the prevention of domestic and gender-based violence. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u23	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Someone else wants to join the answers turn... ? No? Now that the debate is over, we'll vote EH, Euskal Socialists, and together we'll have the middle-class correction signed by the Podemos and the Eubertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given are 75; the opponents 75; the opponents are 0; white is 0; 0; abstenations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u24	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Second point on the subject list: "The other proposal of Podemos, as a parlamentary group, concerning the corruption of the Potion Party. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Hernández, the representative of the Podemos, has the word to present himself to him and to defend him.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u25	Congressmen, good morning to all. Why are we bringing this initiative to the Basque Parliament today? First of all, we bring this initiative because there are as many reasons as almost endless cases of corruption by the People's Party. That would be a first reason, sufficient in our view to bring this issue to the position of the Basque Parliament, given the alarming public opinion that it is the party that is located in the state government and that has not cases of corruption, but structural corruption. Also because the main party in this Parliament and the main support of the Basque Government has supported, with its support for the general budgets, that this People's Party can be maintained in the Government at this time. It is not just a question of condemning appalling cases of corruption in the party that presides over the government of the State, the People's Party, which is already serious enough, in our view, for the Basque Parliament to stand, especially when that party, as I said, has managed to approve those budgets with the support of the main party in this House and not only against the majority opinion of Basque society, but also against the majority opinion of this Parliament. We would also like to take this opportunity to ask the Basque Nationalist Party whether the issues raised in its amendment, in which these characteristics of deep corruption of the ruling party in the State are recognized, are compatible with supporting it at this time in the State Government. We thought that at this time, and with the latest information also appearing in the last month since we started this non-law proposal, it was not even a matter of denouncing and reprimanding the structural corruption that the People's Party resorts to at all levels, with hundreds of serious cases of corruption going through its spine and for which important people's high offices, including its former treasurers, have been condemned. The issue that we are bringing to this House today, we understand, is even more serious: the People's Party has developed for decades a whole criminal plot to cover its electoral machinery at the cost of public money, and, by the way, the particular amounts of important people's leaders, throughout the State, are being fattened. This criminal plot is a genuine organized mafia, which has used its privileged position in different governments at all levels (municipal, autonomous and also the Government of the State) to carry out its criminal activities, looting the public to maintain its client networks, finance its electoral campaigns and fill the private pockets with not a few white-necked chorizos. By order of the Court of Inquiry No. 5 of the National Court, the President of the Government, Mariano Rajoy, has been called to testify as a witness by the so-called Gürtel case. On 26 July, nothing more and nothing less than the President of the Government of the State will have to declare in a case of corruption of his party. According to the order, this summons occurs because the People's Party, prosecuted for that case, refused to give any statement regarding the facts. As a result of this summons and subsequent judicial and prosecutorial proceedings, we have entered into an unsustainable situation for Mariano Rajoy and the People's Party, in which new investigations, arrests, complaints or prosecutions appear every day in connection with the People's Party or its corrupting companies. Unsustainable situation for Mariano Rajoy and his Government, if not because at the moment the PNV has decided to supply him with a can of political oxygen by approving the budgets of the State. The recent Lezo case, one of many cases of corruption in which the People's Party is being tried, has made particularly visible the use of the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office and other State institutions to obstruct investigations against its party. Thus, Ignacio González of the People's Party was arrested and imprisoned, and a procedure was initiated involving more than sixty people, including former Minister of Aznar Eduardo Zaplana; President of Inassa, Edmundo Rodríguez Sobrino, or former Vice-President of the Madrid Community, Alberto López Viejo. The defendants are being prosecuted for crimes of embezzlement, criminal organization, coercedness, documentary falsity, money laundering, prevarication and fraud. There have also been records and actions against companies such as the construction company OHL, Indra or PricewaterhouseCoopers, and their managers, such as the well-known businessman Villar Mir or Javier López Madrid, who investigate whether they have paid the People's Party more than 1,500,000 euros in bites, or whether they have financed it with more than 700,000 euros in the case of Indra. But if corruption is a very serious fact, the attempts to conceal it, or to give support to the people involved, from the institutions and powers of the State, using them for this, is something that questions the very foundations of the so-called rule of law and of the institutional architecture. Especially alarming is the use that the People's Party is making of the Prosecutor's Office and the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, with manoeuvres to hinder and prevent the action of prosecutors in charge of certain judicial cases for offences related to the corruption of their party. A week ago, the former chief prosecutor of the Anti-Corruption Office, Manuel Moix, tried to prevent the hearings from being extended to those who were investigated from coming to office in February of the same year, and he also tried to ensure that the records in question did not take place. Prosecutors who have been investigating this matter for eighteen months had to invoke article 27 of the Statute of the Prosecutor's Office to convene the Anti-Corruption Prosecutors'Board, where the majority opposed the order of its chief and supported the practice of registration. Moix has also tried to remove the prosecutor from the Lezo case, Carlos Yañez, asking him to resign his place in Madrid and return to his post in Granada. For these actions Moix has had the endorsement of the state attorney general, José Manuel Maza, who prevented the prosecutor from accusing the former president of the region of Murcia, Pedro Antonio Sánchez, also of the People's Party, against the opinion of the prosecutors of the case, who did see reasons for the imputation. It is also the one that replaced the prosecutors in charge of the so-called 3% case. It is extremely serious that, as it appears in the cars, Ignacio González and Eduardo Zaplana exchanged telephone messages in which they assure that they have spoken with the Minister of Justice to place in the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office a guy who, according to them, would be "good and serious", who is called Moix. Well and serious for your interests, of course. Justice Minister Rafael Catalá sends support to criminal Ignacio González with a clear message: "Thank you, Nacho. A strong hug. I wish the troubles would close soon", in the purest style of Mariano Rajoy ("Be strong, Luis"). Neither the actions of the Prosecutor's Office nor those of the Ministers of Justice and the Interior have brought any reproach on the part of Mariano Rajoy, in his eternal attitude of hiding his head, as he has done since he presided over the People's Party and the Government of the State: to do absolutely nothing to fight corruption, in which his party is the greatest protagonist. This is not another case or an isolated case, as the People's Party likes to justify itself. This operation highlights that the People's Party has been protected by the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office and the State Prosecutor's Office, which has used institutions to defend itself against justice and has used justice itself to defend itself against justice. The first, the anti-corruption prosecutor, resigned last week after it was discovered that he owned part of a company located in a tax haven. It was just the last chapter of whom he never had to hold that position, a chief of the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office who has been at the service of the most corrupt party in Europe; a man considered by Ignacio González to be one of his own in the famous telephone conversation with Zaplana. It now seems that the most serious thing is that Mr. Moix had a company in Panama. This is very serious, but for us there is something even worse: it is that two alleged criminals, Ignacio González and Eduardo Zaplana, currently in prison the first, say in a recorded conversation that Moix is the anti-corruption prosecutor they need to protect them. A conversation that was also reported to the State Attorney General, Mr. Maza, because the Progressive Union of Prosecutors and other prosecutors let him know that there was that puncture and that conversation. We are facing a genuine flagrant violation of the division of powers, with partisan and criminal objectives, by the government that governs the State. That government cannot be supported – I turn again to the Basque Nationalist Party – and that is why we too brought an initiative concerning the general budgets of the state a few weeks ago, because it cannot be supported, by voting on those budgets, by this type of government. We talk about the use of public institutions and ministries to protect criminals, to protect corrupt people. We are talking about the use of the Ministry of Justice, on whom Moix's appointment has ultimately depended, who has been forced to resign but who has ultimately revealed to be only a key piece in a more complex plot. The People's Party's strategy in dealing with corruption prosecutions is to use its situation in the Government to use the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office and the Attorney-General's Office to protect itself. Some say that the PP, when a trial goes wrong, doesn't change his lawyer, changes his judge. We think that's really happening. Recently, at the National High Court, strategic positions are being occupied by some judges who have been challenged in the past because of their proximity to the People's Party. Until 2016, more than eight hundred PP charges charged in thirty-one corruption cases. Gürtel, Bárcenas, Bankia, Brugal, Acuamed or Púnica are just some of the best known, to which others like Operation Lezo have joined. The People's Party itself has been accused of erasing up to thirty-five times the hard drives of the laptops used by its former treasurer Luis Bárcenas, in which, according to him, the documents of the party's accounting B were stored. That was the honor of being the first party accused of democracy. The first party accused of democracy is also being supported by the Basque Nationalist Party right now. We're talking about a criminal organization. And I'm not saying it, the Civil Guard said it. It is a party accused of illegal financing, defined as a criminal organization, which has ex-directors arrested, hunted or resigned for defrauding, misappropriating or lying. It is a government that censors, coerces, conceals, disarms, mistreats and deceives. They're a public danger, a social threat. Things like they are. Gómez de la Serna, Arístegui, Taula, Aznar, Rato, Rita, Ignacio González, the PP of Valencia, that of Aguirre, the mayor of Granada and his councillor of Urbanism, the wife of Arias Cañete, the minister Soria... There's no UDEF for that much chorizo. That is why the People's Party has been placing chess pieces in key positions of the judiciary with the aim of controlling and trying to alleviate the foreseeable negative effects of the cascade of corruption cases that splatter this formation, which are still being investigated and on which oral hearings will continue to take place in different courts in the coming months. Parliamentary arithmetic makes it possible for this type of corrupt party, which uses the institutions in a partisan way to protect itself from justice, to be either right now or to arrive at the Government, but at the moment it is only supported by the support obtained to approve the General Budgets, as I said on another occasion. And it is especially bloody in our land to do so thanks to the support of the Basque Nationalist Party. How can you be... , agreeing to define the People's Party as a corrupt party and which also uses the institutions at its will to hinder justice for its own benefit, to support it instead to carry out economic agreements and nothing more and nothing less than the General Budgets of the State, without which it would have absolutely complicated its situation and its continuity at the head of the Government! Surely the People's Party will come out here and try to defend its honorability. I think it's complicated right now, and that's why they'll probably put the fan on, or even talk to me about Venezuela or Cuba. I believe that the Socialist Party agrees, roughly, with many of the things I have said, but I do not think that it will be able to express it by its agreement with the Basque Nationalist Party. And I believe that the Basque Nationalist Party, if it really thinks what it says in its amendment, has an excellent opportunity today to vote for this initiative. He also has an excellent opportunity, next week, to change his mind about the motion of censure to the President of the Government of Mariano Rajoy. We invite you to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u26	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Passing over to the leaders' team, representing the EH Collect Group. Miss Trouble is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u27	Yes, ma'am, all the members of the legislature, good morning. I think today it is necessary to start with a few verses of Quevedo: "Powerful gentleman is Don Dinero. He is born in the honorable Indies, where the world accompanies him; he comes to die in Spain, and he is buried in Genoa." Quevedo knew the corruption of ministers, judges, and bankers, and very little altered. 'At the school of vice,' the students prepared for the next time: "bachiller's mentir, licciaura engañar, doctorado en robar y caedrico en medrair." The seeds of corruption. What's corruption? I shall use Paolo Maur's definition for corruption: to employ a public officer in such a manner as is not permitted by his condition, in exchange for private money or benefits. We were on the radio the other day, all of a sudden, and I remember some of us mentioned that the Popular Party was the worst part of Europe. And I remember Mr. Damborena was there and asked: "Refused? What kind of something? What's the worst part of it? "I don't know. I thought the question was very interesting, but the answer was even more interesting. What, on the side of the case? Well, in the 2013 American Council of the Judicial Power, the cases of corruption opened in the different functions of the Spanish sentence were 1.661 with 500 inputs, though only 20 persons in prison. Recent data: Between the 1st of July, 2016th of July, the 30th of September, the various Spanish judgments were divided, or the verbal trial was opened to the political manager, 1.338 in cases of corruption. I can't give more updated data, they're the last ones. All these cases are not of the Popular Party, but most of them belong to the PPrene, so that if we look at the cases and litigants, we shall be victorious in Europe. But we will continue with the question proposed by Monsieur Damboea: In Europe, is the popular party the most corrupt of all the money they have given or received? Well, the Spanish trade and contest Commission (la Commision Nacional de los Mercados y de la Commetencia) has counted the annual cost of corruption at 90.000 euros; more than half, over the administrative system. Let us look at the most familiar cases: It's from PSOE, but it's counted in 1.200 million euros-the Malaya case, 2400 million euros, commissions, and change suits. We can go on, but is it worth it? Or is the most corrupt party in people's perceptions? When people were asked who was the first, the greatest problems in the second and third Spain, "Sullery and fraud," 54%,3 answered, 12% of April. It's true, when the question was asked, that Lezo was in the middle of the line, arrested by Ignacio Gonzále, and the Attorney General, against Manuel Moix, proposed not to do one of them. But the worst is impunity. Because Mr Moix has ceased to be a chief anti-corruption prosecutor, not precisely because he has ceased, but will continue in the Supreme Court's career, surely to continue to be that prosecutor more concerned with hindering corruption investigations than pushing them forward. Of course, this could be a point where we can only talk about the People's Party. We could go on the local: here we have the San Antonio premises... But when we tried to have a joint motion, it was not possible, because the groups of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party did not want to reproach the structural nature of corruption. They chose more to show their concern. If we share the concern! The point is that that concern leads us to reproach him. But they also proposed to eliminate that of the permissive attitude which with it holds different powers of the State. And this is where there is no possibility of agreement, because denying reality is to encourage and facilitate corruption to continue, and remain structural, and not because I say so. Of course, in the second half of the 1980s the scandals of irregular financing of political parties began, and that was a novelty, because until then corruption had been more of a particular type, rather than at the level of organizations. The academic analysis on corruption in Spain points out – and I read textually – that "personal enrichments were replaced by a trend towards systematic irregular practice by political entities that constantly increased their funding needs, the same actors that generated the illegal acts of the parties their main beneficiaries". The names we know have basically been characters who allegedly acted as brokers between corrupting entities and the organization. The secretaries of the Naseiro or Bárcenas People's Party are an example, or Juan Guerra in the case of the PSOE. I also remember the phrase of Professor Justo Serna when he speaks of the Spanish political class: he says that exercising power has meant greed and domination. In addition to the deterioration of the image of the parties when they all come out in defense of the corrupt. Because another issue is pardons. These criminals have been pardoned: from 1996 to 2014 409 were pardoned for corruption. This is a permissive attitude. A detail that is no less: the main scandals of corruption have been uncovered by chivatazos, and not by the control agencies. Another proof of the system's permissiveness. The regulation of political financing in Spain, including the 2007 and 2012 reforms, remains remarkably flawed. In fact, also in academic analysis – we read in texts by García Viñuela or González de Aguilar – they point out, and I read textually: "They are designed to hinder the knowledge of the activities that the parties intend to keep hidden". Because, with regard to the transparency of party revenue and expenditure, the accounts they submit to the Court of Auditors do not go through a prior professional audit check, nor do they integrate all the organizations that make up the party. Donations... must be reported, yes, but in the 2012 reform legislators conveniently forgot to specify what would happen in case of non-compliance. By the way, let us also not forget that the Court of Auditors cannot investigate companies that collaborate with the parties, nor can it punish them for failing to comply with their legal obligation to cooperate with them. In this context, of course, it is not surprising that the Greek (the Group of States against Corruption) does not appear in his reports to be very consistent with Spanish anti-corruption behaviour, and complains (with ad hoc diplomatic circumloquies), rather than of the existence or better or worse criminal and procedural regulations, of the lack of effectiveness of the persecution. Because the persistence of corruption, as in other criminal phenomena, is not necessarily due to the lack of legislation in this regard, but to its lack of implementation. And in this respect the Greek reports are demolishing. Also the most well-known indicators (the Corruption Perceptions Index of International Transparency, the World Bank's Control of Corruption, or the International Country Risk Guide) often produce very similar results and trends. As cases continue to emerge, Spain has suffered one of the most pronounced falls in recent years in the indices. In the last one, Spain has fallen seven points since 2012, and with a score of 58 it is one of the worst ranked countries among Western European democracies. In November 2016, 80% of people felt that the government was not acting in the face of corruption. No other country in the European Union reaches these levels. In that, of course, Spain wins by score. The Council of Europe also rejected the politicization of the system to elect the judiciary. In 2013, when the Group of States against Corruption made eleven recommendations to Spain to better combat corruption among parliamentarians, judges and prosecutors, the institution expressed alarm that the country's political corruption scandals were so great that they imposed duties to try to resolve the situation. However, the results of the 2016 evaluation considered that none of the eleven measures proposed at the time had received a satisfactory response; in fact, six of them had not even been implemented. Pardons, lack of investigation, lack of interest in implementing recommendations... That is why we are talking about the permissive attitude of different powers of the State. The Spanish state is at 48. It has above all countries such as Brunei, Lithuania, Cape Verde, Saint Lucia, Botswana, Taiwan, Slovenia, Qatar, Barbados, Portugal, Bhutan... This is what the systematic corruption of the parties is achieving. We have the case War, the case Filesa, Roldán, Mario Conde, case Naseiro, case Gürtel, the papers of Bárcenas, the case Palau, the case Pujol, all the cases of the municipalities after the liberation of the soil, the systematic balls, the AVE, the airports, the case Saqueo, the case Malaya, all the cases of the Spanish royal family, the papers of Panama, the false ERE, the operation Punica, the black cards, the rotating doors... Of course, from Mariano Rajoy to the last councillor of Urbanism are involved. And I want to end up with another sentence, too. Esopo said years ago: "We hang little thieves, but we choose great thieves for public offices." It is time to end it without excuse, without justification, for corruption is the cancer of this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u28	Thank you, ma'am. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u29	Thank you, President. Well, today we have again one of those testimonyal debates that has recently raised this opposition binomial of this Parliament, with quite obvious signs of immaturity or of a policy I think quite disoriented. Not long ago we discussed here a proposal to reject the General Budgets of the State, which EH Bildu put to us, which today has been released by quoting the Spanish classics, Mrs Larion. A formation, by the way, a fervent supporter of the Catalan way and of the unilateral disconnection with Spain, but which apparently feels perfectly comfortable making Parliament an extension of the Congress of the Deputies of Spain. And today we do it with what Elkarrekin has presented to us We can about the corruption of the PP, which sincerely, Mr Hernández, seems to me to me a kind of motion of censorship to Rajoy advanced, probably to set the one that Pablo Iglesias will defend next June 13 in Madrid. A motion with no chance of success, because they didn't even get the numbers out of them, didn't even come forward with any intention of success. He presented himself without consulting anyone to put the Socialist Party on a stand, with one idea: to show that your party, the Party of Podemos, is the only alternative to the right, when in fact, today and under the leadership of Pablo Iglesias, for it is nothing but the red hope of the People's Party to continue perpetuating itself in power. And I just describe facts. A year ago you, Lords of Podemos, your correspondents in the Congress of Deputies, gave the government to Mariano Rajoy (four months ago) and voted with Rajoy against the possibility of a government of change presided over by Pedro Sánchez. And then they made possible the perpetuation of this government of corruption, and they were part of the problem that they denounce today, of the emergency situation that we are living today. And it turns out that now, without the slightest self-criticism, they tell us that they are the solution to the problem that you have contributed to maintaining and perpetuating in time. And they also tell us that it is only up to the socialists to say amen to what they have so boldly proposed. I think it's too strong the mejunge they offer us to take from a drink. Too strong even to be swallowed by the author of the initiative, who, in a start of courtesy, has even given to the Socialist Party the initiative to make us, not Pablo Iglesias, the ones responsible for making ridicule in the eyes of the whole country. I do not know what degree of agreement you have here with the current secretary general of your party. I don't know, I don't care. But I am very afraid that with his way of acting it will be a little more difficult to open the spaces of advisable understanding between the two main political forces of the Spanish left. Having said that, I would add that I have no intention of avoiding the debate that you have raised. Nor do we need to spend much time explaining ourselves, because our positions are well known. In fact, the amendment that we tabled with the Basque Nationalist Party is almost a copy of the initiative that the Socialist Group presented on 17 May in the Congress of Deputies and which you supported and the lords of the Basque Nationalist Party as well. Socialists think, it is true, that President Mariano Rajoy is reprehensible for everything his government is doing. We believe that you cannot tolerate such corrupt behavior as those that day and day are also letting the People's Party government see. We understand that they are reprehensible and we denounce the repeated interference of the Minister of Justice in obstructing the action of justice in judicial cases for crimes of corruption, and that is also what our amendment is talking about. We support the agreement of the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies which, on a socialist initiative, on 17 May, repudiated the Minister of Justice and called for the cessation of the public prosecutor's office for a serious and repeated breach of his duties, as well as of the anti-corruption prosecutor, who, as you know, fortunately has already resigned, despite the arduous defence of his boss (which, by the way, makes his cessation more urgent, for democratic hygiene). And we also need Mr Rajoy to account for, to explain what he knows in the proper parliamentary committee, which was ratified yesterday, in all that related to the illegal financing of the People's Party. Because the author of that famous message ("Be strong, Luis") will have much to explain to this country. That is what the Socialists have been defending in our political action, within the Congress of Deputies and outside the Congress of Deputies, and that is what we have taken as an amendment, tabled jointly with the Nationalist Group, to the proposal by Elkarrekin Podemos, which has unfortunately been impossible to agree on and which we are going to defend in its entirety. Today, as a year ago, corruption is a heavy burden for this country, because it affects the credibility of the rule of law, democracy itself and the confidence of citizens in their institutions and political representatives. That is why those of us who believe in politics are obliged to denounce it permanently where it occurs or where there are conditions for it to occur, and also to do so clearly and forcefully, and with absolute consistency as well. Unfortunately, there is no shortage of those who intend to hide or reduce this serious problem with national manoeuvres of fun: some covering their indecent correction with the flag of Spain, and the others with the stellate. And both putting decibels to the supposed national confrontation between Catalonia and Spain, and diverting in the end attention on what is truly important, as it is to regenerate Spanish public life. Because it is public and notorious that there is corruption, and there is serious corruption, beyond the ranks of the PP. And we must also tackle it with determination, although unfortunately there are those who think that in Catalonia, for example, the right to decide covers it and covers everything. To conclude, then, the Socialists understand that the current President of the Government of Spain is reprehensible, but we also understand that the motion of censure is too important for this country to handle it as frivolously as you are doing. Because it is a true frivolity and a source of new social frustrations to present a motion of censorship lost in advance, and thought exclusively, only, to revalidate personal party leadership, and not thinking of Spanish citizens. And, of course, we understand that a motion of censure such as the one intended is not going to take place in this Parliament, but in the Congress of Deputies, even if it seems to you otherwise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u30	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians. Mr. Akiancia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u31	Thank you, ma'am. Chief bureau, congressmen, good morning to all. The causal connection of many controversies of the legislature is the determination of discussion. Or rather, the indetermination of the controversy, and today we have another example. Our Rules of Procedure, and specifically concerning non-legislative proposals, are very clear in this matter: in order for Parliament to debate and adopt a decision on a given matter, non-legislative proposals must be submitted in writing to the Bureau which clearly sets out the subject matter, justification and text that is before the House. For those who are going to plunge into a certain debate, it will therefore be essential to carry out a prior analysis of the question raised. Following this methodology, we find this non-legislative proposal that today is subject to our consideration Elkarrekin Podemos. What are the key points that determine this issue in its title, justification and operative part? One, corruption as a most serious fact. Two, attempts to conceal corruption and attempts to support those involved in its commission, and the deterioration that this entails for the foundations of the rule of law. Three, the previous acts, but framed in specific cases specifically in relation to the Lezo case in Madrid. That is the issue we are discussing today, not another. Not another one. Since the beginning of this debate, or since we have been exchanging these texts, and since the introduction of the amendments too, Euskal Herria Bildu has played a role in the disorientation of this initiative. Mr Hernández also brings us a scheme today: to agree is to support a government. To agree is to support a government, you say. And he talks about the budget, about the budget: agreement on the budget. Where does the budget concept appear in your initiative, in the text of your initiative? Nowhere. I am not going to insist too much on the perception that Basque society itself has of the agreements, both the budget and the quota. A statistical study has been released these days, which shows quite clearly that a majority shares and applauds the agreements reached. Almost 70% of those who felt that they were beneficial or very beneficial agreements. That social majority you're talking about is clear. So do we. I'm sure Mrs. Larrion would be reading the CIS at the time. In a negotiation, Mr. Hernández, you don't choose your interlocutor. It's your turn! In this case, the one not many months ago was elected in Congress, with the votes of the deputies of the Basque Nationalist Party against. No other alternative has prospered, and it does not seem, for the time being, that any other will arise. Who's responsible for this? Ask yourself that question. But let us not move away from the particular issue that is the subject of this debate. Our position, embodied in our amendment and strictly in line with what is proposed, is based on four basic ideas. First, an explicit and forceful rejection of corrupt behaviors and actions or omissions that in some way seek to cover or cover up such behaviors. This rejection is accompanied by a willingness to compromise with ethical integrity and transparency; a commitment like the one repeatedly demonstrated by the Basque Government, for example in the adoption and application of the code of ethics. A commitment as also demonstrated by the Basque Nationalist Party itself: the institutions in which it governs, together with others, leads the transparency rankings. For example, Euskadi is a leader in transparency in the ranking of autonomous communities developed by Transparency International; the main cities of the autonomous community are also leaders in their respective rankings. Secondly, the denunciation of repeated interference by the Minister of Justice in obstructing the action of justice in judicial cases for corruption-related offences. The second of the ideas. Already in the debate that has been mentioned here, already in the debate on this motion in the Congress of Deputies on 16 May, and with a content similar to the initiative that we are dealing with today, the speaker from the People's Party, Mr Rojas García, proposed a series of measures that the Rajoy Government had taken in order to strengthen the work of the Prosecutor's Office. Some measures that we understand to be timely, no doubt, but which are of little use if profound changes are not addressed in the Ministry of Public Prosecutions. And it was said in that same debate in Congress by the spokesman on that occasion of the Basque Group, MP Mikel Legarda. The Lezo case has brought to the fore a prior citizen's perception of the lack of independence of justice due to political pressure, aimed at favoring those investigated for corruption and fraud. The fundamental problem is the model, it is the unit of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions vis-à-vis the central government in office. There is no point in appointing new prosecutors, if the one who directs and orders the work of these new prosecutors is appointed by the central government and is constantly subject to the instructions of the Minister of Justice. What is appropriate, and what we are asking for, is a fundamental reform of the State's judicial system, which guarantees the independence of judges, courts and prosecutors. Thirdly, and on the subject of the motion I mentioned earlier adopted in Congress on 16 May, what we propose is to support the terms contained in that initiative. We support the motion of Congress because we agree with what it proposes, and I would like to underline this because we believe that this, Congress, is the appropriate forum for this. All the groups present here have their own representation in Congress, and that is the place where the positions of the groups take that tangible value, and where effective, rather than effective, control over the work of the State Government can and should be exercised. The motion agreed, on the one hand, on the reprobation of the Minister of Justice; on the other, on the other hand, on the reprobation of the actions of both the State Attorney General and the Chief Prosecutor of the Special Prosecutor against Corruption, calling also for the former to be discontinued and the latter to be removed. Well, it seems that this last question is no longer necessary, given Mr Moix's resignation; resignation, yes, precipitated by a strange case linked to a Panamanian-based company. The fourth and final idea that our amendment focused on is the need for the President of the Government to have a transparent attitude towards the committee on the alleged illegal financing of the People's Party, taking into account all those actions and facts on which he is aware. That is our position; that which we have defended in Congress, the place of effective control of that government, and that which from here – which is not the place of control of that government – we support. Mr Hernández – and I wanted to regain the idea of determining the debate – you bring us your initiative. You bring us your initiative. What do we do? First of all, we look at what is at us. Secondly, we ordered it (it was a little messy: we ordered it). Thirdly, we clarify (i.e. where control is done, what we can do). In other words, the Congress is gathering issues like agreeing to reprobation; we do what we do is that we support that agreement that was made in Congress. That doesn't mean we're not blunt. In addition to that, what we do is that we update, according to the latest reality, the motion of 16 May. Mr Hernandez, acknowledge that our text is a much improved version of yours, but on this particular issue. It fits in with the question that you determine, with the question that you raise. At first there was or did not seem to be any problem to move forward, but suddenly the fatal attraction appears. You have the fatal attraction, your fatal attraction, your vertigo. Bildu, EH Bildu, had already emerged from the debate with your amendment, from this debate that you are putting forward (I understand that strategic approach), and you have to decide. And what does he decide? You decide to leave the debate too! You have left your own debate, Mr Hernández. It's absurd. I, of course, don't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u32	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Passing in the district of teams that don't run, representing the Basque Potion Group. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. The truth is that I have to confess to you, Mr Hernández, that you had prepared me some notes for that of parliamentary rigour; to try to provide some information, and even to try – this is usually the most difficult thing – to make some kind of argument that sounds novel in a debate that is already, in our opinion, under way. Not because it is no longer important and because there is no need to discuss corruption and its consequences, but because the arguments are so predictable and are... "I was going to use a qualifying adjective," so partisan, that, far from trying to contribute something to the public debate, what they are trying to do is to nail the ascua to the particular sardine of each one, in this case with special singularity Mr Hernández. And I confess to him that today he came with some hope, with some hope of seeing some solid argument beyond insult, beyond the qualifying adjective without any kind of sustenance, beyond some manly argument, proper and derived from the arguments of Podemos, Pablo Iglesias or Juan Carlos Monedero. But we haven't been lucky enough to meet him today. This information in the press ("they say", "we read that", "it seems that"...), because, when we are talking about dignity, as we are talking about institutions, when we are talking about crimes and criminal offences, the least that can be demanded and asked..., then we are talking about politics, but the least that can be asked is a little bit of rigour. Because this is a legislative chamber, this is a serious place, it is a rigorous place, where here you don't come to storm the skies, but you come to try to bring some light and something of interest to public debates. Of course, you were asking yourself, rhetorically – and I understand that you do, because you have to justify this initiative – "Why do we bring this initiative?". He asked in a rhetorical way Mr Hernández. And, of course, someone might think that the intentionality of Podemos – I don't say it isn't, but I might think it's exclusive – is to open up a general cause against the People's Party; it's to use this non-law proposal, to use this House, to abound in a political lynching towards those who we represent here today to the People's Party, but in general the delegitimization of a political option throughout Spain and also in Euskadi. I think it is something more serious what Podemos proposes, something more profound; to which Mrs Larrion also adds, as she has acknowledged us and as she has let it be seen. You have been somewhat subtler in some passages of your speech, but what is being done here is an amendment to a democratic and legal system, which is the one representing our institutions and the one representing Spain, the one representing our rule of law, the one representing this House. It is a profound questioning of the solid foundations that have allowed us to progress and live together. It is a question of the institutions, not just of the control ones; of course it is also a profound and absolutely universal question of the judiciary, the judiciary, the political parties – except their own and except their own – an absolute question of the representative institutions. That they have mistakes and that they fail? Of course I do. That the system has cracks through which the corrupt take advantage of the opportunities provided by these cracks to enrich themselves or to ascend socially in an illegitimate way? Of course I do. But those cracks are not the system, but they are a representation that the system fails, obviously, and that it has elements of correction and elements of reaction, as we are seeing and as some are suffering in their own flesh, because they are giving up their bones in prison, in a preventive way, and others, when they end up in oral trials – which have not yet finished – in a definitive way, I have no doubt, after those judicial proceedings. Therefore, we find ourselves, in fact, with an attempt to lynching and delegitimizing a political option, which is the one represented by the People's Party, without a solution of continuity, with a thick outline and here everything is worth, any barbarity can be said; but we also find ourselves with a questioning of the system itself, whether in this case the general institutions of the State but also that of the autonomous community itself, because today it is up to us to some and another day it will touch others. It is true that with you you still do not dare, because Podemos goes from very revolutionary but does not dare to touch the true power of Euskadi, which you represent (and I say it without pejorative spirit, believe me), and with you you still do not dare. It will probably cost you, because there is a reverential fear that you show at every opportunity you have. But of the most important things I do not know if I am going to say any, but I believe that the most important thing I am going to say, the one I have real interest in sharing with you, is in relation to Mrs Larrion's intervention. Mrs Larion also used the figure of the rhetorical question, and said Mrs Larion "What is corruption?", and it was answered, wasn't it? Recently you, Mrs Larion, were asked another question too, not so rhetorical, but you did not have such an obvious answer. They asked him a long time ago: "Do you recognize ETA as a terrorist organization?". And you answered literally – then I gave you the link – you answered: "It's a concrete question that doesn't have an answer of yes or no." I am not going to talk to you about ETA; I am going to talk to you about ethical and moral commitment, and why I think you have no legitimacy to address this bench and accuse us and, of course, judge us from an ethical or moral point of view. Look, I am one of those who believe that the greatest ethical and moral corruption that can exist is to take a person's life in an unjust and illegitimate way. It's a corruption that doesn't have any kind – in my opinion, and maybe I'm too orthodox –... But I don't think he admits debate or discussion. You don't believe that. You believe and defend that there are certain circumstances in which a human being can be taken away from his life, and that this also has a political justification and explanation. That makes it impossible for him to judge the People's Party in a matter such as corruption. You think that extortioning an entrepreneur, a merchant... you think that, that extortion, is called a revolutionary tax. We think it's terrorist blackmail. Therefore, we are on two levels of discussion, and therefore your speech to us does not serve us, because you have no moral or political legitimacy to question the commitment of the men and women of the People's Party in the public exercise and, of course, our honesty. Maybe if you do that tour, maybe if you do that tour and then come out here and say, "What is corruption," and say, "Extorting entrepreneurs by ETA is corruption. Terrorism is ethical and moral corruption," we may begin to equate the plans of debate. But, as I said before, Podemos is in a strategy, and – Mr. Pastor recalled – it is a strategy that has nothing to do with Euskadi at all. It is a national strategy, I would even dare to say that it is a strategy that is framed in an international strategy, that leads to populism, to try to take advantage of the opportunities offered to them by the corrupt, on the one hand, but also the uncertainty generated through the economic crisis, to excite the lower passions and to seek enemies, and to question not only the institutions, but also the legitimacy of the rest of those we make political. And today we had a chance to hear it too. Today, in the first place. We did not need to watch television to listen to Mr Iglesias and Mr Monedero, but Mr Hernández has come, as a good pupil and as a good pupil, to try to reproduce it. I believe that without the brilliance of Mr. Iglesias, but you do deserve, and you will surely get it if you insist on that so orthodox and radical way. Then, they are in a strategy subordinated to the interests of their national leadership in Madrid. It seems legitimate to me, and very reasonable. But what you have is tired eyes, Mr Hernández, because, of course, it is very good for you to see what happens five hundred kilometres away, and, of course, I can assure you that both I and the rest of my parliamentary group produce us, an infinite disgust at cases of corruption, and more cases that affect our party. But he has that tired view that allows him to see what happens five hundred kilometers, but not what happens in his own ranks and not what happens in Euskadi. Therefore, this proposition not of law, apart from many other things, is deeply clumsy, not only because of the wording, but also because of the content, because it forgets many things when it comes to denouncing corruption. And I'm not gonna put the fan in, unless you give me the option in the second intervention. Because you and I both know that there are reasons to put the fan, but I am more interested in deepening on this deep issue and on this issue that I believe is in the end the really important, the political pose that you want to continue to propagate. This is a chamber, like the rest of the places in which we debate, where political parties (at least I like to interpret politics like this) come to try to bring some opinion, light, serenity, sometimes to try to placate the spirits that may be on the street, uncertainty, fears, threats that a part of the population can feel. And there are other kinds of politicians who come to this House, on the contrary, to excite those fears, uncertainties or angers that exist. And you are one of those who come not to build, but to destroy. You come to point out, not to commit. You come to make a large-scale speech based on argumentaries, and you do not come to try to provide any detail in this debate. You are looking for an enemy, and in this case the necessary enemy is the People's Party. We don't have a problem. I prefer politics to develop in another dialectic, not as a friend or enemy, but it is the position that you mark. And you, without guarantee and without trial, judge. Moreover, they have turned the process into a conviction. It is how the political and institutional debate has been subverted, in which at the moment in Spain, and at the present time also in the Basque Country and in this House, to what is being done is a debate on the fact that the process itself is the condemnation. And this is absolute and deeply undemocratic, absolute and deeply fascist. Absolutely anti-democratic and fascist, because denying the possibility of a fair process with guarantees to any citizen is deeply anti-democratic and fascist. Because you said there's a criminal plot, you said we're an organized mafia, you said we're a public danger, and you said we're a social threat. And you don't have the size to tell us that to whom we have shown courage, honesty and courage throughout our entire political career in defense of ideals with absolute freedom. And you have said it in this rostrum, and the least you can do...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u34	Silence, please...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u35	... The least you can do, or should do, is talk with a little respect to someone who has shown much more than you... Perhaps you can do it in a few years' time, try hard, but you have no right to speak to any of these parliamentarians in those terms, and you have done so. So...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u36	End up, Mr. Sémper.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u37	I'm done, Madam President. What is not worth having the tongue very sharp to criticize and a very thin skin when you also receive the criticisms. And I conclude, Madam President, by sharing with you a data that is objective. I know that the arguments do not matter and the data do not matter, I know that, but I do not resist: the Progressive Union of Prosecutors on 4 May stated that the perception that has been transmitted from a prosecutor's office to political interests does not correspond to reality. I know that prosecutors to you, both judges and judges, institutions or the rest of the political parties, do not deserve credibility, but these are objective data from the Progressive Union of Prosecutors. Accusing prosecutors, accusing the Ministry of Public Prosecutions of prevarication (as well in general terms, of prevarication), acting on the basis of party interests, is accusing the Ministry of Public Prosecutions of a criminal offence. Which is absurd and which in itself results in absolute political schizophrenia. Because if we are having the opportunity to see people, men and women charged with serious and very serious crimes (extremely serious crimes) tried and passed through the courts, it is because the rule of law works, it is because the Prosecutor has worked, it is because the magistrates do their work, and because each and every one of the corrupt, there is no doubt about it, whether it be the People's Party, the Basque Nationalist Party...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u38	Please finish...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u39	... of Bildu, the Socialist Party or Podemos – and remember this day and this date – they will end up throwing their bones in jail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u40	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. [[Applause]] Please, quiet... Passing the police, Mr. Hernanandez, together Podemos. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u41	Mr. Semper, speaking of general cause, in this country where my comrades were shot, it seems quite out of tune. We reaffirm everything we have said here. It's our most sincere opinion of what's going on, and it's the most sincere opinion of a lot of people on the street of what's going on. And it's the opinion of a lot of people not only five hundred kilometers; it's also the opinion of a lot of people here. And our work, that of my parliamentary group (which, I have to remind you again, is called Elkarrekin Podemos, coalition of three organizations), our job is to come here to defend our political positions and our ideas. And we are not afraid of any debate and to bring here any issue that is in Basque public opinion. You didn't have to get out of Venezuela, and you chose to get out of ETA. It was even easier. What did ETA have to do with this debate today? How long are you going to continue to use that question? And more knowing that the initiative is brought by a group, Elkarrekin Podemos, who has no doubt of morality on this issue. And we do have the moral size to bring here a debate on corruption not of you, nor of the other ladies and gentlemen who sit here beside you, but of the People's Party as a structure, as an organization, which is what I have referred to. And that, in our opinion (yes, I repeat), has been structured as a mafia organization, as a mafia plot. And it is true that I will not have the dissipation of other parliamentarians in my coalition, nor do I intend to, but I believe that I have managed today that all the groups – logically less theirs, logically I did not expect – have said in this rostrum that the People's Party is not only a corrupt party, but that it uses the institutions and, therefore, the powers of the State in its defence and for its benefit. We did not want the Socialist Party to say amen to our initiative, let alone. We intended to agree. Nor did we intend to include in our initiative that we agree with the Government of the People's Party the general budgets of the State is to support it. That is what I say, we say it and we keep it in our speech, but logically, as you say, Mr Aiartza, you are not on the initiative because we intended to move the initiative forward. But the point of friction, the point of friction for which there is no agreement of all groups except the People's Party, which was the objective of our coalition, is the one that Mrs Larrion also mentioned... By the way, I don't have any vertigo not to bargain with EH Bildu. I believe that I have recently demonstrated this in this House, following a debate on collective bargaining. But, as Mrs Larrion said, the point of friction, with which you have expressed to me that you do not agree, was the fourth point of the transaction that you have finally not signed with us. The point where it is said that the powers of the State, which different powers of the State have acted with permissiveness. With an essay that I also made, to try to reach that agreement. Because I'm not talking about all the powers of the state; I'm talking about "different powers of the state." And if we are all saying that, for example, the Attorney General's Office is being used by a political party in the Government for its own benefit, is that not what the powers of the State have permissiveness in cases of corruption? Permissiveness is little, the word! That is why I believe that even with that wording we could have agreed, but it has not been achieved. We have no problem in my group voting for it by points, and excluding that point if you agree with the other three points, which are indeed very similar to your amendment. Because that was my goal, and because I collected everything that I was asked by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, and I collected everything I could from what EH Bildu asked me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u42	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Unite the EH team as representative. Miss Trouble is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u43	Thank you. I was seeing him, as Mr. Semper spoke, that the message of "Be strong, Borja" had reached him, and this position has been transmitted to us here. It's funny, it's funny that at this point, we would have to be talking and it was called such, and I think I've also adjusted to talk about corruption, so how little some parties have dedicated to that! Not obviously the People's Party, which has to take out balls or play you more. That part I understand. But I am somewhat surprised by the attitude of the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Party, which have spent most of their intervention justifying other things and have devoted very little to it. That, as we were told, we have to adjust to the subject; however, we look for all kinds of ways to avoid talking about the subject. It can be said by active, passive or peripheral, but, of course, to talk about the corruption of the People's Party they have devoted very little to it, and it is in the video. You can check it later: let's add it up. Man, I'm surprised, Mr. Aiartza, that you don't think I read the international press, because I read it. And not only that: I read the CIS, the same thing I told you right here about European corruption rates. Yes, I also read Focus's, which I by the way haven't made any reference to. Because it may indeed be that I read the international press, but I have also grown up in this country. And I could have taken it out, and I didn't want it, because I grew up reading that in the press, Portuondo, or the slots, or we could just go to the Passeigs... And it is precisely not where I entered or want to enter, because today we were talking about the corruption of the People's Party, and I have extended – because it seems to me that in addition, if not, it remains scarce – precisely what it is of the Spanish State. Anyway, Mr. Pastor has made it clear to us, not only in the intervention, when he said that there is a binomial in the opposition that we are Podemos and Euskal Herria Bildu: he has shown how he has helped him in the "Be strong, Borja" not talking about the subject. Because we really have to say, because this is the case, that the Government seems to be making three of them here, and, of course, the hood that has been thrown at it is quite clear. Mr. Semper, I'm going to pass you a couple of links to my interviews too, because today is not the subject of what I think of certain topics, but it's not going to take me there today at all. Not at all. When you spoke in addition to having solid arguments, you did not give any solid arguments. Not one solid argument. I have given you in all the intervention data. I have not judged him; it is precisely others who have judged him. I have given you the data involved, I have given you the data at least how much, at euro levels, has emerged from corruption, which I know is the tip of the iceberg. I'm sure there's a lot more. I've given you data on perceptions, I've given you data on everything... as you defend the work of the judiciary, which of course works sometimes, so go and pardon them: 409 pardoned. Of course I do! Here we do not question that no one is against corruption! Precisely what we are talking about is the powers of the State, because precisely that is the definition of corruption. That's where we're going. Moreover, if you read the data too, that there are different (there are at European level, there are at state level, there are many, we can give them those who want to), it is precisely people who do not have the awareness that corruption is that of the official on duty. No one thinks that to go to health care or to go to education you have to deliver a lot of money. Corruption is up, corruption is structural. As you say, we are against the corrupt. No, no! The academic analysis – which is also not mine – of corruption speaks of groups, and speaks precisely of it being structural. The parties are financed in this way. That's what we're talking about. And we don't talk about one or two people. And every time he comes out... And besides, it's not just Bárcenas, of course it's not just Naseiro, it's not just the thousands of names: here you are and you have imputations and you are called from the president of the government, your Mr Rajoy, to the last..., not all absolutely, but to the last councillor of hacienda and urbanism that has been imputed. It goes up and down, back and forth. I mean, it's absolutely systemic, it's structural. That's the problem. And I don't say it; people like the Greek say it. The Greek, precisely the Group of States against Corruption, based in Strasbourg, under the Commission, is saying so. And he tells them the faults, he tells them where to act, and he tells them what they haven't imputed. If it's not a question of Podemos or Euskal Herria Bildu! 80% of the people tell it, all the data tell it. You can still deny it. If they're gonna do it, I know it, I know them! Of course, I do not expect a single truth from you. I don't expect it. In fact, I'm surprised when I hear it. But, of course, on the issue of corruption and the People's Party I think there is very little more to add. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u44	Thank you, ma'am. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u45	Well, Mrs Larrion, I am surprised, because I consider you to be an intelligent person and I suppose you have been able to count: I have spent exactly the same time criticizing the true intentions of this proposal as I have criticizing the corruption of the People's Party. Two sheets for each case, exactly the same time. Just like you, you've drawn more attention to each other. Because, to be clear, here are declared intentions and undeclared intentions, when such initiatives are made. There was it with the General Budgets of the State, and there is it with this issue exactly the same. And it's double. You intend to do, first of all, on the part of Podemos, a sort of general test of that phantom motion of censure of the coming week from Mr. Iglesias, on the one hand; and, on the other hand, you are again trying to put the coalition government on a stand. What happens is that sometimes it's an advantage to belong to a party that is almost 140 years old: it's that we've known all these trifles a long time, from you or from other people like you, a long time ago, and in those we're not going to fall. We've been caught with the militia for a long time. As we are caught with the militia made in Madrid, when you present the motion of censure as you have wanted to present it, when you have the original sin of having to present it because you allowed Mr Rajoy to remain President today and not a socialist president in Spain. You, twice, one after the other, voted against the candidate. Therefore, since we are in this debate which is of great interest to you, I will also ask you to withdraw that motion of censure, even though Pedro Sánchez has also asked you to withdraw that motion of censure. And I no longer ask you alone: Gaspar Llamazares, Baltasar Garzón, Federico Mayor Zaragoza, Cristina Almeida, Martín Pallin... , and its own partners in Valencia de Compromís. Pay attention to them, please, and then let us sit down and speak honestly, sincerely and without second thoughts, whether it is possible or not to present a motion of censure that can be carried forward. And, finally, Mr. Semper, you have been very skilful here not to enter into the core of the question I recognize you that you have been able to skilfully draw the subject. But, finally, what we were talking about, with second or first intentions, is the situation that fundamentally affects the People's Party. I will not say that to you exclusively: primarily to the People's Party. And a very simple reflection: this is not – it has never been, despite the fact that some spokesmen of his party in Madrid like to repeat it constantly – a general cause against the People's Party. No, it has nothing to do with that. Nor is it a Jewish-Masonic conjuration, as used to be said in other times. Because we say it and other political parties in this House and in the Congress of Deputies say it, but so do the judges and the courts, and many prosecutors, who leave them. Therefore, I would recommend that you have some self-critical sense and humility, because it is not the Socialist Party, we cannot, nor Bildu, who is going to make Mr. Rajoy appear at the National Court, right? So something will have to be reconsidered about what has happened, and especially about what needs to be done in the future so that it does not happen again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u46	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians. Mr. Akiancia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u47	Thanks again. Mrs. Larion, I see you haven't answered me, because we'll see the video, we'll all see it. I have only talked about corruption, and on three points, which was what was being raised: corruption as such; those attempts to cushion it, second point, and thirdly, that specific issue that is raised in the initiative, which is the Lezo case. That's all I've been talking about. I don't know, we'll see it in the video. Nor have you read our amendment. I was reading the international press and you have not read our amendment. Read our amendment and see. I've read yours! It is a little shorter yours, rather shorter; read our amendment and see what we are talking about and how deep. In any case, I continue to maintain that you have outdone this issue from the outset. A measured blur, in my opinion, and no doubt a blur that hides a certain obsession. We've seen it less today, but it hides a certain obsession. Mr. Hernandez, you were talking about a friction point. The friction point isn't where you said it was. That's not the friction point, no. The friction point is that you had determined a debate, you had clearly determined it (see your amendment as well..., sorry, look at your original text), you had determined a debate, and you at the last moment evaded that debate and went that way. All right, but it's not where you're talking to us. Mr Hernández, I would also like to make it clear that, in our view, the best image of control is the effective exercise of control itself, and that is what citizens want. Not the actual exercise; the actual exercise. Not to look for the image, but to perform the control. Perform control. The question is, do you, your coalition, carry out that control? And it started with a rhetorical question, it's true (some other spokesperson has commented on it), it started with a rhetorical question, a question of why we bring this initiative here, it started this debate. Well, I have my opinion: you bring it on order. You bring this initiative by order. Besides, do you really bring it? Well, I'd say no. This text, strictly this text that you presented, has been presented in many and different institutions of the State, in many and different institutions of the State, with points and commas. Strictly this text. And it has been approved in some: in Zaragoza, in La Laguna, in Santander... What's the point of bringing her here? In my view, it has the objective of simply using this House as a speaker. As a speaker at the service of that madridcentrism of your party; far, in our view, from the dignity that this House assumes or has as an essential element of Basque self-government. We, Mr Hernández, are doing politics in Madrid looking at Euskadi. You do politics in Euskadi looking at the interests of your party in Madrid. That is why, in view of this issue and this reality, we will maintain our initial text of amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u48	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. And finally, Esquila Popular Group rep. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u49	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs Larion, as you have told me you are not going to believe me, I am not going to try too hard either, but – I say to you with total sincerity and honesty – I intend to share with you today is that reflection so that you understand our position, not to try to convince you. Maybe if he understands us, maybe he'll help us with something. What I'm saying is that corruption is a scourge. Corruption is a scourge that not only detests political parties, and of course the individual, the man or woman who commits such acts of corruption, that these two initial issues in my opinion are the least relevant (because there they and their consequences); that there may be a corrupt in a political party and that it matters the reaction of political formation to that corrupt, which is also decisive in trying to avoid greater evils caused by corruption, but I believe that corruption is profoundly negative because it damages the credibility of citizens towards their institutions. And that's why I absolutely condemn any corruption exercise, and more, if that corruption exercise is committed by someone who is a militant in my own political party. And I believe that both I and the rest of my colleagues have demonstrated this position throughout our recent political career, when we have been asked about this issue. What I'm saying is that it's not worth being very forceful and absolutely honest, and with claims of exemplary honesty with corruption when it happens elsewhere, and lax, justifiable, when corruption does mine. When ETA extorts an entrepreneur, when ETA extorts a trader, it is not a revolutionary tax, as you believe or defend or justify, but it is an act of corruption absolutely unacceptable and insurmountable, apart from many other things. When ETA takes away a human being's life it is not only an act of terrible terrorism, which of course, but it is an act of moral and ethical corruption (ethical and moral) capitalized. And when you are very forceful with corruption and look elsewhere, and justify socially or politically that which I have just enumerated to you, you lose credibility, and in any case you lose legitimacy to teach us lessons to others. That's what I intended to share with you. He's not one and you're not one anymore. It's something much more important and much more serious. If you take a walk, perhaps you can reflect on it quietly and come to a conclusion. Mr. Pastor was wondering, "Something has to be done to keep it from happening again." Well, I think we've actually learned. I mean it with total honesty. I believe that the set of political formations, those that have been most affected by cases of corruption in their ranks, including the People's Party, and the Socialist Party as well, and others that have had cases of non-minor corruption in the amount, those that have not been so many or have not been known so many, in which there are the rest of political formations, we have taken good note of what has happened in recent years and what is the explosive cocktail between corruption, economic crisis, disaffection and uncertainty in the future, that only populism grows and only those who want to destroy everything that we have been able to build among all and that has allowed growth and benefit for the whole population and society. And I think that we are absolutely convinced of this, and that is why the last parliamentary term in the Congress of Deputies adopted a package of measures that I believe it is important that we remember them, and that have transformed not only the perception that a hypothetical possible corrupt may have, but also the attitude with which the political parties exercise our political activity and the attitude with which the institutions respond. We have passed the Transparency Act, which in Euskadi we are also working in this line; the Penal Code Reform Act, which punishes in a much more severe manner acts of corruption, as before, the possibility that political parties may be subject to such complaints... Some procedures of the Criminal Prosecution Act, which was absolutely necessary, have also been clarified and hardened. The Law on the Financing of Political Parties, and anyone who has any responsibility in a political party knows what has been complicated, by rigor, and it seems to me absolutely reasonable, the financing of political parties and the information to be given (not in vain now the managers will have to go every year to Congress of Deputies to report on the lists of their party)... I mean, I think things have been done. I believe that we have learned from what has happened to us (and I use the mayo-plural, everyone who assumes their share of learning), and I do believe that it has changed and that it will not happen to us again what has happened to us. I'm absolutely convinced. Because I also believe that there has been a process of maturity on the part of the political parties and those who are political. But if we enter into the game of these gentlemen, and that is why I think it is important that we maintain the serenity, the strength in the criticism, no doubt, when there is an act of corruption in other ranks and in the own, that this is usually more complicated..., but if we maintain that strength, that firmness and that serenity, and we do not enter into the trap of the game that seeks to delegitimize the institutions and the rule of law itself, I believe that we will be able to regain that damaged confidence also in a part of the citizenry towards the exercise of politics, of the parties that obviously, with a hundred, seventy-five or forty years, I believe that they represent stability for the citizens, and not to play to exalt the spirits, to exalt the concern, but to play and we are in this policy to generate stability and progress. Because the alternative to this is..., look at what your previous executive, or I think it's the current one – and this goes without squeaking, Mr. Pastor – I say the one in Madrid, I think the federal executive called you, managed to stop Mr. Sánchez from doing it. And it is that Podemos asks Mr Sánchez in 2016, in order to reach a coalition agreement, in relation to the judiciary and in relation to the judiciary, proposes the following, literally, to Mr Sánchez. It says: "The choice of judges and prosecutors should occur by consensus, under the logic" – here begins the good – "that the teams will necessarily be composed of capable people, with different political sensibilities, but committed to the program of the Government of Change". This is what could come to us...!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u50	Please finish...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u51	Judges, magistrates and prosecutors are required to make political appointments, in this case committed to the principles of change. If this were so, today many of those who are reporting to the courts, who are being denounced by the Civil Guard, by the police, by the prosecutors, and those who are going to find their bones in jail, would not be going through that personal calvary, and in some justified cases (and I hope that in addition to those who are justified will fall a good stick), but would be like in some banana republic of some very close reference to some group here, camping to their wide. And that, then, we don't want, do we? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u52	Thank you... Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote together with the middle-point correction that Podemos and EH Teams have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 72; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; abscesssion, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u53	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we vote for the general correction of the Basque Socialists and of the Eunciators. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at table are 72; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 37; the opponents are 19; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 18.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u54	So the full correction has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "To guarantee school-carry for the students of the country who are studying the First Education and the Second Education of Child Education, as well as the Political Department of Education." Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Bengoche, representing the Potula team, has the word to present and support the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u55	Thank you, Madam President. At the moment, I think it is a good time to finish the plenary with a consensus that we have all reached. And it is a consensus on what this group proposed regarding the difficulty of school transport in many areas. There is a decree that governs it, and it is a decree that in compulsory education left without school transport, especially in Álava (our main concern in this sense was Álava), children living between two and four kilometers from the center. Of course, they will tell me, then, two or four kilometers is not a great journey, but it is that there were places where there was not even a path enabled for it. As a result of that concern, we are presenting it here, and I can say that we have reached a consensus. To a consensus that is general, and that includes not only compulsory education, as we originally suggested, but also non-compulsory education. That is, FP and Bachiller, all students between the ages of sixteen and eighteen, who were excluded. Why did we have that concern? Look, let me give you some data. In Bizkaia – you know it as I do – there are 1,150,000 people, of whom 345,000 live in Bilbao. That is, 30% live in the capital. What does that mean? That with 70% of the population in the province we have enough critical mass so that public transport can and should be abundant, regular and even not excessively deficient, that normally public transport always has a deficit. In Gipuzkoa there are 717,000 inhabitants, of whom 186,000 live in the capital. That is, we have 25% of the population living in the capital, and we have 75% living in other areas. And that 75% can also maintain unsustainable public transport economically, always with some deficit, but which, well, can be extensive within the province and with reasonable regularity. And these public transports that I say, in Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia, and with agreements with the parliament, often cover student transfers. And in the case of compulsory education part of its cost is borne by the Department of Education. But what happens to us in Alava? For in Álava live 324,000 people: it is the territory that has the smallest population, but it is the most extensive territory. It is the largest territory in Euskadi, with the smallest population. And not only with the smallest population, but, of those 324,000 people, 244,000 live in Vitoria. Seventy-five per cent of the population of Alavesa lives in Vitoria, leaving only 25 per cent of the population to live and live in the largest territory of Euskadi. Of course, under these conditions public transport, which is compulsory, is a transport that can hardly have frequencies and scopes as they can have in Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa. And as public transport is financed by the parliament, but even if the Department of Education is taken over – in the other two territories it is a way of accessing the educational institutions – then in Álava it has a large mandicap, a large mandicap. And here this is important, for one reason: because we are talking about a fundamental right, which is the right to education. The same would happen to us if we talked about health, for example. These are fundamental rights. And when we deal with fundamental rights, the first guiding principle is not equality. Equality is the second principle. The first is equity, that is, giving everyone what they need to ensure that everyone has equal opportunities in the end. And the students of Álava had everything so much more difficult and so much more complicated, and also in a territory where we see that the rural population is being extinguished, because it does not access the same services as in the capital – which I imagine is the main reason for the exodus to the capital – and it is a territory in which the rural sector has traditionally been more important. Bizkaia is known for one type of economy, Gipuzkoa for another type of economy, but what was the economy and why do we typically know Álava? For we know it for its agriculture, and the Álava potatoes, which continue to be a recognized brand, for the wine of Rioja, for cereal in some cases... And then it turns out that the territory whose economy and the prestige of whose economy is most based on the rural sphere, is being depopulated. Of course, I believe that this is a cross-cutting issue; apart from being fundamental rights, it is a cross-cutting issue, on which all departments would have to influence. But now we're with the Department of Education. If we want Álava not to continue to suffer from this exodus from the rural world and the extinction of her life, we will have to provide her with services, and one of the fundamental services, logically, is that of education, that of the ability to reach the workplaces. That will root people in the territory. I am talking about Alava, because it is truly the example and the one that suffers most from this lack of equity. That does not mean that in our proposal we do not include those areas of Bizkaia and those areas of Gipuzkoa which are much smaller but which may be in a similar situation. So what consensus have we come to? Well, first of all, we ask the Basque Government to carry out an analysis of how things are, but under that parameter, the parameter of equity, to be able to give, in order to satisfy a fundamental right, to provide to each one what he needs. Not all the same, because the situation is not the same. Then we ask you to review the regulations, because the current regulations make it difficult for us to reach agreements or to carry out actions with which this problem is solved. Then, we ask you to review the regulations, to revise the decree. And in the meantime, we ask you that these very exceptional situations..., well, in Álava not so exceptional, but these exceptional situations, which are not included in the decree, as it is, in compulsory education, those children who live to more than two and are little children, or more than four without being older from school, in places where there are sometimes no roads, and the pupils of sixteen and eighteen years of age, since, as long as we change the decree, the council changes the decree, the Basque Government in general arrives at an agreement (because this does not have to come out of Education alone, I think that Rural Development would have something to say), an agreement is reached between the Basque Government and the deputies to cooperate and guarantee that equity to all the students. Fortunately, all the groups in the House have signed that agreement. We certainly believe that it fulfils its objectives. First, it gives the Department of Education reasonable time to change its decree, and at the same time, provisionally, we call for the cooperation of other departments and other institutions to ensure that the fundamentals are met. And it's that to get equal rights you have to give each one not the same, but what he needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u57	Thank you, ma'am. Partners. We have been discussing and exchanging views among the various parliamentary groups on today's issue, which we are again discussing in this ordinary plenary session, for several weeks. That is, the situation of school transport in rural areas. On the one hand, in the past full of control, we already asked the Education Adviser about Aldaialde's problem in Vitoria, who argued her refusal because it was not compulsory education. On the other hand, this same Tuesday we had the opportunity to listen in the Education Committee to the AMPAs of the institutes of Aniturri and Samaniego, who explained to us the problems they have with school transport after the completion of compulsory education. In addition, the same initiative that we are discussing today was discussed at the plenary session of General Councils in Álava on 31 May. That is, there are reasons to act, and we have already had several occasions to know the different positions of the different political forces represented here. In Arabic there is the saying "Seven teams make Álava one" ("Zazpi taldeek, Araba bat"). The territory is divided into seven teams and 487 administrative boards. Of all of them are known, and I myself know firsthand, many of the problems that exist in Araba in relation to school transport, that there is a great difference between the gangs and Vitoria-Gasteiz. In the capital it is where most of the population of the territory is concentrated and has most of the infrastructures for the realization of sports, cultural and social activities. In this regard, Basque schools have an obligation to respond and solve the needs of families, which, as in the present case, one of the main demands they make is the provision of the so-called school transport service, especially those living in rural areas. While it is important to note that these school services should not be regarded as merely assistance, but also as educational spaces and times. This type of school services is usually provided to students outside the school, and their role is to supplement the school activity that the school must organize. It is clear that these types of services are necessary to respond to the new social needs generated by changes in the functioning of society and new family models. Today, the incompatibility of working and school hours, or the transformation of family structures, has led to changes in the distribution and allocation of tasks within the family group. Together with this, labour mobility causes many families to have real problems in bringing their children to the public educational centre that is theirs. In our view, the transport service is a subjective service, comparable to the right to free and quality education, and must fulfil the same objectives as other school services. From the educational point of view, to facilitate comprehensive training and to make more effective access to school for all pupils, and above all for the most disadvantaged. Universalize the service, establishing measures to ensure access to all students who so request. Facilitating work and family reconciliation, given the incompatibility that usually occurs between working hours and schoolchildren, as we have said before. It is indeed the responsibility of the education administration to ensure that all pupils who need it, in whole or in part, are transported by means of grants or scholarships. Thus, Decree 69/2015 of 19 May 2015 on the school transport of pupils from public non-university educational institutions of the Basque Autonomous Community sets out in its Chapter II the requirements necessary to be entitled to school transport. Among them, it states that the requirements of distance will be that the teaching centre should be at a distance equal to or greater than two kilometres from its home in the case of the second cycle of Children's Education, Primary Education and the first cycle of Compulsory Secondary Education, and at a distance greater than four kilometres from its home in the case of the second cycle of Compulsory Secondary Education. The territorial delegation of Education will also establish the appropriate mechanism to ensure that the persons concerned are transferred free of charge to the public centre assigned to them. Such transport guarantees shall be unique and exclusively for pupils attending the centres specified on the school map. The territorial delegations shall analyse and approve, where appropriate, the proposals submitted by the centres, and submit to the central services the student relationship with the right to transport and with authorization for its use, in order to coordinate and plan the provision of the service. The committee shall seek advice and technical reports, and the committee shall propose such measures as it deems appropriate for the improvement of school transport. Read the regulations we can say it's okay. However, in the light of the problems and complaints that come to us, it must necessarily be reviewed. The reality is that we are faced with a number of situations that do not conform to the rules, but, given that access to public education should be free and accessible regardless of where it is lived, it must clearly be flexible and oriented towards meeting real needs and not meeting requirements. For this reason, one of the points of the amendment of the whole that we presented focused on making an analysis, with the participation of the educational community, the situation of schools and the school transport of our Autonomous Community, in order to identify specific needs and difficulties. Specific needs such as Aldaialde or the institutes of Aniturri and Samaniego. But we are also concerned that the regulations in force are not being complied with to ensure school transport to families whose public school is located equal to or more than two kilometres from their residences or equal to or more than four kilometres. That is why the second point of our amendment focused on complying with existing legislation and ensuring that families whose public schools are located equal to or more than two kilometres from their residences are transported to school, a point from which, after seeing the amendment to the initial totality of PNV and PSOE, we have made clear their need, because it is clearly the Government itself who urges compliance, which we believe is obvious. In short, we see a need to revise and adapt Decree 69/2015, but we also call for at least the current one, which the Government also sees necessary. However, we see that the solution goes again through a question of political will, which is shown in the budget. In other words, it is not worth approving the need to adopt regulations, etc., and subsequently cut back on school transport. In the approved 2017 budget of the Basque Government, the investment of the item of school transport and accompanying 3.5% was cut, and the government's response to this cut was – literally – "This is an execution adjustment". And we say: And why are these adjustments not made in the high-ranking games? The Basque education system, for it to be of quality, needs investment, needs resources, and good management of them, but, most importantly, it needs political will. In the Education Committee on Tuesday, Mrs Bengoechea expressed her intention to table an amendment to the 2018 budgets to ensure the transport service in rural environments. We'll be careful. And wishing to contribute – with the permission of Mr Semper – we have reached an agreement with all the forces present here, which I will not reiterate, since Mrs Bengoechea has already explained it, and to summarise: in short, our total support for the rural environment, for the allocation of resources for school transport for students of public ownership centres who need it; political will to strengthen public education, and will to review the legislation and adapt it to reality. That's all. Mila esker.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Now, Mrs. Ubera, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u59	Good afternoon. We're discussing the transportation of public schools outside the university today. We're talking about a problem that's been going on for five years, a problem that hasn't been closed for five years, we're talking about a problem that isn't answered from the Board of Education. And from the Board of Education, I say, all right because it belongs to the Board of Education, because the Law says so, and because the Decree is received thereby. For five years we've been in the Board of Education with so many situations, complex reality, sitting on the table, and at least so far we haven't received any answers. The regulation which was obtained in the legislation of the preceding time by a suggestion, follows that what has been revealed must be given another turn, and a profound re-establishment of what it demands, if we wish to face the state. That's how we planned EH Collecton at the moment, so we told the chairman of the Board of Education, but he didn't see it. For the alteration that was made obliges many families, schools, and atheists, to condemn them by institution to walk by the door. I just want to remind you that on Tuesday we had the representative of the parent meeting at the Samania Institute of Abar Erricia, the representative of the parent union here in the Abar Ladada, there have been several requests, a long variation and so on. And we also know that they've been to the great assemblies of the Arababa. That shows what the situation is. That's about the situation. As for the frame of law, we do not require privileges in our case, but demand fundamental privileges. We demand that which is already received in the frame of law, which is received in the regulation, no more, no less. These are the principles of the system of education which we require to be fulfilled; The education of all students in quality, their circumstances, and whatever circumstances may be, is also recorded in the process of transport which is already in use; the universal access to education, with which personal differences, cultural, economic, and social, are to be calculated, and this also is received in the decrees in which they are deprived of special attention. The law also prescribes obligations, and the other says that the Education and the Fundamental Office are free. At the same time, it is said in a decree already established, that the Administration of Education ought to take upon itself duties and obligations under certain circumstances and doctrines. So I can keep going for a while... because you often mention that the law ought to be fulfilled, I can very long carry on what is actually received in law and decrees, but it is certain that the affairs of transport in the country have not been given an escape for the last few years. People who live in fields of country, who live, deny that we have to make an effort, and that we must make an effort. And we know what living in a field like this is supposed to be, and we don't have a problem to consume it. But the other thing is that the Administration has certain duties, and we only require those fundamental duties to abolish the Administration and to fulfil what concerns it. On the other hand, history is a second education is in the air. We all know how far a necessary secondary education extends, and that in the Second Education, Batxial and Educational Education does not interfere. But we all know that the Second Education is also finished, and that the Basque Institutions (Godbernus, the Education Department) are still at an end. that is what we all seek for. So it would be even logical to meet those people who need conditions, access, and conditions. And what we demand is that those who have difficulty in a rational way should give an adequate answer to them. The question is, that when in particular circumstances children are directed from their own domain to another field, because the school is in the works, or because it is the case, the decree itself anticipates the exceptions, and we see certain conditions to guarantee the transport of the school, but they are not satisfied. They don't follow, and that shows that, even if they're received in the decree, they're the interpretations that follow... and therefore it is necessary to examine the regulation. So what we're asking is to examine the regulations we have. Of course, to examine the regulation, first of all, we must consider the situation we have, in order to give an answer in the best possible manner, except in the eyes of the general interest and private interests, and in the centre, the students and families, the families, the schools, and the students should not be obliged to beg for the door. In the end, what we ask is to guarantee all men in equality the means of education. And, in fact, today we're talking about the country spirit, social cohesion, the difference of choice. We're getting small villages, country fields, to keep alive, schools, schools, schools, school, living. And, by the way, I want to remember that on Sunday, the Festival of the Low Schools is celebrated in the Rock, that the identity of our people, culture, are the transmission of language, and that we have a very important appointment on Sunday. They may be low-sized, but they're making a very small contribution, small sizes, but with all their hearts and projects, because our little schools, our little people.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u61	Thank you, President. Well, today we are discussing a non-legislative proposal brought to us by the People's Group on ensuring school transport for students who teach second-cycle children's, primary and compulsory secondary education from rural environments. On Tuesday, as has already been said here, we discussed this issue in the Education Commission with representatives of the mothers and fathers' associations of the institutes of Aniturri and Samaniego, and the issues raised there are issues that concern us: we need to find a formula to guarantee the equality of all pupils with regard to the school transport service, regardless of the area where they reside. That, after all, is what the Statute of Autonomy says in its article 16, which states that it is the responsibility of the autonomous community to deal with the subject of educational services, including the supplementary school transport service, and it is also the responsibility of the autonomous community to deal with grants and grants with its own funds. The Organic Education Act also states as the principle of the educational system the quality of education for all pupils, regardless of their conditions and circumstances; equity (word very repeated by Mrs Bengoechea), which guarantees equal opportunities for the full development of personality through education; educational inclusion, equal rights and opportunities, which help to overcome any discrimination; and universal accessibility to education, which acts as a compensatory element of personal, cultural, economic and social inequalities, with particular attention to those arising from any type of disability. For this reason, in this proposal that we have been able to agree, we ask the Department of Education of the Basque Government..., we urge you to guarantee the school transport for all students who attend second-cycle teaching of Children's, Primary and Compulsory Secondary Education from rural environments in the terms set out in the decree of 2015, of 19 May, which regulates school transport, which has been repeatedly mentioned in this rostrum. But we understand that not only does the Department of Education have to provide a solution, given the environment we are talking about, but also the Álava Foral Diputation has something to say. They have to work together – that is what we have come to propose – to make an agreement, a regulation of aid, or a protocol, as they wish to call it, of aid and subsidies, in order to truly guarantee this equity in school transport for all the students mentioned above, with the participation of all educational agents. And, as it seems clear that the current rules on the use of school transport do not sufficiently guarantee school transport for all pupils and this should be revised, we urge in this amendment that their revision should take place, the appropriate modifications to solve the needs of the student, so that, as Mrs Macazaga said, that exception which contains the rule is not interpretable by one or the other at any given time, but that it is clear to me why it applies and to whom. Because students who finish compulsory education and want to continue training in public educational institutions should not be seen – as is the case now – without that opportunity because they do not have school transport, or because this is of such a price that it prevents the economy of families from being able to cope with it. Equal opportunities must be guaranteed for all pupils, regardless of where they live, and it cannot be us, the Department of Education, or the outside parliament, who make that distinction between students, since we are here to guarantee the right to education for all. It was this situation that was denounced and transmitted to us in the Education Commission the AMPA of Rioja Alavesa and Agurain: that secondary students must pay for using a bus that is free for compulsory education and not for them, and the parents, as we were well told, will end up taking their children to institutes of Vitoria or Amurrio, or in the case of the Rioja Alavesa to Logroño, where there is an efficient and cheap public transport more economical than that offered to them by the Department of Education. We therefore think it important that the transport aid received by the Basque Government, which is part of the Álava Foral Diputación, be regulated and that the necessary measures be taken by means of a regulatory agreement to ensure that no pupil is deprived of school transport. And all I have to do is congratulate myself on what is almost an unprecedented unanimous agreement on education, which I think we could almost set a framework. Although I would like to insist that all those who are in this rostrum also so that, this dynamic of being able to cross the borders of our ideology and compete in the common element, in a common territory of citizen interest, is from now on something more frequent than what has come to be at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u62	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians. Mrs. Molina, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. The Chief Department, all the members of the legislature, good noon. We have another proposal today of the same as the Parlamentary People of the Basque Groups in the second cycle of Child Education, for the students of the field where education is studied in the First Education and Foreign Education, to guarantee the educational zeal for the students of the Second Education. More than 24.700 Basque students take the bus every day to school from home. That requires 535 careers and 521 helpers. The students in the field where they go to the barages of reference spend more time on buses than those who live near them. It's a common thing, even if it's not long journeys, it's slow routes with many pauses. This is especially the case in Aban, in respect of the particular peculiarities of the country; it has many scattered villages, which slows the journey. Dispersion and orography do not prevent pupils of compulsory education from reaching their reference centre by means of free bus transport. It is a service offered to all students from two to sixteen years of age. Everyone gets that attention. They are also covered by Decree 69/2015, which was discussed here on 19 May on the school transport of students from public non-university schools in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country financed by the department. This decree prioritizes the security of service and maintains the principles of equality and equity in access. It was modified in 2015 to provide greater legal certainty to students, their families and educational institutions themselves, as well as to try to ensure that transport reaches all students with compulsory education, since the rule was extended to collect exceptions to ensure equal guarantees. It states that secondary school students enrolled in a public educational centre in Euskadi are entitled to school transport, that this centre is closest to their residence, and that it is two kilometres away. And for those in the second cycle of Secondary Education the requirement is four kilometers. However, despite being clear on the requirements, a follow-up commission was incorporated to assess the exceptional circumstances and that those pupils who remain outside the main requirement of distance may have such a service, as set out in Article 6.2(e), which states that exceptionality must be explicit and reasoned with indication of the specific reasons on which it is based, and will be reviewed annually. Therefore, not only does it guarantee transport for those who meet the requirements, but through the exceptionalities it lends itself to the entire student regardless of distance, so no one stays out of this service. It is true that this regulation does not contain a list of exceptional cases to be entitled to such transport, but when any case is detected it is the territorial delegation that transfers it to the follow-up committee. And to this day all the cases raised (all) have been dealt with. The main objective of the Monitoring Committee is to propose measures which are deemed appropriate for the improvement of school transport in all its forms, and it must also report on the exceptional measures referred to in the above-mentioned article, taking into account that one of the administrative obligations is equal treatment for all pupils, so that the exceptions must be assessed on the basis of objective criteria. Education is one of the prioritys of the "Eunctific" and "Eupic" Jeltist Party, and that's why we guarantee the access is all of them, offering quality service. The Decree regulates the school progress, but, furthermore, the EukMotle guarantees access to the schools of their reference, offering other alternative formulas. The taxi on demand is one of them. Through an agreement in collaboration with the Provincial Council of Álava, this service is provided, so that a taxi will reach students of Compulsory Secondary Education either to the stop of a regular line of school transport or to the center itself. But, in addition, individualized allocations, scholarships for such school transport are also established annually. Each year, the department reviews the routes and transport sections for the following school year, in order to provide for contracts and take into account the exceptionalities set out in the decree. We therefore believe that access to the school transport service is guaranteed in all areas, even in the event of a change in the school map, although it is true that there is room for improvement in all decrees, and that is why we have signed this compromise amendment between all groups to improve the connections between rural areas and educational institutions. I am not going to repeat it because it has already been commented on here, but, well, I will comment that, with regard to the first point, a situation analysis of these centres and transport is called for. Although this task is already being carried out by the Monitoring Committee, since it is its task, we do not find it inappropriate to carry out another analysis to see the improvements. The second point also calls for a revision of the rules so that, if amendments are to be made, they can be considered. The decree contemplates, as I have already said, these exceptionalities, but there is always room to improve it. In the third point, we called for the cooperation of all the institutions, both the Basque Government and the Parliament, to work together to ensure the transport of pupils from non-compulsory education, since these are not included in the decree. We believe, then, that this education must be based on the collaboration of all to improve those exceptions. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Molina. Passing on the answering shift, somebody was going to say something... ? Now that the debate is over, we're going to vote for the Basque Popula, Euskal Socialists, together with Podemos, EH, and the Eubertarian Actors. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 72; the votes are 74; the supporters are 74; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; the abstainations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-08.u65	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was two and fifteen in the afternoon.
