ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we start, I warn you that the third point has been left for another. First point in theme list: "All the corrections proposed to the bill of law to change the law against Doping in the Pacific. The discussion and the vote. "Mingorn has the word to explain and defend the bill." Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u1	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, president, chief departments, good days. I appreciate you giving me the chance to come in front of you and introduce you to the whole meeting of the New Year's Doping Act. Even on the 4th of October, I had the chance to show up in front of the Basque Cultural, Basque, and the Sports Board, and if I had to collect in one single sentence the attitudes I'd heard, I'd say the opinion of all the teams was made clear that the law was considered indispensable. In order to change the force of the law, it's the same text that I sent to the legislature as it was before, and it's not just a joke. It is more round than this, for in the previous term there had been several instances, arranged for the knowledge of the opinions and views of the scholars in the committee, and each time it became clear that it was necessary to change and adjust the law which we had formed. I'm here to defend the law plan that wants to establish changes, so in the name of fun, we're forced to see it-and to encourage, to increase, and to ensure the policy against the sports doping. The Basque parliament who accepted the anti-Doping Act at 2012, in strength five years ago. At that time, fighting against the doping of sports, it took for its foundation the principles of the state and the preponderant institutions of the nation, because the law, the common legal camp, is necessary. Those principles were derived from the World Anti-Doping Code, the common international framework for sports organizations developed by the World Anti-Doping Agency in 2003. The global code had been configured as a set of mandatory rules and guidelines for the international sport movement, the inevitable reference for public institutions involved in the fight against doping. This code of 2003 has since undergone many changes: November 2013 to the opposite of Doping. He was a convenient world in Johannesburg in South Africa. Some sports organizations and representatives of the state were part of it, and on January 1st, 2015, the new anti-Catch of Doping was accepted. As a result, in 2016 the Basque Government sent a new bill to Parliament, which included amendments resulting from the new global code; however, the completion of the tenth legislature did not allow for its adoption. The legislative timetable drawn up by the Basque Government for this parliamentary term reflects the fallen draft, and has been approved by the Basque Government on the same terms as in the previous parliamentary term. That is what we have presented to Parliament for debate and approval. I turn to comment on the main developments that the text incorporates. Firstly, the approved text recognises the Basque Anti-Doping Agency as the specialized service responsible for carrying out the functions assigned to it by the Basque public administration. Izan ere, Eusko Jaurlaritzako Kultura eta Hizkuntza Politika Sailaren nahia da Dopinaren Aurkako Euskal Agentzia Dopinaren Aurkako Munduko Agentziako kide egitea. The second round of news will be a reminder of punishment. The suspension established for very serious breach of rule will be increased in four years, and consequently will be doubled if the punishment established for taking specific substances, if will be shown (as we speak of spontaneous substances, we speak of the improvement of sports experience). In addition to this, the new law will extend for ten years in three years the price of precepts. Thirdly, The new text brings two breaches of rule into its Articles: On the one hand, to help you to commit a breach of rule, any conspiracy, any secret action, or any other kind of complicity will be punished. On the other hand, credit will also be punished for having done something to do with doping. To this end, the list of forbidden assistants will be sent to the sportsmen, so that they may not be concerned with information to complete this policy. As a fourth point, he proposes the ability to control all the people who participate in sports contests or activities, rather than as we have hitherto, the new bill of law, which only controlled the license sportsmen. The new law also forbids him to work with his subordinates (for example, bishops or coaches) because he has some relation to doping. For that purpose, the list of forbidden assistants will be sent to sportsmen. In fine, the project to change the law anticipates a new choice: the biological sample can be examined in labs that have permission to do with the World Agency in opposition to Doping. There are three main reasons for bringing this bill of law, and I want to mention all three of them. First, The Contradiction of Doping to the New World, in the 1st of January, 2015. Second, confessing the Euscalal Agency in the opposite Euscalia to the General Administration of Erdigo, as a special organ for developing functions in doping themes. And finally, it must be remembered that around the established law, there were different interpretations made by the Basque and State Administration. This is why the staff commission of the two different administrations made a reading, and the consequence of the agreement has been brought to the bill. In total, the amendment of the law we submit affects nineteen articles of the 2012 law and incorporates an additional provision and a final provision. Finally, with regard to animal doping, I would like to point out that the current anti-doping law of 2012 regulates a number of aspects that specifically affect the sport in which animals are involved, which are not altered by the amendment we are presenting today. Moreover, to a greater extent, the 2012 anti-doping law, as well as the actions carried out by the anti-doping authorities and the protection of animal welfare, both in the Basque Country and in the historical territories, all demonstrate a firm commitment in all matters relating to this matter or field. The Anti-Doping Act 2012 provides for the development of such a regulatory provision to regulate in a detailed or specific way issues that particularly affect the sport in which animals are involved. Precisely on this development regulation, the Basque Anti-Doping Agency is already working in collaboration with both the sports federations concerned and the other authorities with competence in livestock. It is important to point out that the protection of animal welfare in sports competitions with animals, especially in the testing of oxen included in the programmes of the sports federations of autochthonous sport, has already been carried out through the actions carried out by the authorities of the historical territories with competence in livestock. In this way, the Basque Anti-Doping Agency and sports federations are working on doping control in competitions involving animals in order to establish an appropriate regulatory framework. As has been said at first, the change which we wish to make to the opponent law of the Dopings of Sports has only one purpose: to complete the criteria supported by the Anti-Doping Agency, who is a referer in the world class, and therefore to adapt our law to the new code of the World Agency. Thus they have done, and thus do the several authorities and institutions of the world with their laws, which is to be done by us. The changes we present are quite technical, and the purpose is to have the same criteria as all of us in the fight with doping, which are laid down by the anti-Doping Agency in the world, and it's best to adapt our law as quickly as possible. The law that we present, therefore, adapts to the real needs of sport, and follows the same pattern as the normative provisions of other fields; it abounds in the most important aspects in this field, and combines the forecasts of the said World Anti-Doping Code and the legal framework of the Basque Country in relation to sport. It also includes a special regime for infringements or sanctions, which is one of the aspects or issues where harmonisation or homogenisation is absolutely necessary. I am confident that the project we are presenting will receive the necessary support from this House as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u2	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. We'll go in next round and the opposite round. Does someone else have to participate in the side shift? No. So, together, the Representative of the Podemos group has the word to prevent the full correction. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u3	Mila esker, Tejeria andrea. Egun on, yellow lehendakari. Good morning to all the women parliamentarians. It is up to us to begin today's plenary session with the debate on the draft amendment of the Anti-Doping in Sport Act presented by the Directorate of Physical Activity and Sport. From Elkarrekin Podemos, and we have expressed this in our speeches during the process of appearances and debate in the committee, we would like to stress the importance of this document and the need for the revision and updating of the Anti-Doping Act. In this way, we highly appreciate the adaptation and updating of this institution to the international framework and the World Anti-Doping Code. While the bill envisages improvements and makes proposals called for by different players in the sport sector for a long time, in the opinion of our group it leaves key points undeveloped and unadapted in full and complete to the real needs of the fight against doping in sport, in all its fields and disciplines. For Elkarrekin Podemos, this project suffers from some shortcomings that we are going to try to list below and that we would like them to be taken into account, so that among all of us we draw up a law according to the new times and needs of sport in Euskadi. Firstly, the development by law of the biological passport or the card of the athlete is, in our view, an integral element within the innovative strategies in the fight against doping, which would serve to increase the safety and health of our athletes from an early age to senior or professional categories. The world of sport and anti-doping continue to evolve in the face of growing challenges. Access to and supply of prohibited substances has increased dramatically in recent decades, finding these substances now easily via the Internet. New substances are more difficult to detect, and their potential to provide a significant economic benefit has encouraged the presence of sophisticated supply groups and networks for these substances. It is therefore essential to develop and implement the new modules of the athlete's biological passport in order to detect and prevent doping. On the other hand, we also find it essential to create and disseminate clear anti-doping programmes, the content of which seeks citizen awareness at all levels. The various practices of doping have always been a clear violation of the fundamental principles of sports ethics; nowadays doping has gone beyond the scope of sports ethics to become a public health problem. These programmes should be developed from the point of view of institutional collaboration, with the participation of all agencies and actors in the sector. These will include information, training, dissemination and awareness-raising activities, as well as prevention activities, in the areas of health and doping. One of the most significant shortcomings we have encountered in this modification of the project is the absence of references to a clear and defined section on animal doping. This type of doping is also deplorable, and must be pursued and contemplated in this law. It is evidence and a reality that we must also contemplate the presence of doping substances in animal organisms. The word doping itself was born to refer to animals: it was first recorded in 1889 to call a mixture of opium and narcotics used in horse racing. In fact, the first anti-doping controls were not with humans, but carried out to quadrupeds participating in races and competitions in 1910. In Euskadi, the power competitions between healthy animals, which are entangled with their own rural traditions, have been contaminated to the point that the livestock themselves suspect each other. The extent of corruption in these modalities has significantly decreased the betting market, a conclusive proof of the generalization of the stakes. There have been several dead oxen and horses after competing in various Basque localities in the last three years. We cannot look elsewhere at this reality. Bernardo Ureta, former president of the Basque Federation of Herri Kirolak, left office in 2016 in the face of impotence in his fight against doping in these devalued rural trials. Ureta stated on several occasions that the outlaw authorities washed their hands when they detected a positive, leaving everything to the federations, which – I quote in text – "are a perverse circle, which have no resources to deal with its processing and instruction". The situation worsened so much, that it seems to have caught the attention of the Basque Government at last, and this year several investigations have been opened into irregular conduct with competing animals. The habit of abusing animals to succeed in sport with traps could be seriously hampered if we finally face the problem from the institutions with a specific law, or with a specific and detailed section to be included in this law amendment. Another measure that should be included in the final document adopted for the fight against doping in sport in Euskadi is the creation of a public and searchable anti-doping register, respecting and always considering the Data Protection Act. In addition, as envisaged in the Government's proposal, any subsidy or aid should be denied to any sports or sports entity that has been sanctioned for violating anti-doping legislation or that refuses to submit to the relevant controls. For Elkarrekin We should also claim any public aid received. In the text before us, one of the most important changes concerns infringements, which will raise penalties as serious, so that in cases where the infringement is related to a specific substance whose objective is not to deal with a problem, but to strictly improve sport performance, and to demonstrate intentionality, penalties will increase from two to four years. For us, however, it would also be necessary to introduce changes in economic sanctions for sportsmen, clubs, teams and sports entities, hardening them and increasing them considerably. Finally, we would like to point out that preventive measures are essential in the fight against doping, and to implement them it is essential to have an economic budget and an annual allocation for the development of these measures related to the prevention, research and development of new anti-doping preventive activities at all levels of sport. We do want to point out that the recognition of the Basque Anti-Doping Agency as the body competent to carry out anti-doping work is one of the key contributions of the new document and we value it in a positive way. For all the above, and making our readiness to cooperate very clear, we tabled a full amendment to the bill amending the Anti-Doping in Sport Act in Euskadi. For us, one of the fundamental objectives of the anti-doping struggle is to ensure that the future generation of athletes is healthy, happy, and competes on equal terms. For this it is essential that, with the combined activities of the sports world and its agents together with the public authorities, we send a powerful message. When the Government and sport coordinate their efforts, the fight against doping gains in effectiveness. This harmonized and collaborative approach between these two forces in the fight against doping is the fundamental reason underlying the World Anti-Doping Code, and it is the same spirit from which we believe we must start to implement the document before us today. From Elkarrekin We can appreciate that the regulatory proposal of the Basque Government is insufficient and does not reflect all the realities and needs of the sector. We need to be innovative and strong in the fight against doping. If we want sport and physical activity to be part of the daily life of all people living in Euskadi, we cannot promote traps, and we must encourage among the youngest people in our society an inclusive, ethical exercise of physical activity with ourselves and with animals. Equal conditions are fundamental in the training and development of the different competitions. The world of sport has been splashed in recent times by a number of scandals that reveal the dangers that haunt it today and that affect its credibility in the eyes of amateurs and amateurs. Doping is one of them. From institutions, responsible agencies and governments, we must try to deal with these threats, with greater prevention and surveillance efforts, new, more restrictive regulations, and tougher sanctions. Of all, and from coordination, we have to look for measures to deal with activities that move billions around the world. You have to see what lies behind these plots and who gets rich at the expense of the health of sportsmen and sportswomen, but this is another matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. After that, we'll go on to the opposite round. Carmelo, yes, Eucabertians, Basque Socialists... Then, Monsieur Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u5	Egun on. Thank you, Madam President. Lehendakari, councillors, ladies and gentlemen. Well, we do not share the opportunity to return this bill to the Government; we understand that the bill is timely. It is timely in relation to its processing, which is certainly perfectable, we have no doubt, and a parliamentary and legislative working document on which we can work perfectly. That is to say, I believe that there are no objective conditions for expressing opposition to this government document sent to us by Parliament. We, of course, want that with our partial amendments. Besides, I don't know, we don't understand the speech very well, because the speech, which you have made, is of necessity of the bill, regulation. We do not understand very well that there are no partial amendments on your part. Yes, there was a somewhat maximalist whole amendment to the bill, but there are no partial amendments. It is precisely in general that the whole amendment is supplemented by partial amendments, which support precisely the arguments that you have put us here in the House, in relation to developing or improving or perfecting a document like this, which you yourself have stated is necessary. I think their approaches are also, one way or another (they may be, they may be better), but they are in one way or another included in regulations. In this regulation – it could probably have been expanded – or in other regulations on doping in sport. But it is possible that there may be some possibility of improvement. We will try to do that in the presentation procedure in relation to this text. That possibility of improvement, of course, does not justify, from our point of view, a full amendment. No, it doesn't justify it at all. I do not think that a whole amendment is appropriate, it is not appropriate to return the text to the Government. It is appropriate to work on it, and to deal with it definitively, because the required modification is necessary, in addition to the keys to what is the World Anti-Doping Code, of that Johannesburg congress. That code came into force in 2015, and it certainly needs to be adjusted. We understand that this is the case. It could not be done, as the Councillor recalled, at the end of the last legislature, which was practically the possibility but the legislature was over, and of course we have to take up the issue again. Moreover, after having heard the experts on this issue in the previous legislature, there is no doubt that this issue, this issue, the Basque doping law, should be reformed as far as possible. That is why we, as a parliamentary group, need to work on the bill, to get the best match to the practice of a sport that we all want a sport without traps, a sport without doping. And furthermore, as I said at the beginning, you, Mrs García, have acknowledged the need, and it is a fundamental element. He talks about shortcomings, but not concrete ones in partial amendments, which might have been interesting. I believe that the speech you have made is not an opposition speech, it is a speech of improvement in regulation. That's why we're surprised. I mean, the issues that you've been talking about, that are also left undeveloped points... Then they could have been developed with the input you would have made! On animal doping, we understand that there is also a question here that has nothing to do with this adequacy that the World Anti-Doping Code calls for; it has to do with the actions of many factors (the Basque Government, the outlaws...), in relation to the neutralization of these traps in rural sport. There are different or conflicting approaches to the records you put forward, but I want to say that they can be talked about. Hardening the amounts of sanctions does not seem to me to be an essential issue for an amendment of the whole, either to be able to debate it or to be able to make an analysis. And, of course, the budget allocation is not part of the need for a legislative document either, but is part of the normal activity of the Executive, which can be required through the regular budgets. That is to say, I believe that in this respect there is an opposition approach which we do not understand very well, Mrs García, and we will vote against your amendment as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u6	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Next up, Basque Socialists. Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u7	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I should like to express my opposition to the amendment tabled in its entirety, because we have already expressed it with regard to the draft law at the hearing of the adviser within the committee. And we stand again, Mr. Counselor, in favour of him. And with regard to the amendment in its entirety, some of the arguments have already been put forward by Mr Barrio, who, with the greatest respect, we really understand that there is no support for the introduction of the amendment in its entirety. And more so after listening to the speech, in which the proposer and the one maintaining the amendment in its entirety makes a positive assessment not only of the need, but of the opportunity to amend the 2012 law, given the codes that have been approved by the international agencies. It had to be done, and I thought the opportunity was shared. Also with regard to these points, which are briefly mentioned in the whole amendment, partial amendments could have been tabled, as other parliamentary groups have done, in addition to some of the points mentioned in the whole amendment. And we could have worked on the paper, I believe, a much broader text, on the political consensus that already exists and that I do not doubt that even after presenting the amendment in its entirety, given the explanations that have been given. It could have been done otherwise, both the athlete's card (I say in everything mentioned) and the anti-doping programmes, animal doping, the registration of anti-doping activity and the sanctions regime. In addition, some partial amendments will be discussed in the course of these subjects. That is why we do not understand the amendment as a whole, and that is why, as we do not want to return a project with such broad political and institutional consensus, we are going to vote against the amendment as a whole. That is so, ready to work on this and other matters that the parliamentary groups have tabled by partial amendment, so that – as the Councillor and I believe he has reiterated – we can reach that much broader agreement. With regard to some of the questions raised, it is also that they are already provided for in the law that amends – the counselor has said – regarding the health card, animal doping and some other question, but with regard to the biological passport you also know the matter well: you know that it is an instrument at international level, but we cannot restrict ourselves to that, because in this matter research and technology are opening more and more doors for the common objective of combating doping. Therefore, I truly believe in your provision that this law should come out, by necessity and by opportunity, and that is why I believe that all these contributions could have been made through partial amendments. I cannot fail to say that I invite you to work on the paper, even though it is through the partial amendments tabled by other parliamentary groups (EH Bildu and the People's Party), because some of these issues are also dealt with. Because I believe that no political group in the House should really be left out of a law – I don't know if there are going to be many like this in Parliament – which enjoys such broad consensus on the content and the need to adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Eubertarians. Madam, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief physician, good morning to all. As a matter of fact, we took a surprise when this correction was reported, when we saw this full correction. We were waiting to prove it, and instead of being entirely correct, we waited to be partial to them and to be able to trace them to their power. And our attitude, the consideration of correction, is clear, we are opposed, especially in the forms you've used, and like those who have spoken before me, we don't understand how you've formulated it. We don't agree in form, or rather we don't understand. We've been studying over and over what you've done, but we don't understand what you've done, and we're expecting you to-day, when we've heard what you wanted to do, maybe we'd understand what you wanted to do, but we've still had a bigger surprise, because your position has been that if it's the position of the collapse, and if it's not the way it is, and if it's not this plan of law, the amendments should be partial, and they'd have to appear in crime. And therefore we conclude two choices in the representation of this correction: you have not cultivated, idleness, and you have not undertaken the law project as you were to do, as you have said by article, to make your contributions to a Collaborative picture; or else you don't understand what the law is like, because when you present such a correction and open your hand to it, there must be partial amendments, that all of you might be able to debate or dispute. The Chief Department himself explains the principal purpose of this change, and I shall not repeat it again, and even during the previous law, we had different results from the Security Department, the Department of Health... We also had representatives of the American Union, and you, the Podemos, who have been introduced together, and they have all been on the side of this change, and especially those who have the legal profile, have considered this change as necessary, so that we have not really understood what it was that you intended to do. I won't fit in much of the justification of the text you've presented. I think that you enter into more precise matters, and may perhaps be interesting in those ideas which you mention, that the participation of animals, or the sensibilization of society ought to increase, may be disputed. But I do not believe that these are modes, and there are other forums to discuss it, as other groups have done, in order to pass steps among them, in those articles which perceive the necessity of change. And therefore the power will be completed, we shall all discuss this project for the change of the law, but your contributions in this power will be zero. You will have no content to contribute. So we just want to keep on making steps against doping on our team, and that's why we're gonna vote against this correction and we're gonna stand up for maximum training. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Hugueg. Passing on the answers, Mrs. García, your word is yours... Aren't you going to say a word? We'll go to the vote. Now that the argument's over, we're going to vote about whether he comes back or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 71; supporters 10; counters, 61; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u11	So it doesn't come back to the Law Project. Next, vote. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u12	Good morning. We vote negative because it's not an integer correction. This correction does not imply a contrariety to the law project, and generally full corrections are a contrariety to the content of the bill. What we see is, that in the whole correction of Podemos, which has been introduced by Podemos, a revolt is made about the privations of the law, or about the properties which Podemos thought ought to constitute this law. It's more likely that, for some reason, what reason does it seem to me, that Podemos has not had time to make partial corrections, and that he has used the whole to make one of those partial corrections? It seems to us, however, that there are several interesting accounts of which he speaks, and that we can take into consideration the project in order to work the law. Our team has made several corrections, we've made 30 corrections, and at least we're prepared to work among the different groups to form as many laws as possible. For, after all, the law we have in hand is the adaptation of a law which is looking into nationality, but we should do our homework well to get on in our own self-generacy. Then again, in the correction of the whole, there are several accounts mentioned which, in our opinion, are excluded from the nature of a project of laws, which ought once to be accepted and done after the law (e.g. the plan). For it is one thing to have a frame, but then we all know that if the law does not develop, it remains in the drawer and that the laws are not fulfilled. For example, the plan should be a future task, or when you say it would have to be in the budget. We believe that this too is a dispute of another sphere, and that it is not an element that is treated in an integer or in the nature of a law project. I have already mentioned moving forward in the auto-engineine, in our independence, because I want to remember what happened to us in the previous legislation when the law began to take its course. And I feel like we have to remember that. From Madrid came reports telling us in Madrid... but Mr. Zupiria tells us that different interpretations were made between Madrid and the Basque mad, and that the difference was agreed on the Committee of the Two. But then, at the same time, we have been told that there is no change and no correction. We shall see what happens, but it seems to us that, because I am convinced, it is built or built on every side by the decrees which are daily taken of independence, and that we ought to study ourselves in our independence, and defend our manual. We'll see what happens in the transfer and what's going to happen.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Second point on the subject list: "Mation, introduced by the parliamentary members of the Popula team, Carmelo Barrio Barroja, in relation to the exact medical system of Esscal health." The proposer's turn. Mr. Barrio, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u14	Thank you, President. Good morning again, counselors. I will not go too far, because the agreement we have reached is broad. This motion is a consequence of the question that we raised about precision medicine in the past in full control of Mr Darpón, in which we were able to see the opportunity to give what we wanted, an impulse to what is already a need for the future in health care by the health system at all levels. It is true that we have reached a broad agreement, to which I will refer shortly, and that in every governmental sphere and in every health decision-making system, such as our health system, we must promote precisely what we commented on in the interpellation, the unstoppable impulse, the total impulse, but also coordinated, and strategic, in relation to the implementation of the so-called precision medicine or personalized medicine, also called genomic medicine. The development of this form of medicine today is already a matter of the governments fundamentally; in addition, as it has been so far, of the theorists, or researchers, or scientific societies. Today it has already been installed in the needs of governments that manage public health systems, such as ours, and of course its evolution – I repeat – is dizzying in the health system and in medicine. Recently we have also been reading in the specialized media various news concerning the development of this dimension of medicine. Perhaps news that doesn't come out so much in the ordinary or non-specialistic media, generalists, but in certain specialized media, in relation to development and this new dimension of medicine. And we have also seen a political debate set in motion, in the political development of the main institutions: the Senate takes the first step for the presentation in precision medicine; they also make important initiatives in the Congress of Deputies. Precision medicine will take place in pathologies such as diabetes; experts also hope that in five years this type of personalized therapies will be used in chronic diseases. Also the pharmaceutical or pharmacological dimension of all this: the pharmacist must be a reference in precision medicine, expand these specialized media. They also say that we are ready for a state strategy in precision medicine, as we should be for a European strategy, an international strategy in relation to this new dimension of medicine. They also say that precision medicine will be one of the star themes that will be hosted by the two chambers of the Courts. And in addition to these health press news are other positions, recent positions, some of them very relevant, such as that of the scientific societies of Medical Oncology, Pathological Anatomy or Hospital Pharmacy, and their clear proposals made public, for the development of precision medicine in our country. Precisely this document, prepared by these three scientific societies, says that precision medicine is transforming clinical and biomedical research as well as health care, both conceptually and methodologically, offering extraordinary opportunities to improve public health and reduce the costs of the health system." And they say these scientific societies: "Without a general strategy, precision medicine, which will be implemented in any case, could do so without proper planning to ensure the technical quality, fairness of citizens in access to best practices, violating the rights of patients and professionals and risking the solvency of the health system." That is why we consider that general strategy, that coordinated strategy to which we have referred, in any case, and to which we also mentioned in the previous inquiry. Precision medicine not only involves the personalization of medicine, but also plays a very important role in prevention and life habits. In this field, technological advances are the best tool to support personalized medicine. There are, as I mentioned earlier, a number of proposals, and a proposal for the creation of a general strategy, a state strategy on precision medicine, by scientific societies (as I said, oncology, pathological anatomy or hospital pharmacy); there are proposals for recommendations. In the implementation of programmes to promote genomic medicine, the active role of Governments, as we have also mentioned, is essential, and in the past we agreed, in that regard, the adviser and the interpellationist. On the other hand, the creation of a funding framework, as well as the promotion of research and innovation, are the key tools for enhancing the changes that will enable the health system to adapt to precision medicine, without leading to wear and tear for sustainability. And we have been looking at how they have been addressed in recent important forums, some sponsored by universities but others of other characteristics, such as the XXIV Congress of Health Law, or the VI World Congress of Pharmaceutical Sciences, how they have highlighted in these important forums the important role that the incorporation of genetic footprint and the analysis of natural language in evolution in the precision medicine itself plays. As was recalled in the interpellation two weeks ago, genetics should be a component (it should be, is being and is being assumed, logically) essential in medical practice, for the advantages it represents: a better diagnosis for thousands of genetic diseases, genetic advice, early diagnosis and prevention in families; prognostic assessment to prevent sudden death, cancer, which is where more is being worked, or stroke; personalized treatment, selection of the best therapy for each individual, discover disease mechanisms to find new treatments, research and development for the benefit of patients and new generations. That is, precision medicine offers citizens personalized, predictive, preventive and participatory attention. We are talking about citizens, not patients, because this medicine also applies to healthy people, with a real preventive value. In short, we can affirm that personalized medicine is changing our world, our ability to understand diseases, in addition to being linked to what we call the empowerment of the patient, its protagonist, in this case the citizen as well. On the other hand, and from the point of view of the financing of the health system, there were no resources years ago to make a diagnosis by sequencing the genome; however, the reduction of costs at present, thanks to the enormous advances in technology, has allowed genomic medicine to become an increasingly present reality in the health systems where it is already being installed, and most of the countries in our environment have put in place plans to implement it. Among the elements that can be substantially improved with precision medicine – we also recalled the other day – are the diagnosis of any genetic-based disease, molecular diagnosis in hereditary and sporadic cancer, pharmacogenetics, pharmacogenomics, preventing toxicities and predicting the therapeutic response (a huge number of complications in relation to these issues occur today due to the use of false drugs or incorrect drugs for the treatment of pathologies); preconceptional, pre-implantational, prenatal medicine; susceptibility to diseases and preventable events... On the other hand, the genomic test can replace hundreds of medical studies, and will help in the analysis of the compatibility of transplants or in the development of preventive behaviors that limit the risk of disease. There is therefore a need for plans, strategies of genomic medicine, precision medicine, personalized medicine. It is extremely interesting the document recently prepared by the Roche Institute, of proposals, of recommendations for a strategy of personalized medicine of precision. This document analyses this need for changes objectively, and describes also the experiences, the actions being carried out in autonomous communities, in Europe, in European countries, in the United States, and also refers to the reality of the Basque Country with the RIS3 plan and with the link to the European Horizon 2020 plan in relation to health-related topics, where this approach to precision medicine is present. Well, in the end we have come to a compromise proposal, in fact, a proactive proposal. That is, knowing that there are limbs, knowing that we work – because we also know people linked to this issue in our hospitals, mainly linked to cancer – but we know that we need to work more, that we need to keep moving forward. And that is the purpose of the compromise proposal, the initial motion and the compromise that we have agreed with all the amending parliamentary groups. Of course, we urge the Basque Government to continue working to develop actions and programmes aimed at the progressive implementation of precision personalized medicine. In this regard, during the next session, as already announced, the comprehensive oncological plan of Euskadi, in which it will be identified, will be presented the actions to be carried out in relation to the implementation of precision medicine. It's very important. The Bildu Group also spoke of a report in its entire amendment. We understand that this is a good first step, the oncology plan of Euskadi, so that there are the foundations for what can be a more powerful development of precision medicine, and, of course, I believe that that is why the amendment of the whole has been timely, and to have understood that the plan can serve as that previous report in relation to that study, in this area, serving as a starting point to analyze the options existing in order to progressively extend precision medicine in the health field. And a second point, too, which has to do with that momentum, with that need for coordination, with those strategies. The Basque Government is therefore urged to continue to participate actively in the initiatives and strategies on personalized medicine carried out at the state, European and international levels aimed at identifying actions that can allow translation into clinical practice in an orderly manner, ensuring the quality, equity and sustainability of the health system. Something fundamental. It is the key moment today, in relation to this development, it is a key moment, it is a moment that governments are perceiving in Europe, in the world, of course here. And there are many things to do, there is a path that we with this motion have wanted to drive and support decisively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u15	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing to the leaders' groups, representing the EH Collect Group. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u16	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. I must admit my ignorance in this matter. In this chamber, when Mr. Barrio introduced an interpenetration and a consequence, I was left to you; it is the subject of strict medicine, custom medicine, or genomic medicine. I had heard something about it, but honestly I can't make a complete intervention of the knowledge I need if I don't understand what I'm saying to go down here and get out of my time. Therefore, to begin with, I must be grateful to Monsieur Barri for bringing information and bringing them to this Chamber, which certainly gave me occasion to learn new things. And this is exactly what I have done during the last few days: learn, read, ask some experts. As a matter of fact, I haven't found much information in Basque Autonomy Er-Hornami class. In the new strategic plan introduced by Biodonosis, and in the strategy of intelligent RIS3 specialisation, there is but little of this, for instance, Osteba has not published reports about it. On the other hand, we may say that the subject which we are able to discuss is principally used in the sphere of politics, and that this practice changes the manner in which cancer is treated and medical results. In addition, according to Mr. Darpón, precision medicine in the oncological field is not only useful to diagnose the presence of a pathology, but it is also valuable to identify the treatments that best suit each type of patient. Therefore, to better know the benefits of medicine, I have used the instrument I use when I do not succeed in mastering them, that is to say, to put them in the place of a sick man, and so many things are better known and understood. Therefore, and from the perspective of a patient, would we like the Basque Health Service to treat us with such a pathology, let's say, to the letter; if we are treated in a completely individualized way, applying treatments according to our response or results, or according to our genetics; is it more, if we could avoid developing such a disease or we could diagnose it at its earliest stage thanks to our genetic predisposition? It would not only be good for people already sick; it would be good for society in general, it would be economically more sustainable for the Basque Health Service, because in many cases many costs would be saved... It is not about saving in treatment, it is about investing in prevention, health promotion and early diagnosis. That is the sustainable and desirable. In addition, we believe that in some cases this is already done. But if this is what you propose, we'll buy it for you, and we'll buy it for you. The problem is that the issue is not as simple as it seems, and these advances, the achievements in the field of research, can be implemented or even made from different areas. And that's exactly where our doubts or fears lie. For instance, we know that the members of the members of Coalicion de' Medici are known to be the pharmaceutical labs, clinical labs, and private diseases. Most of the time, there's private interests behind this, and it's important that you listen to them. That's exactly the fear we have. EHG has often said that it is not possible to allow private interests, or many multinational interests, to profit by the disease or degeneracy of persons. Then, admitting a few steps further, on the one hand, and on the other, if we consider that there are certain areas of improvement and cultivation, it would be well for us to explain the plans or intentions of the Medical Department about all this. It would be good to have this implementation shared and agreed to: With EHU, with operators, with different political groups, and experts, others. For us, it's important that all these practices should not be retarded in the EAE world. It's important to know what's gonna be done and when all this is gonna be done. But it is even more important to know how and by means of the accuracy of medicine. It is, after all, what we have wished to establish by our correction of the whole world. But it is also true that, as we have been told, the application of precision medicine in Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa is in its embryonic phase, and that at the moment it is only applicable in the oncological area, without prejudice to its gradual application in other areas. The compromise amendment speaks precisely of this, of presenting in this Parliament the lines of action to implement precision medicine, but within the Comprehensive Oncological Plan of Euskadi. We have tools, we have researchers who do a very valuable and reference work in many cases, there are sufficient public resources to go on approaching precision medicine little by little. Slower, but it'll be better. And this doesn't seem like a bad starting point. That is why we have signed this compromise amendment; but, yes, with our reservations and trusting that this time the department will present us with an effective plan, widely agreed and contrasted and fed and planned from the public. Because that approach would differ considerably from the last plan that the Department of Health has put before us. That is why we say that we have our reservations (that of waiting lists), both in the content and in the attitude he has had with this group. When we treat of delicate matters, it is proper to avoid all political interests, as we have done at present, for the benefit of all, in order to give them another image, and at least when we are proposing or constructive, we expect the same answer. Let's hope we get it this time. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Basque Socialists represent the group. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u18	Thank you, President. And good morning to you all. Indeed, the issue of precision medicine is a topic that can be covered or raised in a more general way, which is how I am going to try to do it myself, or, indeed, as Mrs Blanco put it, trying to convey some of those specific points, which we can also talk about but which would perhaps lead us to break that agreement that we have today, since we each have our points of view and to reach an agreement we all leave hairs in the catera. Indeed, the subject that Mr Barrio brings to us today comes as a result of an inquiry that he made to the Councilman, in which we obtained the explanation that the Basque Government understood of the actions that he had to do in what has to do with precision medicine or also called personalized medicine. The Socialist Group advocates that the health system should seek its development in the future with the incorporation of research, innovation and technological innovations that improve or involve a high-profile health offer to citizens. Because we all actually share or should share that the first thing is the public interest, over and above any other interest, and, of course, on the health issue it cannot be understood in any other way. These actions represent improvements for the citizen. Improvements in diagnosis, which can be faster and less aggressive, and, of course, improvements in treatment. More specific treatments, less aggressive as well, and shortening hospital stays. On the other hand, we advocate the improvement of the efficiency of the health system, because they allow us to recover resources from staff, beds and equipment to offer them to other pathologies, and thus make the Basque health system a more effective and efficient system. We are therefore talking about reorganizing resources and reorganizing them. These incorporations of genomic medicines allow a more preventive, personalized medicine, which allows citizens to develop a better quality of life, avoiding the emergence of diseases that hinder the development of a full life. That is why Mr Barrio said that it is a medicine that not only applies to a patient who already has a pathology or who is diagnosed, but it is also effective for the healthy citizen. Counter-performance is the sustainability of the system. We need to make the public health system a sustainable system, and we need to see what resources need to be invested in the medicine of the future, as well as being able to continue to respond to the medical needs of the present. That is why our amendment, tabled by the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group, recognized the need to collaborate and coordinate with the rest of the health systems in our environment, both Spanish and European, in order to enhance the results in the field of precision medicine. Obviously, those who have preceded me in speaking have spoken about prevention policies, research, the sustainability of the system, which I believe are concepts on which we all agree. EH Bildu had at the time put forward a compromise amendment, which we understood was not enough to investigate, which of course must be done and our researchers must be empowered and supported. We also believe that this research must be transferred to practical, more technological clinical innovation. We share, as we have already said, that the scope should be broad, since we understand that the theme of medicine must have a global collaboration, since in the end we share patients, resources, and knowledge. We understand that this is a complex issue, as Mrs Blanco raised, on which there are edges if we go into detail, but the Socialist Group welcomes the agreement reached, and we understand that the Basque Government will continue to work on this issue. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u19	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians. Mr. Greene, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u20	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, President. Good morning, congressmen. Good morning, everyone. Well, as Mrs. Blanco said, it's a very complex subject, it's not easy to talk about it. I think, on the basis, or at least, after the interpenetration, that we all unite together, that it is an opportunity to give the people a better sense of health, that a new road is opening, and that we have to do everything in our power to help them. When you came to the Motion, when you asked the chief physician what measures are, what measures he foresees, or what steps or initiatives are expected from the Medical Department, or the Esquire, I think he mentioned the intentions, the plans, and what plans are, and what the context of the present day, and the subject which he was so focused on, has been taken up in this field, either deep steps or at least the first step, within that circle. It is true, too, and as Mr. Carmelo Barrius has mentioned, it is not confined to this, that he affects many other pathologicals or even diseases or treatments. In this sense, it is plain that the steps to be done must be made in the transberl manner of inquiry, and so on. The health department, when it is at the end of the New World, now made it clear that, apart from research, these steps are concentrated on the health department in goodsological care, and especially in the case of the gatherings, the intention of bringing them into the legislature for the next session, there is a function in which direction is specially a function of direction with the Companion of your plans, and this third axis will receive more precision or more precise medically with the goodology of the establishment. That's why I think when we had the initiative in hand, it wasn't hard for all the teams to... Well, Mr. Uria, I don't know what his attitude will be yet, but at least for the rest of the teams it wasn't difficult to get in harmony. I think it was very clear in the intermediary what's going to happen from now on, and what's going to be the next move and what's going to be. I think, in that sense, that it wasn't difficult for us all to get in agreement. It seemed right to us that the EH collect party should put a starting-point or set it up as a starting-point in this circle of the new medicine, and to see how the next enterprises of the Onkology can be extended to the other spheres. We are therefore satisfied or satisfied with the agreement we have obtained. We believe also that it would be good for us to unite the representatives of the Podemos in that sense. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u21	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. We're passing over to a group that hasn't been running any corrections together, Podemos. Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u22	Bakartxo Tejeria andrea, parliamentary and parliamentary colleagues and compañeras, egun on guztioi. Always a pleasure to greet you again. We will support the compromise amendment that everyone has signed on so-called precision medicine. We were not going to do it, we were going to abstain; I tell you briefly why, and I sit down. One of the most important problems we have in health policies around the world, and also in Euskadi, is the prices of medicines, as Mr Lehendakari and Mr Lehendakari are well aware. But not only the prices that go up and up without stopping, but the distance between the prices of the medicine and the prices of the cost of the medicines. The last example is with the hepatitis C medicine, which, as several publishers say in several scientific journals, the production process costs $165, and has been sold, the last price (full treatment), at 23,000 euros, if the counselor does not correct me. This is also the case with precision medicine. A few decades ago molecular biology laboratories identified that parts of the genetic burden, parts of the genome and the proteoma could know and predict some diseases, especially in the case of so-called chronic degenerative diseases, including cancer. We are not talking about the genetic diseases themselves, which we already have more than ten screening diseases that are made to all and all newborns in Euskadi to prevent, to identify, to detect ten pure genetic diseases. We're not talking about that; we're talking about part of the genome that can predict some chronic degenerative diseases. This was a revolution. Not only for cancer, but for a set, for some hundreds of diseases called also, some of them, rare diseases. The multinational pharmaceutical companies owning the research laboratories rushed to two tasks, as is normal. The first is to organize the patent system of new discoveries. There were always authors who said whether to discover part of a patient's DNA, of a person, if that was a new drug. There was a scientific discussion, which is not closed, but patents were made to avoid competition in a very interesting market, in a captive market, where one hundred percent of the population is likely to make the genetic map, or part of the genetic map. And in the next strategy they said, "Wow, whoa, whoa! This is clear: we need to talk to doctors, who prescribe these issues, we need to talk to scientific societies, we need to talk to professional colleges, we need to talk to the media, to governments, to parliamentarians and to political groups, about the goodness of this therapeutic proposal." And that's how it's done all over the world. Also in the Congress of Deputies, also in the Senate and also in this Parliament. The entire population, especially those who can afford it, the rich countries, are likely to develop their genomic map, identify diseases that could be detected in the genome and propose appropriate genetic modifications so that they do not occur. It is very attractive, this can be done in every susceptible person or vulnerable groups. The last data I collected before yesterday is that prices, prices of complete treatments were started, not just the map: it is estimated between $200,000 and $800,000 for each treatment. That's what you're paying for right now in the United States. Of course, governments, seeing these prices (the last prices I know are even higher), governments and public health systems of both types, both social security systems (such as France, Germany, and Austria) and national health system systems, such as ours, began to tremble. "It's impossible," some said; "It's intractable" others said; "This is not sustainable for public budgets" others said. And we say the majority: "This is going to break the public arches, especially in complete genomic cancer therapies, with personalized complete therapies," as parliamentarian Barrio explains very well. Elkarrekin We are in favour of scientific progress. All we have to do is congratulate ourselves on the progress that the health sciences are making and we have more and more elements to fight the disease and improve the quality of people's health. And we advocate the opportunity for people who need it to have access to new therapies. But the greed and greed of the multinationals and their boards of directors have no limit, Roche Foundation included. And they must calm down, and they must run ethically, in terms of rights, not goods. Governments must negotiate firmly with multinationals and establish appropriate alliances between political parties, between governments at the European level, among which we are on the same side, in order to force pharmaceutical lobbies to modify the unorthodox prices of new therapies. That is why we are unanimously proposing this amendment, where we will have time to discuss more deeply and slowly, within the framework of the Comprehensive Oncological Plan of Euskadi, what and how we are going to do. I don't think it's easy the health counselor's work in this line, because it's quite complicated how to adjust our people's interests to the interests of the multinational pharmaceutical boards of directors. You cannot imagine, what is the situation in at least the United States and in part of the countries of Europe: public budgets are being destroyed according to the fact that the boards of directors earn more, earn more and earn more. Welcome be science, welcome be new therapeutic abilities, especially for some diseases that do not have at this alternative time. Welcome are the researchers who in molecular biology laboratories investigate these new therapies. It cannot be welcomed to trade these proposals in such a disorbited way for the majority of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u23	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Reply's turn... Yes, from there, Monsieur Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u24	Thank you, Madam President. From the seat with your permission. Quite briefly, to thank of course for the support of all the parliamentary groups (the signatories and the non-amendant as well) for the compromise amendment. I think it's important. I would also like to thank Mr Uria and Mrs Blanco for their critical reflections on the subject. Indeed, as we are in a phase – some have said – embryonic or initial of this whole process, it is good to be aware also of the risks, the doubts, the fears, the mistrusts that may be. That is why I myself, when I referred in my initial speech to this policy in relation to precision medicine or personalized medicine, referred to the question of government. It is a matter of government, mainly the defense of public health, because behind the governments we are citizens, there are citizens, not only patients, because this medicine is already projected on and in favor of all citizens. That is why, at the same time as being able to push it forward and do so with knowledge of where the risks or mistrust lie, we have to do it in that strategic way that we said in the document itself, in the motion itself. Of course, as Mr Uria said, in this House I believe that we are all on the same side in relation to being aware that there are dangers or risks, but we are also all on the same side to support the government in the strategy that is revolutionary within medicine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u25	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Someone else wants to participate... ? We'll go to the vote. Now that the debate is over, we're going to vote with the Basque populars, the Basque Socialists, the EH and the Eubertarians signed semi-correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 73; supporters, 73; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u26	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Mortion, Joseph Ramon Becerra Carollo, introduced together by the parliamentary member of the Podemos, concerning the environmental control of Petronor. Discipline and final resolution. The proposer's turn. Mr. Becerra, it's your word to introduce and take over the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u27	Good morning, everyone. The reason for the introduction of this motion is that Petronor, Petronor's refinery, is not working well, and it is working worse since the coke plant, which was the largest industrial project in the history of Euskadi, was launched in 2013, with an investment of 1 billion euros. Since then, there have been multiple emergency stops, unscheduled stops and breakdowns, which have led to an environmental condition and discomfort to the neighborhood, even to the health of the neighborhood, which it had not had in previous years. Look, this is the difference between a normal Petronor operation (it's the photo below) and an operation like the one you've been having on many occasions in recent months and in recent years. [[Shows photos]] This is a photo taken last July, from a distance of ten or fifteen kilometers, where you really see what Petronor's effect is when it's not working well. And, as I say, it's not working well on many occasions. What would be, what should be the Government's mission in this case? Firstly, to know the causes, what is happening, to know why it is happening; secondly, to monitor that the technical defects that exist are corrected and that on many occasions they are repetitive problems, and thirdly to assess whether this abnormal operating regime adversely affects both air quality and the health of people living in the environment. Hence my questions and questions fifteen days ago, on the one hand to the Department of Economic Development with regard to industrial safety; on the other hand, to the Department of the Environment with regard to integrated environmental authorization and air quality, and to the Department of Health with regard to the exposure of the population to the chemicals emitted by Petronor. I have to say that it has been possible to reach a compromise agreement with some of the groups in this House because the groups have actually understood that the situation is not normal. And yet I do not feel that the Government would have understood the same message fifteen days ago. On the one hand, Councilwoman Tapia came to say that Petronor's file is clean; without a single stain, she came to say (seeing these soot clouds I would say something, something dirty if it is). Councilman Arriola said that the legal limits are met, but he did not say that a number of controls have been eliminated over the last few years, which make us know less about Petronor's activity. And Councilman Darpón said the Department of Health is fulfilling its obligations. Counselor Darpón also said something that somehow bothered me, and it was that he spoke of parliamentaryism "something cheap" when I took out the cancer data in the region, considering that, if for something I characterize myself, it is not to say a single statement without bringing evidence or a data that corroborates it. And it is not up to me to say whether cancer is greater or less because of Petronor's activity, but it is true that you said that prostate cancer is due to aging, and I tell you that in the Left Margin aging is the same in all municipalities, and even there are municipalities like Sestao or Barakaldo that have higher rates of aging than those in the municipalities surrounding Petronor, and do not have 15% more prostate cancer. But I'm not going to get in there, because that's not what worried me the most about what you said. You said one thing... "We have to think that the air quality in the Gorbea is always going to be better, and that we are not going back to the shepherding," you said, and that does worry me. I am concerned that a person responsible for public health in this country, the most responsible, may say so. Because if the Economic Development Advisor had said so, then I would have understood that the Economic Development Advisor's concern is that we should not go back to herding; but her concern is to protect people's health. And, of course, if anything becomes clear with this motion, it is that Petronor's operation is not normal and not usual. Therefore, the usual controls that are developed, developed by the Department of the Environment, or the compliance with the legal limits that are set for the usual operation, are not the ones that we have to apply here. We have to put much more mime, because Petronor is not working well, as I said, and if the choice between Petronor's taxes or people's health, as I have heard, or protecting the environment or protecting industry, we are wrong to debate. Because they're not exclusive. And I'm going to read a paragraph in a speech, where it was said that "Industrial competitiveness and environmental sustainability are not antagonistic concepts, they go together. Environmental responsibility is a lever of transformation and competitiveness, as a tool to win the future and be an environmental and socially responsible industry." This was said by Petronor's president on May 19, 2016. He was the one who said you can't dissociate one question from the other. We must therefore think that if we want to protect Petronor, if we want to protect Petronor's activity, the last thing we have to do is reduce the environmental controls we are applying to him. And it must be said here that the refining sector in Europe is experiencing a worrying situation. More than 50 refineries have been closed around the world, and 30 of them have been closed in Europe. Europe does not have oil, it hardly has oil, and it has to bring oil from other parts of the world, and it has to be borne in mind that every oil tanker we bring takes advantage of only three quarters; the other has no value. In other words, Europe is at a competitive disadvantage with respect to refineries in the rest of the world, and it is expected that by 2040 30% of the remaining refineries in Europe will be closed. And that, that directly challenges us about Petronor's future. In the years from 2012 to 2014 Petronor lost 200 million euros (200 million euros), and in the last two years it has won 200 million euros as well, 200 each year. But it's a circumstantial advantage. It has taken advantage of the decline in oil prices and has taken advantage of the increase in domestic demand. But Petronor is no more competitive today than he was in 2014. Their exports have fallen by 6% in the last year. That means that when domestic demand decreases or oil prices rise, Petronor will suffer again. And what are we going to do then? Are we going to further reduce environmental controls? Let us be aware that Asian refineries are put in a desert, and Russian refineries are put in the taiga, where there is no one. But Petronor's refinery is an urban refinery, which is set up among people, and environmental controls cannot be reduced to ensure its competitiveness. International experts say that the competitiveness of refineries goes in five lines, of which two are, one, reducing their CO emissions 2 , their emissions associated with climate change, because, if not, they will have to go buy emission allowances on the free market, and that will introduce uncertainty that will undermine their competitiveness; and, two, improve their energy efficiency, be more efficient in the use of energy. Well, all this is associated with environmental sustainability. If we want Petronor to be competitive, what we can't do is reduce control over the refinery. We need to look for a refinery that is more sustainable and more efficient. And for that it is necessary to increase control. I therefore have to say, in conclusion, that this alleged dichotomy between environment and industry does not exist. It doesn't exist. And I will end with an appointment that I mentioned to Mr Arriola the other day, from the European Court of Human Rights, who said that, under the European Convention on Human Rights, "European citizenship has the right to enjoy a private and family life in its home without seriously endangering its health", and that "public authorities must take reasonable and appropriate measures to protect this right". Well, we're in Europe, we're in Europe. Muskiz, and Abanto and Zierbena are also Europe. The Left Margin is also Europe. And to these people this government owes a commitment, a commitment to control Petronor's activity, so that it does not have the damage it is having in recent years. That is why I am glad that we have come to a compromise motion where it is acknowledged that Petronor is actually not working well, and that what needs to be done with Petronor is to control it better, so that the future is more sustainable and more efficient, which is basically what we are looking for. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u28	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Passing the crews who were running the corrections, representing the Basque Potion Group. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mr Becerra, I have looked at the first sentence of the justification for your motion, and it says: "All industrial activities are likely to have an impact on your environment". And we could say that all human beings are susceptible to developing anthropogenic activities that can have an impact on our environment. We can say it. And besides, if we look at this summer, we have several and diverse examples. It is clear, Mr Becerra, that these maximalist statements do not bring us much, beyond expanding a grey cloud over any activity, in this case industrial activity, and, as I say, putting industrial activity at the point of view of suspicion, always. Because you've talked about industry in generics, and you've put suspicion into all industrial activity. I believe that there is an implicit, inter-institutional, social and cultural consensus on the coexistence between industry and respect for the environment and people's health. This coexistence is possible, and it is also desirable. You say it's not possible. He said no; he dissociated the environment and industry. He dissociated it. This has to be possible, we have to make it possible, because it is necessary. And it's just that the industry is also interested in this, and that's for me to know, and I guess that's for you to know. I don't think by system the industry wants to pollute, it wants to affect the environment. On the contrary, I think the industry is working, and a lot. And we have made much progress by not adversely affecting the environment. Moreover, as I say to you, this objective is shared, that of avoiding, that of reducing and, to the extent possible, eliminating any pollution from industrial activities, in accordance with the principle that the polluter pays, and the principle of pollution prevention, which we talk very little about pollution prevention. And for all this, what do we have? We have some important tools. We have legislation derived from European legislation, which is one of the most restrictive..., no, the most restrictive in the world, and its compliance is what guarantees us the protection of the environment and the health of citizens. I am surprised when, in a justification of a folio, in the second paragraph we already carry the subject to the effects it has on the health of citizens, the risks to the health of citizens. And that shows me that there are no sound technical arguments to argue the motion, because it is not so in all cases, and already in the second paragraph we derive this in, oh!, the health of the citizens, in putting the alert, without justification. I think calling citizens' health is a very important call, and that, either it is very justified, or it only serves to alarm, and in some cases for free. And I don't think that's up to us. And, if I focused on the motion you submitted, I would talk about the stop plan and the unscheduled stops. I have no idea about this, and I have tried to inform people that you are an expert, and they actually tell me that you posed as a risk that there are so many stops. And I can tell you, as far as I get, that all those stops are those that are scheduled or those that are already programmed in the inspection plan, within what constitutes preventive maintenance. Rigorous plans, which are constantly applied throughout the year in all units, and I will refer to Petronor's units. If in these inspections a wear or possible failure is detected in the future, the stop for the change of the element or repair is proposed. This stop is carried out under the usual unit stop procedure. These stops that are not part of the inspection plans are included under the heading "unscheduled". A technician tells me, and I've believed him, because he knows a lot more than I do. You'll have some other arguments, I don't know. In 2015 – I put myself on Petronor's page, and I have seen Petronor report on his stops – revised the integrated environmental authorization, regulated emission limits in start-up and stop-up periods, and controlled the limits in those periods. In 2015, Petronor partially halted the Muskiz refinery in January and invested 42 million euros in its revision. At this stop, which is done every five years, the towers, containers, furnaces, safety valves, machines, instrumentation, electrical substations, etc. are reviewed. It's scheduled every five years. EUR 42 million was invested in its revision. As for compliance with air quality control regulations, which you also referred to at some of the points in your motion, Petronor has four air quality cabins in the environment, and the parameters that are scheduled to be continuously controlled are controlled, so that is what marks the integrated environmental authorization. And it also has a large number of hours of mobile cabins that are positioned to measure almost all the parameters for which technology is available. That's what Petronor has. I do not know why you say that these controls have been reduced, because it is the four fixed ones, which are the ones that are in the integrated environmental authorization, plus all the mobile cabins that are applied for hours in Petronor's environment. And then you were also talking to us about the motion for real-time information, the values of the parameters that are measured by the fixed booths. These parameters pass through the environmental technicians, who validate them, and then they are published. Or do you want to publish that data without being validated by the technicians? You don't trust environmental technicians? Or do you trust environmental technicians? Failure to do so (this validation) could cause unnecessary alarms. As for cabin values and people's health, there is a Basque network of air quality cabins, and the worst air quality values are not precisely in the cabins in Petronor's environment. You know which cabins of the cab network give the highest levels of pollution: they are not those of Petronor's environment. They're not Petronor's surroundings. Therefore, we cannot speak of the most serious pollution in the whole of Euskadi. There are other points that have worse data. So, the average air quality we have in Euskadi... Petronor doesn't exceed that average. I think we find ourselves, we move around Petronor, in an air quality control network that is high in number of control parameters and has the best available technologies, compared to the rest of the autonomous communities and the control systems they have. It is the best, the one that exists here in the autonomous community, and the most complete technology, the one that exists here. Therefore, Mr Becerra, I do not understand some of the statements you make. Today Petronor has stopped the boiler on plant 3, and has also reported it on his page. He reported on the 20th that today, Thursday, 23rd, he was stopping, because he is going to proceed with the commissioning of the boiler of plant 3. In March 2017 Petronor ends the general stop, a stop in which 49 million euros have been invested, of which 23 have been dedicated to the specific maintenance of the stop itself and 26 million to investments in technological innovation. And Petronor tells on his page everything that has incorporated new in 2017. Mr. Becerra, you say you need to incorporate... It was incorporated six months ago, in March 2017. I think it's also transparent Petronor, it seems to me, in communications, in what hangs on your website. But it also has the inter-institutional table, and it also has the public advisory panel, where the social movements of the environment can be incorporated to discuss issues that worry them or have questions, and Petronor is informing them. Therefore, I think it is very important that we do inspection and control; implement legislation and do inspection and control. And that is why we have tabled an amendment with two points: compliance with the legislation, because we have the most demanding, and if we comply with the legislation we have, which is the most demanding, we will have a very powerful tool, and, second, inspection and control...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u30	Finish up, Mrs. Octave.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u31	Yeah, I'm done right now. Thank you. And for that we have another tool in the autonomous community, which are inspection and control plans. We have had two plans, the second plan ends in 2018, and what we have asked is for the third inspection and control plan to be drawn up. And if we do that properly, surely the Health Department will not have any work, just validate what is being done, if we comply with the law, and if we do the inspection and control work well. I therefore believe, Mr Becerra, that what we have to work on is for the law to be enforced and for inspection and control to be carried out. I don't think Petronor or any industry wants to contaminate or get sick. I don't think so, I can't believe it...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u32	Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, please finish up...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u33	We are in the 21st century, and that is not possible.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u34	Thank you. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u35	Good morning, everyone. Before we begin, I'll ask you to settle our position, and I'll forget about it later, and you'll see if we can vote for that half-way correction that you've reached, because we agree with so many things, but we don't agree with other things, so I'd ask you to vote on points. What we think has happened to this motive is that it is a motive proposed after a great exercise-with the original Motius that we were perfectly satisfied. It seemed to us that two or three small details were missing, but we made a few more addition details. But then, when negotiations have come with the different parties in the government, things have been worse than they were in the original, so we'll give him a critic as a whole, and we'll forget about certain things. I am a little surprised at the intervention of López de Ocare; I am astonished that the effect of "doctor Jekyll y míster Hyde" seems to me to occur to you, Mrs. Ocariz. When you come here to talk about the infected soil or to talk about the quality of the water, to examine the themes you follow and proclaim here, you are a critic of the government's work, and today you have done quite the contrary to the defence of Petronor and the defence of government to Petronor. I'll tell you that the government has the same or the same attitude towards the things you defend with Petronor. In this case, there is still more, because we can see how years have been, as Mr. Becerra has described, very well, both today and in the previous simple control, the controls have been diminished, diminished, or wanting for years. I, going a little closer to the details, would like to say that we want to put some accounts here on the table, and I think we should be able to explain them. We used to say that the parliamentary to add to us was forcing fun to put value on things that don't have a limit or only have a year's reference values for polluters, to put reference values on them. And it seems important to us, because there are so many subjects here, such as are vapoural organic compounds, or aristocrats, or voleuriles, and the law does not lay their value on them, or in the case of the venton, for example, only the annual rates, and not the daily value of reference. And it seems to me, too, that this is something that must come from the work and examination of the Medical Department. And we do not say: 2015. the editor of the Medical Department said that the valavación de riesgos would be made, because it was necessary to see what was going on around the petromics, and it was said that in this case it was to apply some reference values to it, or with so many subjects that were out of the concrete. Horren inguruko berririk ez dugu izan. Osasuneko salilburuak aurreko kontrol-plenoan esan zuen beraiek egin behar dutena egiten dutela. Eta kuriosoa izan zen, zeren eta esaten zen: "From the risk assessment by exposure to volatile organic compounds and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and metals for chronic effects, it is concluded that the impact is disposable for non-cancer effects". But if we turn the sentence around, what we're saying is that the effects on cancer are not disposable. But more was said, more was said. He said that, in the case of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and metals, the available data have not been considered sufficient to carry out an adequate characterisation of the exposure. Klaro, if you come in the middle and say that you must continue with what is being done, it seems to us that this is not enough, that is not enough. And the reference value in 2015, as the representative of the Medical Department said, seems to us at least very strange, isn't it? Then another question is an important hrnon-histinx. Where we're getting the data from which Petronor pours out the themes, and how that network is, isn't it? Even in the first check room, the chief physician Arriola said... 'Well, he maintained how things were, and we say there are terrible privations.' Now it's true that in the middle of the media the government wants to force this network, and we agree, we agree. It is true, as Mr. Becerra has said, that the message given to him is not entirely compatible with the message. And I'd like to explain why and where things can go, wouldn't I? And this is important to me, maybe I won't be able to explain other things. [[Shows a photo]] This is Petror, I know from what you see. This is Petror. And these are the four places to measure the quality of the air, right? Here's the neighbor of San Julián, from Muskiz, here's the neighbor of Las Carreras, and here he is from Abanto. Okay? Klaro, calculating the vaporous organic compounds to begin with... Well, let me tell you something first. The cabins in San Julián and Las Carraris belong to Petronor, and only Petronor has the key to these cabins, as was said before. And it happens that if we want to follow them, for instance, these steaming organic compounds, these alone are measured in the nests of San Julián and Las Carras, that is, in those places where Petronor has the key. In the nests with direct control of the department, Muskname and Abanton, there is no evaporation of organic compounds. Besides this, it is clear to-day, and as the World's Medical Organization says, that the most disturbing infection is that of PM 2,5 particles. Well, at PM 2,5 particles are not measured here or here, neither here nor here. They're not measured anywhere. And there's a terrible lack of it. Besides this, not only what is not measured or what is not only measured, but where they are to be made, besides which the caviares do not work at all in the ethrarch and non-pointing manner. [[Shows graphs]] These are the facts of the day before yesterday. The day before yesterday in the San Julián cabin from 11 p.m. until 6 p.m., steaming organic compounds, nothing. It was not generally measured. This week. If we talked about it every week, I'd bring an example every week, 'cause they fall every week. But if we go to the Las Careras cabin on Tuesday, the steaming organic compounds were not measured from 12 to 7 p.m. Nice to meet you. Same timetable. That is to say, from 12 to 7 p.m. this week until 7 p.m. Because the nests that are under your control don't measure, and those under Petronor's control have cracked it. And this happens over and over again, so necessity is a terrible thing. And, well, since I've spent my time, I think it's important to say something else, and it's strange to me that when they take measures to ensure people's health, or when they try to take it, what a fobia you say to the people's participation in it. The original proposal at table, to continue Petror at table, proposed that we work with the institutions. In 2013 he was tested, and from 2013 he has met here once, in the year 2014, in February. But now, when you want to reactivate it, the original proposition was to say, "and the operators put it on that table." In the end they are all agents, who warn us of these things. But there has been no way, and you do not allow the agents, the inhabitants of the land, to be troubled, to be present with those who follow the matter. And this appears to me to be, on the side of the participation, to be the most terrible privation, and at least to signify the discord. And then we'll talk more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u36	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u37	Thank you, President, and good morning again. Mr. Otero, I don't know if..., in the end you make everything I prepare in the end you can't almost use it, because I have to take the time to try to answer it. To start with the end, because you always talk about the topic of phobia to participation, as if you were the adalid of asking for opinion – always and when you are interested, and as long as the result is what you think – because it is not true. I just don't know if you're mixing things up out of ignorance or intent! It is that one thing is the inter-institutional table, in which the Basque Government participates with the three departments involved (health, environment and economic development), together with the municipalities concerned or in which Petronor's activity may affect, which are the municipalities that you have appointed, and another thing is the monitoring table, which is municipal competence, in which the municipalities involved, the neighbours and the organizations that are dedicated to the environment participate. Of course you're counting on the neighbors! Of course we attach importance to participation! But it's just that you're mixing two things. You want the neighbours and the environmental groups to be at the inter-institutional table. It's just that then it's no longer an interinstitutional table, it's something else! So, let's let the municipal competition do what it has to do, which is to continue working with the neighbors, with the municipalities..., ask their councillors what happens to the council table and with the environmental groups, and let the government work with the municipalities. So let us not mix the two areas, because it is not the same. And I say with all due respect, Mr Otero, that I no longer know whether you are doing so out of ignorance or by trying to entangle yourself in this matter. These are two different areas and two different participations. So nothing phobia: respect for municipal competition. And you say, on the other hand... Well, he says a lot of things. You will explain to me what points you want to vote in favour, because after your speech I do not know what you agree with. You question everything, you charge the company (verily), you charge against the Basque Government and the three departments, and you intend to place restrictions on components outside the scope of the regulations. And you know perfectly well that what you are talking about benzene, by setting an example to it, cannot do so outside the scope of European legislation. Because why in Petronor, yes, and in an oil company in Glasgow, no? Why not Petronor and a company in Murcia? Why? You know that these issues are very serious, and that you have to stick to what the law says. Another thing is that you work to change the law, which will seem very good to me, but with the law that we have in hand today you cannot put in components or limits that today are not rated, Mr Otero. So don't say we don't want to do it. And you say, "Casually, Petronor's cabins say some things and the Basque government's cabins say another." And you know as well as I do – and I come here without teaching any pictures because we all know Petronor – that Petronor's measurement stations, whoever they are, are connected to the Basque Government's air quality network. Doesn't mean the Basque government doesn't know what's going on in Petronor's dependent cabins! But do you think that the Basque government – I don't care what the Andalusian or Navarra's – would allow a company to do what you veiledly say it does, giving it the same? What do they give it the same limits that can affect health? No, Mr. Otero, it's just that you say things that aren't true, and you always talk about them. A word has been missing that you will surely use in your replica, which you have not used now, but I will already beat you in your replica, because here we are all getting to know each other. The Department of Environment, Territorial Planning and Housing, which is Mr Arriola's, is committed to guaranteeing the right of citizens to enjoy a healthy and healthy environment. I suppose in this you will have no doubt! In addition, we believe that sustainable development is possible in Euskadi seeking a balance that we always talk about, which is between economic growth and the preservation of our natural heritage. And with so much evaluation, so much stumbling, so much mistrusting everything, so much looking at the law when we are interested, in the paragraph that interests us, you propose things that are not possible. Bring solutions! Don't say the problem is that we don't let the citizens participate! What do you want us to do? There is control and transparency, because it's all hung up, and we can see it you, me, the counselor and the citizen that you say we don't let in. There is transparency on the page of the Basque Government in everything that has to do with air quality. When we propose in the amendment – that Mr Becerra proposed to us a slightly more striking wording – that the issue of air quality be improved, if you go to history, is that it has been greatly improved, eh!, all that has to do with air quality. Go back to history, it's a lot better! And then he told us that "it is that the amendment you are proposing does not change anything". I will tell you that it is one of the few amendments in which the verb "we will continue to do", or "we will continue to improve" – which you do not like and I can understand – because it says, point 1, review the authorisation, minimise the impact, extend the measures; point 2, improve the configuration and optimize the legal framework; point 3, strengthen and collaborate to reduce; point 4, strengthen the evaluation and maintain; and point 5, which is the only one talking about the continuation of the exchange, is because you will understand that there is an exchange of information between Petronor and the Basque Government in the three departments involved; point 6 was the one proposed by Mrs López de Ocariz, which was a plan that the Basque Government of course is going to make, because the previous one is now over, and point 7 was to resume and activate that interinstitutional table which I spoke to you when you wanted to confuse it with the follow-up table. Therefore, do not say that the amendment does not say anything, do not say that nothing is intended to change. That is that the effects of a company like Petronor worry EH Bildu and everyone else, and citizens. But you can't come here with social alarms with these kinds of issues, because Petronor is the first interested in air pollution ratios, in which particles, in which what comes out of the torches, all that, comes out in compliance with the law. But what do you think?, what about what Mrs López de Ocariz proposed, from the principle that the polluter pays, Petronor is exempt, or what? But neither Petronor nor anyone! You can't come here making great phrases, always against the same kind of companies! You can't want to have an ad hoc law for certain companies in Euskadi, but it doesn't affect the company in Navarre, or La Rioja, or Burgos! We cannot be here all day, Mr Otero, looking at European legislation when we are interested, and then pretending to skip it when we don't like the company in charge! And you can't say that there are booths, which are Petronor's, that because they are Petronor's you have to be suspicious of them and that those of the Basque government say other things, when you know perfectly well that they are connected and that the data is published on the web. And if you don't know, I'll pass you the link. Because today, with everything there is in matters of transparency, with citizen demand, with legal obligations and with legal responsibilities, no one can play that you say happens in Euskadi. But neither Petronor nor anyone! And if not, bring real data, not so many photos and not so many graphics. Because, like everything else, in the end it is not what appears on a paper; it is the eyes with which you look. And you have a level of mistrust and a level of burden against certain companies and against a Basque government that is meeting, with the law in hand, with all the requirements, which I do not think is a receipt. And if not, tell us what you want to demand from Petronor, but with the law: according to such an article, Petronor company is failing in this. Don't say that you think we have to control benzene, I don't know what and he doesn't know what, if it doesn't appear in European legislation. Look, Mr Otero, the worst of all is that with this issue, year after year, post-parliamentary legislature, the only thing that is intended is to create an alarm in a part of the citizenry, which are the three municipalities involved. That is why this follow-up table was created, because the mayors were the first to want the people to participate in those meetings, together with the environmental groups that EH Bildu always reminded us that they had to participate in dialogue, information and transparency in what had to do with the polluting particles. That's why. So, I think we have to come here, I don't know, finally, beyond graphics and photos (we're all very environmental and we all have color photos every day), so, already with a little criterion I don't know whether political, technical or which. But it's just that you don't think you're talking about real things. And then (term, Madam President), Mr Becerra, one thing. The same always happens to us when we come to agreements. Firstly, I do not think there is a lack of collaboration between the Department of the Environment and the Department of Economic Development, let alone in this area. I think they collaborate and go hand in hand, and in this case joined the Department of Health. And, on the other hand, I am very pleased that you have signed the amendment. I believe that the effort we have all done; you are probably one of those who have made the effort, since you were the proposing group. But I honestly do not think that the Socialist Group has of course signed the amendment because we are acknowledging that Petronor was doing it wrong, eh! Of course, that's why we didn't sign it. We have signed the amendment, first of all, because we believe it has to be a debate in which most political groups are involved, because the government is involved, is working, and is interested in having Petronor and all Basque companies operating in accordance with the law. But, of course, if you have understood that we have signed an agreement because we are accusing Petronor of doing it wrong, I don't think you should have signed it, honestly. Finally, I would like to apologize to the groups, because the amendment comes only in Spanish, because you know that there has been a rush to sign, but the services of the House are in charge of translating it. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u38	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians. Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u39	Yes, ma'am. Presidents, chiefs, members of the legislature, good noon to all. Mr Becerra (as Mr Uria, "Compañero Becerra" would say), after his multiple intervention on the 17th, it was obvious that we were going to meet with this motion, more justifiable, I think, of the work that was taken to prepare his ubiquitous presence in the plenary than because it is understood necessary after having heard three councillors explain that, even when it comes to various matters, in all of them they understood that it was basically a question of applying regulations, which in their fields apply public administration techniques and techniques, and they comply with their own regulations and in general are European regulations transposed into their own legislation. The councillors questioned or questioned explained to us that they do not hesitate to do good by their technicians, which you ratified. Nor do they doubt the legislation they apply, which I also hope you will ratify. What I'm going to tell you they didn't say, I'm saying this: does anyone think that some councillor of the Basque Government is capable of forcing the oblivion of some measurement, of obviating some control, of allowing some kind of incorrect function in the company and thus allowing it to contaminate the area, putting its inhabitants at risk? If anyone thinks that, because this is not the forum in which we have to debate, it is another. Otherwise, I understand that you responded sufficiently last day. Now, put in flour, on the one hand, I will reiterate that if we stick to what we discussed with Mrs Tapia and the request to the department to which the motion is addressed, insofar as we are referring to unscheduled stops, unforeseeable incidents, it is something outside the industrial safety regulations, which only regulates periodic inspections that force Petronor to make those scheduled stops. The department then exhausts its supervisory powers with these stops, and its personal and material means must be directed exclusively at complying with this industrial safety regulations. To collaborate with Petronor to drastically reduce the unscheduled, which is what he puts in his proposal, would be to devote public resources to functions that do not belong to him, neglecting the priority objective. To demand the maintenance of the intensity of inspections and to strengthen the relationship with the company is what seems logical, considering that it is a question of complying with the regulations, and to ask for maximum cooperation to try among all to alleviate unscheduled stops. And by the way, today's file is clean. For information, I will tell you that since 2014 Petronor has a specific program to reduce unscheduled stops and unit breakdowns as much as possible, and it seems that it is succeeding in reducing something. Not everything we'd like, but they're already reducing something. And already, on the other hand, and with regard to the part that most concerns the citizenry as a result of a contaminating action, which is nothing other than health, in Petronor's case, while the Basque Administration is responsible, a risk assessment for the health of the population has been carried out, derived from both acute and chronic exposure to pollutants present in the air, following, by the way, the methodology of the EPA, of the American Environment Agency. This risk assessment uses a method that combines information on the toxicity of pollutants and the routes of exposure by which they reach people, so that the risk or likelihood of adverse effects in those who are exposed is ultimately estimated. In this method, by the way, the most unfavourable scenarios are used, and very low risk excesses are taken as a reference, below regulatory limits, in order to thus detect problems and make decisions in due course. Volatile organic compounds in air, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and heavy metals associated with particulate matter have been evaluated at this time. And the risk assessment has shown that it is not foreseeable to find effects of chronic inhaled exposure to volatiles and metals. A certain effect is observed by applying the benzene model, in which, in any case, air quality levels are below the levels of intake required by European Community legislation, and only at one of the sampling points and the risk values taken as a reference. That's why he's being specifically watched. Being these good results and with a contrasting technique, you have enough information. Because if you go to the public health report of 2016 you will see peaks like that of benzene here, peaks of everything in almost all seasons; even – I will contradict for a moment the advisors who said the other day that Gorbea is clean – it gives peaks in Valderejo and in Urkiola, for ozone, but it does, in the public health report of 2016. As I told you, these data are good, with contrasting technique, and already involve a continuous assessment of health risks. We therefore ask that they be maintained and, if so, strengthened, always on the same path as at present, without the need for a new and innovative specific protocol. And that is why we call for a powerful interconnection between Health and the Environment, because environmental data are the ones that are going to give the reference for the study of health probabilities. And to these proposals we have added in the transactional other issues, which I do not repeat because they have already been told. Having said that, technically explained the reasons why it should not be alarmed, I cannot conclude without thinking that what happened in the full past, Mr Becerra, by asking so many, is that it was able to glimpse a certain confusion in everything said, a dispersion of ideas that generate, to nothing that nobody dissects what was said, a confusion about the particular pretensions. Although we already know that what he made was a complaint of a gross nature, but the thick, which in principle, as seen, seems concrete, as soon as you increase the magnifying glass and dissect it, it is made up of elements that turn out to be abstract or inconcrete. For example, you asked Mr. Arriola and explained to him that he was concerned about everything – I quote textually – "... the sensors that worry me the most, which are those of substances that are BTX (bencene, xylene, toluene)". Then, Mr. Darpón came, forgot about BTX, and after quoting us, almost all of the cancers that exist in the market focused on cadmium, chromium and arsenic. By the way, having examined the ATSDR reports, which is the Agency for Toxic Substances and Registration of Diseases of the United States, I can make it clear to you that, if you said that cadmium is prostate-proven carcinogen, that agency quotes it for lung and kidney, and if you cited arsenic as esophageal and larynx-proven carcinogen, ATSDR quotes it for lung, although in no case does the ATSDR speak of proven carcinogens. It doesn't take us much, it doesn't take us much, but the world of science doesn't end up agreeing on the pathologies that could cause different products, although, it's also very true, they never speak very well about these products. I say this exclusively because, as this stand should be used to expose, or it should be used to expose, on an opinion or ideological level, any position, when it comes to pouring out technical information, and more when it is of a character which, by its content, triggers the alarm, it must do so in the most objective way possible and with contrasted information; otherwise, we do little favor. As you said... you taught a map, and you said, "One map gives more arsenic in one place than another." And, after asserting that arsenic contrastingly produces a specific pathology, summarize that there is a greater probability of having this pathology in space with more concentration. Of course! But it's a manipulated logic, Mr. Becerra. It is a manipulated logic, because at no time did he tell us what the scientifically contrasted concentration threshold that can produce such pathology, nor the regulatory limits of arsenic, nor the absolute concentrations of arsenic on his map, nor the relative percentage of cancers in different places, nor other organic, inorganic or genetic agents that cause that cancer. He just told us that arsenic is bad, and we already knew that. Even in the movies! If I add to all this that to nothing that one gets on the internet to see the variables of the different stations that there are by Euskadi, it finds that in the station of San Julián de Muskiz are offered the measurements of benzene, toluene and xylene, for, man, it is seen that that that which was so much concerned him, then it should worry him less. By the way, I'm not much given to this, but, as it usually starts to happen, I pulled out of any day, last week, the twenty-four hours: benzene, toluene and xylene. [[Show some papers]] It can be removed immediately, gives half a hour of what has occurred in the discharges. In short, I understand, we understand in our group that the Government is complying with the specific regulations of the different areas to which you referred, which is not only reasonable, but also the obvious thing that must be done by an administration. And all this obviousness would not have been necessary to air it if it had not previously been spilled, I don't know, semantic pollution. In matters of this kind we have to raise the tone to a certain extent, which is what we have done, especially when our health depends on a number of things being handled well. Push. Force, yes, that is what this transaction is doing, which I also thank you, like Mrs Red, thank you for signing it in the end, knowing that things are doing well, but if they can be improved, do it. But never the exaggeration, which on the one hand questions the making of techniques and techniques of the Administration, and on the other because the exaggeration, derived from a marsam of data spilled without sufficient contrast and glimpsed with alarmist logics, leads to unnecessary uncertainties that we should avoid. Look, Pio Baroja has already said it: "The truth cannot be exaggerated, in truth there cannot be nuances, but in the semi-truth many". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u40	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Passing on the answers, Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u41	The truth is that the result of this motion is surprising, because two of the groups that sign the transaction say it was not necessary, and a group that does not sign it coincides with the diagnosis made in the motion. If you believed, Mr. Telleria and Mrs. López de Ocariz, that everything was fine, why sign a motion that talks about strengthening, improving, reviewing, increasing...? Don't sign it, as simple as that! And, of course, I don't know Petronor's intentions, Mrs López de Ocariz. I tried to get her to say it here at this headquarters, and they refused to show up. I would have liked you to come. That's why I had to ask the counselors, because, among other things, Mrs. Tapia said she didn't know what was going on in Petronor. And this motion says that at Petronor things are not working out well. The only issue I'm going to amend to Mrs. Red is that of "creating alarm." The alarm does not create it by the people, nor do we create it by the parliamentarians. The alarm is created by the twenty-metre flares that are now in Petronor every fifteen days. That's the alarm. That's why we're talking about this here. If Petronor was working well, surely I wouldn't have filed any motions, I wouldn't have called Mr. Arriola. What for? If it works well, if the controls are carried out... But that's not happening. And this motion reflects that, that Petronor is not working well. There's nothing wrong with recognizing it. There's nothing wrong with recognizing it by the company. I'm not going to tell you what the reasons, the reasons, Petronor's intentions are so that it doesn't work well. I understand they don't want to either. I could give you many technical explanations, Mrs López de Ocariz, because I do understand some refineries, but I have to tell you that the European trends today are that, to be more efficient, refineries will make a stop every four or five years. Well, Petronor's made only 11 stops this year. With this operating regime it is not only that it contaminates more, it is that it is not efficient, it is that it is not competitive Petronor. Working like this, it is not competitive, and it is the only thing I have tried with today's speech, which logically cannot be the same as the speech of an inquiry, Mr. Telleria, of course! In the interpellations and in the questions we are more inquisitive, and sometimes we draw data, and also Mr Darpón told me a number of things, and I understand it within parliamentary sportsmanship, logically. But in today's motion, what I was coming to say is that as long as Petronor continues to work badly, it not only leads to a greater risk to people's health, but is not competitive, and sooner or later there will be problems. And of course the air quality network isn't working as well as it should. It's not working well, and that's why one of the things we've asked for is to facilitate results in real time. Mr Otero has already said: it is that when the peak starts to rise we hide the data, to make a manual validation. And I don't think that environmental technicians make changes to that validation; what we're asking is that people be provided with the data in real time, and if there's a mistake then they change it. Nobody's gonna say anything! What cannot be done is that six months later you try to enter the graphs of the air quality network data and the data are not there. Six months later, the data isn't there. Which means something's working wrong. And I am glad that this motion serves to improve, because the motion is aimed at making things better. I would have liked, Mr Otero, to have liked other things to be included, but I have tried to make it a priority for this House to say something about what I said, that Petronor is not working well and that we want it to work better, and that we want more environmental control. And I don't think that should be a reason to tear his clothes off. But in the minute I have left, I do want to refer to Petronor's competitiveness and to an issue that is topical. Look, you, Mrs López de Ocariz, your group, have promoted a brutal tax rebate that we are not going to know right now what influence you have, but in a few years we may well know. Petronor pays 700 million euros of taxes a year, you will possibly lower the taxes he pays, and, of course, it has coincided that you have justified that tax reduction in which the collection goes well. Well, the collection goes well to a large extent because companies like Petronor are having two very good years; possibly, when Petronor gets worse, the fiscal hole that you are going to create for us with the reform you have just made will be more than worrying. And I'd like that to be recorded here, because it's also related to this thing that we're talking about. Because Petronor is not only environment, it is not only health; it is also taxed. And in that too you're doing it wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u42	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Euscal Group Popula representative. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u43	Mr. Becerra, what was the purpose of the motion? Because I've lost myself. I believe that the object of the motion and its intervention had nothing to do with it. You've come here to shoot, which leads me to think you're using Petronor to do politics, municipal politics, right? Okay. I find it rather sad that some of the terms that you have put here to do municipal politics are used. And he was telling us why we signed the compromise amendment. I told you at first. We want the legislation to be complied with, which, as I have said, we have the most restrictive in the world, because our legislation is derived from European legislation, and it is the most restrictive. I don't know if that's worth it. He's not worth it anyway, I don't know. It's good for me. And, therefore, if a review of the authorisation has been made two years ago, I do not think it would be wrong for it to be re-examined. It doesn't look bad to me, so I'm going to support that point. And I will support, for example, that the inspection be strengthened... I have told you, implementation of the legislation and intensified inspection control. If the points that you have put in the motion I can support them perfectly, because in my two points I come to insist on that! Therefore, I fully agree with what you have signed. I told him before that for the People's Group the environmental approach to the industrial environment must be taken from pollution prevention policies, which they do not remember at all! You don't remember pollution prevention at all! They begin with the issue of this product or the other, which, in the end, seems to me very well those lessons, but I prefer them in another area. The full implementation of the legislation, and through proper inspection of industrial installations, and the full compliance with the corrective measures laid down in the authorization of the activity, is the important thing, and that is where we must focus all the work and effort. One of the tools, as I told you before, that we have as an autonomous community is the environmental inspection and control plan, and that is where we have, in the next plan, to reinforce those measures that we consider to be weak. And, I told you before, the limit values and the high number of control parameters are, by contrast, the most restrictive in the sector in all the autonomous communities, which are given here. That is not what the Basque Government says; that is what other reports have said that the Basque Government has not done. I therefore believe that the Basque Government, of course, must intensify inspection and control, be vigilant, that I do not think it is not, I think it is doing so... You ask for one more plus; it seems to me that if you can offer, well, but I think we have the best technologies of the moment by inspecting and controlling. Petronor, as I told you before, has updated its material, the improvement of energy efficiency in the installations...; made investments related to the cooling of chimneys, improvement of the reliability of equipment, replacement of heat exchangers and exchange of deposits with more durable materials, installation of new compressors, etc., etc. That was six months ago. So, I think he's also investing. Then you go to productivity. Hey, I don't know, the same way they want to lose money! I don't know. I don't know. But, as you say, they pay an average of 800 million euros to the Treasury, an average of 800 million euros a year. Therefore, Mr Becerra, I believe that we have not dispersed anything in the initiative; you have, because then you were dealing with tax reform. Well, look, we'll leave that for another day. You don't mind? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u44	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. EHGG rep. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u45	Yes, thank you. Esan berri denagatik, hasteagatik, of course, Mrs López de Ocariz, tells us that legislation is the most restrictive in the world. And I'm going to give you a single data, since Mrs. Red only asks me for data. Yes, Europe, PM 2.5 particles, average annual value not to be exceeded, 25 micrograms per cubic meter; U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 12 micrograms. 12 micrograms! It's a fact, it's a reality. It seems that you, and already within Europe, have not heard of Denmark, have not heard of Baden-Württemberg... You say, "We are the champions of the world," and that's it. And champions of the world! Something else, Mrs. Red. I see that you have a technique, which is that when we agree something, well, you come here in good shape, and when you see that there are things in which we disagree down here, you take out the sabre and, ras-ras, you hit everything. And you also have the boldness to ask me for the data, when you don't bring any data, and I exactly what I teach you, that you despise it and tell me "You teach photographs and such"... Sure, but I teach pictures of official data. Of course the air quality network teaches Petronor's data! And of course the absences are there! Or have you not seen the absences? That's data, and it's official data. And it's also official data that, you who defend Petronor so much, that I defend Petronor neither one nor the other (or defend it or the massacre)... What I'm saying is that everyone knows that outsourcing environmental costs brings benefits to companies; then, everything that can outsource it will outsource it. And that this government, like everyone else, is to control and to be increasingly demanding, of course. So, from there, talk about how good Petronor is or how bad Petronor is I don't know what it makes sense. I tell you that the key to the cabins, the only cabins that measure Petronor's volatile organic compounds, has Petronor. That's what I'm saying. And I say those booths fail, and I prove it to you with data and show it to you in a graph. But I wouldn't have painted the graphic! More data. In 2006 Petronor emitted 1,590 tons of volatile organic compounds; in 2015 (last available data) it emitted 1,766 tons of volatile organic compounds. It's broadcasting, and it's broadcasting more and more! The path is ascending, so the controls will have to be ascending as well. Moreover, with regard to what needs to be achieved through participation and non-participation. What we are saying is that what needs to be achieved is that there is a forum that is led by the Department of the Environment, that accommodates different departments of the Basque Government and the municipalities and has social participation of the groups concerned about what is happening in Petronor. And you accuse us of creating alarms. No way! That's the other way around! We have been bringing this issue here for years not because we want to create alarms, but because they have alerted us, they have alarmed us. And we are alarmed by neighbors, who are watching and living every day and suffering the consequences of what happens to Petronor. Inspections... Speaking of data transparency, the inspection that was carried out in 2014 is not public, the one that was carried out in 2015 talked about noise emission problems, and in 2016 about air problems as well. I mean, the few times Petronor has been inspected, it gives problems and breaches of integrated environmental authorization. But in 2016, that is checked, it is checked with official data, and it turns out that still in 2017 the counselor, in November, tells us that he is waiting for the results of what Petronor has done to correct the noise issue. Sure, year and a half later! A year and a half later there has been a lot of noise emission, there has been a lot of noise alarm. We're not the ones creating the alarm. Anyway, I'm going to leave it here, because I don't know how much it's worth entering into this dialogue between the deaf or the besugos, when what we've been contributing for years are default data, emission data, problem data, and you're committed to saying that everything is wonderful. We are going to vote in favour of points 2, 3, 4 and 6, in which I understand that there is a breakthrough and there is a compromise; we cannot agree on the part concerning health, and we cannot agree on the part concerning citizen participation either. And, of course, we will remain vigilant, we will continue to bring the data, and we will continue to try to transfer the alarm that is already generated to this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u46	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u47	Thank you, President. Look, Mr. Otero, I'm coming with the sabre nothing. It's just that it's my character, and I think you all know me here. So, I understand you don't like it, but that's who I am. And then you will understand that, if I have agreed with four groups and not with you, then I will not say in the same tone to Mr. Telleria that to you, because besides believing that I come with the sand you would think that I am impatient. (Barreak) I mean, 'cause I'd think about it, huh! I mean, if I were Mr. Telleria, I'd say, "This woman, then, has gone crazy." And it's not coming with the sabre, it's not the right thing to do. It is that it is about coming here and confronting politically, with concrete ideas, about what you say, that it is up to you to speak before me, and then about what I say. And you say – and it is also called a bit of parliamentary courtesy too – that when you agree, with the person who has put the signature in an amendment, then keep the polite dialogue in Parliament a little, which is something that I have criticized many times, that you sign and then you take out the sand; because you take it out much more than I do, even though my tone seems a little more vehemently. But it's just that at my age I don't think I'm gonna change it. I'll tell you, "you don't teach data"... I don't teach them or make them up, let alone manipulate them. I do not demand data from you because I bring them, but because when you bring them you defend them, compare them and explain them. And you're very given to come here with data, teach us some graphics and photos, but then it's not true, or it's not a whole truth, what you say. And that's what I came to tell you. So I don't teach them, but when someone brings them what I demand is that they at least have rigor, and that what they say is true. But one truth a hundred percent, not half truths. Then you say I defend Petronor. No, I'm not defending Petronor. In this case we are talking about Petronor and at other times we have talked about other things. It's not defending Petronor. On the one hand it is to defend legislation and its compliance, and on the other hand it is not to demagogue about a serious issue. That the serious issue is the social alarm. And you say they don't create social alarms. The social alarm – Mr Becerra, I will also tell you – is indeed not created in a free way, but is created with statements that make certain political leaders. Because you will share with me that it is not the same thing that Mr Lehendakari goes out somewhere and says something about Petronor, or that I say it, or that a citizen of the people say it. Because the repercussion and the importance given to the statement... obviously Mr. Urkullu's is much more important than mine. And so, when certain political leaders go to certain municipalities and say certain things, Mr Becerra, they create social alarm. And Mr. Otero tells me, "But we've talked to the neighbors." And us! But what do you think, that in those three municipalities there are only citizens of EH Bildu, or what? Look at the city hall! We also have councillors in the municipalities, and we have houses of the village, and we have companions who live in the municipality and with whom we also talk. Because, as you understand, I don't want my affiliates to suffer those things that you say happen in Petronor's environment. Therefore, we are all talking here, because in this it is not a dialogue of the deaf. There is a two-way collaboration between political parties and those citizens who come close, or have sympathy, or simply want to share themes when they are called to a meeting. And with this what do I want to tell you, Mr. Otero? That in these subjects that you like to talk about so much and in these great expressions I think you have to be very careful. And I say the same thing again: Do you believe that you are complying with the law, yes or no? With the law. Not with the law that you like, or that you would like it to exist in the legal system, no; with what there is, with the limits that European legislation places. Is it fulfilled, yes or no? Because that is our obligation as public representatives! That's our obligation. And then be ambitious, that's something else, Mr. Otero. But I can come with the sabre, it can be (I don't think so), and you come with the no before you sit down and negotiate. And you were very clear what position you wanted to stand on Petronor, very clear, and I think it has remained a little regular when you saw Mr Becerra signing the amendment. That's what I think happened. And Petronor's theme, and the issue of particles, and the issue of pollution, and air quality, and the health of citizens and all this, I think we care about everyone. We all care. Also to those neighbours you want to use in this debate to say that the parliamentary groups in this case of the Government, Mr Becerra and the People's Party do not want to participate and that they will not be heard. And I'll tell you again, it's a lie. I'll explain the same thing to you again. The Basque Government has a forum, which already exists and we ask that it be reactivated and re-launched, involving the municipalities involved, inter-institutional, and then there is a follow-up table where those neighbours are, there are the environmental movements, there is the town hall... And I will also tell you – which I have forgotten to tell you before – that this follow-up table has an agenda on which, depending on the subject in question, anyone can ask for the appearance of anyone who thinks they can contribute to the debate that is to be raised that day. So, participation yes, but you want to mix it all up. One thing is the institutions, and the other thing is that you, who are the adalid of participation, want to take away from the municipalities the competence that they have in this case, which is the monitoring table. Therefore, these are not great advocates of a company and great advocates of the people, because that is not true. And you have a lot of habit of speaking in general: "We are the ones who talk to the people" (I don't know which people), "and you are those of the oligopolies". Well, look, Mr. Otero, if you think I went out with the sand, I'm sorry. It's just that it's my character, and this is what there is, and I think that while you see me here, this is what's going to happen.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u48	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians. Mr. Tellería from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u49	Eskerrik asko, mahaiburu andrea. Very quickly, because the debate is already done, and I have not brought the sabre from home. So, no... Simply to clarify, to clarify whether we have questioned what the Government has been doing and asked it to change radically, or, on the other hand, we have told the Government that, well, that it is doing well, and that it is likely, if it can, to reinforce something. Apart from including the new inspection plan and apart from including the inter-institutional table to reactivate it, I'm going to read it, of Petronor's most important issues, which is the environment and its link to health, I'm going to read it... Although everyone has it, I will read it so that people understand: "The Basque Parliament urges the Department of Health to maintain and, if necessary, strengthen", and the other is "The Basque Parliament urges the departments of Health and Environment, Territorial Planning and Housing to continue to exchange information". This is what we approved today. It is to say to the Government "It is not doing it wrong, and, to the extent it can, it strengthens things." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u50	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. End of discussion, we'll vote together Podemos, Euskal Populars, Euzia Socialists, and Eukébertarians. It's a vote... Yeah? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, If I got it right, there's no problem voting on points, right? One, two, three, six together, and four, five, seven together, too? Okay. All right. So, what we're gonna vote is 1, 2, 3, 6 points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 72; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u51	So the points we've just given are unanimously accepted. Next, we vote four, five, seven points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 55; contraries, 17; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u52	So the points we voted for have been accepted. Five point in theme list: "Pull yourself together as a parlamentary band, and set up a press of communications about the right of the pensioners to form their low pensions. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. The wife of the Kotha, the representative of the EH Group, has the word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u53	Thank you very much. Congressmen, good morning to all. Social associations, equality, rights, and justice are the fundamental principles of a advanced society in the opinion of the Basque People. A advanced society is obliged to preserve and protect its members, and it is of the greatest importance to this end to have a powerful, coherent, well-balanced, and well-stocked protection system. And in this sense it is well known and manifest to be the wager of our party on the side of the shield system. And the pension system is obviously one of those clabe parts of that protection system. It is well known and evident what the position of our party is about the pension system: A system of pensions controlled by the state and a system of depressed Social Security. That's what we're doing now. Not only does the system of today guarantee dignity, but it does not guarantee the permanence of its character, and yet many experts indicate it. It is well known that in this legislature our wager is favorable to a system of lodgings, which permits both life and worthy pensions, and that we agree with the proclamations made by several pensioners, and that the least pensions of 1.080 euros are our aim. And in that way, we've made it clear that before late, we're going to have to take our full right to the economic management of Social Security without a constraint. All this is well known and evident, and we have had occasion to discuss before now, and we shall probably have occasion to discuss it again, but we are probably quite likely to agree, as we have said before, upon different points of view, that one of the principal foundations of the protection system is a pension system. Pents and pension systems are entirely connected with the conditions of life, and with the quality of life; and you will agree that we have the right to grow old by quality to all persons. The fact is that, according to all data, that doesn't depend on us today. According to the records, 29% of our retired people are poor. For the past few years, public pensions are targeted, and are in a planned fashion taking great attacks on public and economic powers. And in this sense it is plain, that having the principal jurisdiction in the hands of the state, we cannot proceed. Our bet is for a system that will guarantee worthy conditions of life, as has been said before. And together with that, we can't accept a pensioner not to live in dignified conditions. We can't look away from it and hide behind the towel. The anxiety of the situation obliges us to think of how we can improve the injurious consequences which this system imposes on us. Thus, while we are still working on the management of the whole system, by means of the means and tools we have at hand, we are obliged to take measures to enable every man to grow old by quality, and to secure our right to live under suitable conditions of life. In fact, data shows the rawness of the situation. There are about 192,000 in the community women and men who charge a salary less than the minimum wage in the profession. That's how the Titans do it, isn't it? It is true that when they say that they are received by higher pensions than in other communities in the state, the states are thus constituted, but when they are said to be other pensions, the state of men is concealed, as it were, in some way or other? And these experiences of life which people live with pensions below 700 euros are not visible. And more especially this crude state, which is directly produced by many women, is, in a sense, invisibised. And once again we must cover up the wounds left by the policy of the state, and by means of means of rentals which are paid to guarantee the incomes of the revenue, we are obliged to pay attention to the state of the Basque pensioners who have not enough resources. But the efforts, the facts show that there are dysfunctions in the system, and that in this sense the objects which were sought for by revenue are not yet fulfilled, or, at least, as we were willing to do, they have not all been fulfilled. The effort is of the size, but the ends are not of the same size yet. For of those pensioners who receive a pension less than the minimum wages of their profession, it is approximately 16,000 (only 16,000) who constitute the right to collect their incomes by rent, most of them are women (%%) Around 68). It's about 1760,000 people who don't get extras on low pensions. We think too much. There may be several reasons why so many people should remain in a poor condition and in a state of impenetrability, and in these months we shall have to consider the reasons for this situation, which are to be said in this sense, in the discussion of the income reforms of the revenue. But no doubt there may be a kind of knowledge among those reasons which may be involved. The right or ignorance of the conditions in which they complete this pension may also be there. And the Basque Country is supposed to be in need of this situation in order to form pensions and value the basic conditions of life before it is too late to increase the supply of tools in our hands. For, in truth, it would be paradoxical that the great drayparadox should be those tools which would form and value the low pensions, that they should be engaged to us, and then refuse to take advantage of them. I think you'll share that. Getting information or entering information is a right. This member has also received it, and we have already discussed it in this legislature. And we mentioned that this right to enter information gives all of us the knowledge and use of our rights, but above all that it is essential to those who live in the greatest degree of limitation and vulnerability. The new capacity enables us to approach them, the rights of information, and consequently the opportunity to improve our quality of life is excellent. And he is also able to arrange us as a citizen and give us a chance to ask questions for the authorities. And in this sense, I would like to remind you today of an account for the discussion that has passed. For our culture about the elements of protection is probably followed by the instruments we have in our hands, and in our collective imagination there are still some elements which are still very deeply rooted in the thought that there are some of them about to be protected, blessing, and preparations which are related to the poor and such things, and which have a great influence on them. Ignorance and shame are often mixed up in these matters, and even at the moment I spoke of it, I would like to repeat again that in these cases there is a cause effect. What makes us ignorant of right is not knowing that we have right not to demand; and when shame is given to ask, it is what happens when we do not want to share those miseries which are ours, that we do not demand, and are placed on a dangerous stage, because, in such cases, commitments may be firm, temptations may also arise to retire, and it is essential that we put guarantees about them. We'd say something like that passes with the pensioners and their rights. Many of those persons who have a low pension have a very concrete cult of protection, they have some very deeply rooted elements in their collective imaginations, and in some cases they have difficulty in getting information into it. and in this sense the limits of the execution of their rights are great, and the corruption of many increases. Thus, in order to penetrate into and carry out the right of building pensions, it is necessary that these pensioners should be allowed access to information, and in what manner they ought to exercise this right. And in this, a special effort in the way of dignity. And today's initiative has no other intention. In this smallness, while we continue to work for a proper system of pensioners, he seeks to penetrate into the way in which these low pensions are formed and worthy; and, in some measure, by means of the possibility of the entrance of information, he seeks to complete the power of those pensioners in the execution of their rights, but not even in the struggle and demand of their rights. In our initiative we asked for something very exact, a communication campaign, an income to guarantee pensioners' rights, which is a strong campaign that is necessary to get information about how the pensioners can arrange their low pensions. I'd say we've all shared this from the teams. And it is true, that it was agreed, that, after reform, we should set up a press of communications, a general campaign. And we have well seen, from the point of view proposed by the government teams, the common striving towards people who have low pensions, that they may be placed there. But we believe that it is a specialized state, that of the lower pensioners, of the culture of their protection, and of the peculiarities which may be found in the management of their preparations; and therefore we have agreed that these groups should produce a specific action in this general campaign. This specific action, addressed to these persons of low pensions, will insert the gender point, and in general will be done with specific and appropriate tools, which will ensure the information to arrive efficiently with pensioners, from the contributions made by the Podemos team together. And with the contributions of some and others, in their smallness, I'd say we've made a pretty deal that we're going to support all of us. I'm sorry I didn't sign to Monsieur Damboea, and I'm sorry I forgot to sign her too, but, well, we did, and though I didn't get my signature on the original, of course, it couldn't be otherwise, since it was our initiative. But I believe that this agreement, while we cultivate the possibility of being a signature, of being a permanent pension system, puts a small specimen in the way to form and deserve low pensions, and will probably affect the quality of many people and of many people. And so all I have to do is thank all the teams. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. It's the turn of the teams that's running the corrections. Together, Mrs. Tinishara, representing the Podemos team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u55	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, good morning to all. From Elkarrekin We can understand that this initiative is an opportunity to address, as it is obvious that we are all concerned about the situation of pensioners, and today in particular with regard to the subjective right to the income guarantee. The elderly are one of the main population groups in Euskadi, due in large part to the still low birth rate and the parallel increase in life expectancy. At present almost 20% of the people living in Euskadi are over sixty-five years old, and it is a reality that this percentage will be expected to rise in the coming years. It is expected that by 2040 the population over sixty-five will rub one third of the total census. In Elkarrekin We can bet that in Euskadi we develop as much as possible, within the framework of our competences, a guarantee system of rights that incorporates the needs and demands of the larger population, and that not only attends to extreme situations, but goes ahead with elements of prevention and promotion. A solidarity society like Basque guarantees protection and well-being to its citizens, and always taking into account those that can generate greater vulnerabilities. In this case, of course, economic income is a fundamental element, because unfortunately a large number of older pensioners, despite having their own income, cannot solve their daily lives with dignity and laziness, because these incomes are insufficient, and are therefore in a vulnerable situation. We know that criticism of all this goes beyond the powers of this Parliament; we also know that the space to talk about it is the self-government speech, and we will do so. From our group, in this sense, and in the different spaces in which we are represented, we are launching proposals both in the medium and in the long term, to reverse this profoundly unjust situation from the structure, but that does not touch today, as I have already said. Today we focus on GIR. We know that this benefit is not a solution to a structural problem, because it does not go to the causes, but we also know that today it is an instrument that certainly helps to improve the living conditions of people who access it. Of course, the GIR is a key piece today in our protection system, and that is why, when it comes to improving with regard to pensioners, we have to defend it; also, as we have been saying over the course of these months, we have to rethink it in a key to strengthening and progress, with the aim of reaching the greatest number of people, but of course all those who need it. We know that there are pensioners entitled to this benefit who are not being able to exercise that right, and we know that there are at least two reasons why they do not. There is one that has to do with the lack of information, the fact that not knowing that they can exercise this right makes them think they don't have it. Another, which we cannot fail to name today, has to do with the stigma that has spread from some areas and, of course, with some wills on the people who perceive the benefit. There are pensioners without knowledge and with right, and others with right and knowledge that but do not want to be pointed out as part of a stigmatized population, and this is something that needs to be addressed. It is not the first time that we have expressed in this space our concern about the xenophobic and stigmatizing discourses of poverty that do so much harm to subjective law, both to the population who exercise it and to the population who would have the right but feel ashamed to ask for help. And we also know that this is not the issue today, but, well, we couldn't stop pointing at it. In any case, we welcome the agreement we signed today, because through it we are going to push for measures so that pensioners have an accessible and truthful knowledge of a right of all. In this regard, it seems important to us to point out that, as it was already approved in March this year to carry out a communication campaign on the right to guarantee income, and we also assume that with the proposal of the People's Party on people working as self-employed people it will again affect this issue, in some way what we are doing with this proposal is to give substance to that communication campaign that we were proposing. To provide it with content also taking as a reference one of the proposals that have made us different collectives that have gone on to express their contributions on the reform of the GIR. Finally, just a couple of notes that we think it is important to highlight in relation to the content of the agreement and the campaign to be carried out. The gender approach. Because the profile of senior pensioner women is one of the most important and of those who occupy a space of greater representation within income-guarantee income earners. We need to consider how they receive it or how they make use of that information, so that the campaign is adapted to them. In addition to this, we also want to highlight the consideration of accessibility, since it is aimed at the implementation of information exclusively through new technologies, and we believe that this could be a risk in order to access the target group of this campaign. We understand that accessibility, also as access to information for the entire population, is an enrichment that we bring to this debate today. This is why I wish to value the generosity and effort of all the groups to arrive at an agreement, for they are progresses, and in this matter progress is indispensable in all other matters of right to maintain incomes. Just for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Euscal Group Popula representative. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u57	Thank you very much, Madam President. Firstly, I would like to announce that we withdraw our amendment, because we agree with the compromise that has been reached. And for mating some of the things that have been said here. The social security system has nothing to do with our income guarantee income system. That is where we have exclusive competence, and it is a system that we in this Parliament agreed on many years ago, and we have been improving it. And it's not to supplement pensions, it's not to supplement wages, it's not to supplement unemployment: it's so that anyone who doesn't have that kind of income can reach them. What can be used to supplement pensions? It can be used to supplement pensions. So, Mrs Kortajarena, I am not going to enter into the debate that you want a pension system of your own, because perhaps if we had it today, the one you want, at the moment we lacked 3.3 billion euros, that I don't know where we were going to get them, to pay the GIR. Because our pensions are very low, but it turns out they're the highest in Spain. And the other day in Madrid someone asked why Basques have the highest pensions, and nobody answered, "Maybe they've paid more." And when there are Basque pensioners today who have a low pension, it is perhaps because they have contributed less, or because they have not contributed. But everything you've said is right about one thing, which I also don't know why you talk about older women and so on. Basically we are talking about a very important group of widows, who are the ones with the low pension, but, Mrs Kortajarena, whether an older person, or not, has a low pension does not mean that he is entitled to income security income, because he may have other income, he may have a wealth that does not give rise to that right. Therefore, we agree with the approach, and we know the problem of many older people, which embarrasses them... But they're ashamed to ask because they have a culture that doesn't grow today. Today we are in the culture of rights, here everyone has rights, and obligations have no one. These people have always made it clear that they have rights and obligations. And it's true that people who would have the right to collect GIR today don't. And here there are two problems: some because they don't know it, and others because maybe they don't want it to be known that they charge it. And when we talk about this campaign, I do hope that the Government, when it does, will make it individualized, and that it will explain well what rights and obligations are. And, as I was saying, as we agree on the substance, as we agree on the approach for these people, because we know that it is a real fact, we, more than five years ago, proposed that in income guarantee income there are two clearly defined collectives: those who are in the labour market, and those who are not in the labour market, and that a differentiation had to be made. And those who are not on the labour market and are not going to be on the labour market never make any sense that they meet all the requirements we demand everyone in Lanbide for this system. And perhaps, in this reform, as we all agree, it is said that it is "with the greatest and broad consensus possible", so to see whether within that "greater and broad consensus possible" we are able to differentiate aid, or rights, or what you want to call it, from those people who are neither on the labour market nor going to be on the labour market, from those who are on the labour market and obviously have to fulfil many more obligations and requirements to receive the solidarity of all. Because what we all want is for them to stop being there so that they are inserted into the labour market, which is what this is all about. And perhaps if we could differentiate these two groups of people, then it would be all easier and easier. In any case, I repeat – I am not going to extend much longer – we agree with the compromise amendment, and we will therefore vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u58	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u59	Yes, thank you, President. Today we have achieved a broad consensus among all political groups in this initiative, and we must congratulate ourselves on that. They know that in the last parliamentary term we have succeeded in ensuring that, despite all the obstacles that have been put in place, the Basque Governments will end up compensating those affected by low-income medicines, and we continue to insist that the right to receive such aid not only be extended, but that citizens are informed of this possibility. On these dates we have seen this effort on the part of the Department of Health, and also with the right to housing, long and intensely worked, which is now in transitory phase, offering a roof to families who did not have it. It is not enough for Ignacio Arriola's department to have been able to accommodate close to a thousand families, but a few months ago it went to another 3,000 who, despite meeting the requirements to claim their rights, had not executed them. Socialists do not settle for demanding and legislating our rights; we want them to be effective. And, as we have agreed, it is not simply a matter of campaigning; it is also a matter of ensuring that the collectives have sufficient information to make their right effective. An effort of clarity that is especially necessary when we talk about older people, who are largely less familiar with bureaucratic procedures and the possibilities offered by technology. We are currently engaged in a process of reform of the income guarantee system, which started on 31 May with the presentation of the diagnostic document of the reform of this system, which was presented to the Committee on Employment and Social Policy by the Counsellor, Mrs Artolazabal. We are currently conducting all appearances to submit contributions prior to the drafting of the revenue guarantee income reform bill, with which we will expect to count in 2018. But it should be noted that not only are people who do not have income when their working life has been interrupted accessing the income guarantee system, but they are also accessing people who complete their low wages or low pensions to enable them to achieve a decent life. Our priority must be for every Basque citizen to receive a decent pension, which will enable them to meet their vital needs. We have established a system by supplementing pensions by means of income guarantee income when these do not reach to assure the pensioner that dignified life, the Basque Government makes a great effort to supplement low pensions through the collection of income guarantee income, but it is clear that the figures show us that there are many pensions that do not reach that minimum and the pensioners concerned do not request payment of the supplement through income guarantee income. And that may be because they have other income, other income, other assets, but it may also be because those affected do not know that they have that possibility. That is the reason for the compromise amendment that we have signed today, and it is for this reason that the Basque Parliament urges the Government, within the framework of the communication that will be made once we reach that broad consensus (hope that this consensus is broad) for the consolidation and improvement of the income guarantee system, to take specific action to give the information necessary to realize the right of pensioners to complete their low pensions through the GIR. This specific action will also incorporate a gender perspective and address in a differentiated manner the difficulties of accessing information from women with low pensions. And it will also have concrete, appropriate communication tools that effectively reach these pensioners. Of course, we will address this complement within the income guarantee income reform, and, once completed, we agree that it is important to carry out this communication campaign. We all agree that it is important to achieve this broad consensus in the reform of the GIR system; a fundamental system for cohesion and social justice in Basque society. It is important that people can live with dignity when their working life is interrupted, when wages, even working, are low, or when they retire. But the socialists too defend the public pension system, receiving decent and sufficient pensions through it, and having to be the viable and sustainable system, because if the amount of such pensions is sufficient it will not be necessary to have to complete them through the income guarantee income system in order to reach that dignified level. In 2013, the People's Party promoted a system, without consensus, that has changed the indexation of CPI pensions to a new index that keeps them practically frozen since then. From 2004 to 2011, the Socialist Party increased pensions by 30%, 50% minimum pensions and 90% widowhood pensions with dependent children. Since 2011, the People's Party has barely risen by 1%. In 2017, 9 million pensioners will lose two points of purchasing power at the time of inflation and, if the inflation target of the European Central Bank is met, 2 %. In ten years our pensioners can lose 15% and be 15% poorer. That is why the Socialists have defended in Congress once again linking the rise of pensions to the CPI. The public pension system is the backbone of intergenerational solidarity, and it is necessary to reverse the reform of the Social Security of the People's Party, made without agreement with the Toledo Pact and without social dialogue. The pension revaluation index is leading to loss of purchasing power for current pensioners, as well as the sustainability factor, which may result in significant reductions in the amounts of future retirement pensions. That is why one of the priorities must be the upgrading of the purchasing power of pensions, and the right to receive sufficient benefits and pensions to guarantee a decent standard of living. This requires increasing income in the system, starting with the protection of employment and its higher quality, in order to improve the collection of social security. But if the income received by these pensioners is not enough we have, within the Basque system of income guarantee, the possibility of completing the amount of the pension received through this system. Moreover, their need may be even greater in the coming years if we do not change the current pension situation. It is also important for pensioners to know this possibility and the procedure to be followed so that they can make use of this right in case of need. That is why we are going to support the compromise amendment that the Socialist Party has signed with the Basque Nationalist Group, with Elkarrekin Podemos and with EH Bildu, and which, although it has not signed it, will also vote in favour of the People's Party. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u60	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Too much of a woman, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good noon to all. It's as much a question today as if we're setting up a communication campaign about the rights of the pensioners in their low pensions. In this law there have been several times asked for publicity campaigns to guarantee incomes for rents, sometimes by Podemos and sometimes by EH Collect. A similar answer to ours to similar undertakings, and so we received it in our full correction. Well, as you know, a basic report to make sure the incomes change rents was made by EukoM, in response to the law enforcement order. When we're within a process of change of rule, what's the point of running a publicity campaign now? When there have been other disputes about this, we have said the same thing: once the new law is accepted, the Basque and Euncipator team will be first interested in socializing the changes. Then, when the change of the law is accepted, we hope to get hold of it with great consent, which will be the most convenient time for innovations and incomes to ensure the advertising of the terms of income. The moments in politics are of great importance. As we have already said during this parliamentary term in response to very similar requests, calling for powerful publicity campaigns to publicise the requirements for access to income-guarantee aid and for social inclusion, we do not see that this is the right time. We do not see the need for an advertising campaign now, when we are immersed in a modification and improvement of the system. It is much more logical and responsible to carry out such a campaign after changing the standard. It is important, very important, to make known the conditions and requirements of access, but with the new ones that can be presented. Otherwise, doing so now would seem to us to even act irresponsiblely, knowing that a modification can occur. As regards the substance of the matter, as the proposer says, despite the fact that pensions are not the responsibility of the Basque Government, the Basque institutions have been concerned and concerned about the situation of pensioners, even if in a tangential way, as Mr Damborenea said. And the sample is that the Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act provides for the possibility of supplementing these low pensions with income guarantee income. This decision was taken in 2008 by a large majority, in the exercise of their own powers, and as Mr Damborenea explained, I will not go into this. So the low pensions of Euskadin are composed of rents to support our income by using our jurisdictions. The pensioners with the lowest pensions form pensions, and I am sure that it will continue to be so, by the inclination shown by the several groups. As I said, we agree that when the law changes, we join the advertising campaign, we've come to a great agreement with all the groups signing the medium (beno, the Poptular hasn't signed it, but he's going to protect it). We're asking Eukko to have a special treatment from the pensioners who have low pensions. It makes sense and reason to be a specific action for this group, given its particular vulnerability, as well as its non-employability. We have talked on several occasions even about a different or specific itinerary for this group for access to GIR. Now that we are in the midst of a review of the income guarantee income regulation and the improvement of Lanbide's management, it may be time to take into account the specific situation of the group of pensioners who supplement their low pensions through the GIR. And in conclusion, we are pleased with the agreement we have acquired, and we are engaged to follow this way of agreement by the members of the legislature, in the process of improving the social system of the legislature. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. At the turn of the answers, Mrs. Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u63	Yes, very brief. Thanks again, ma'am. Well, I believe, Mr Damborenea, that the positions with regard to the positions of each group with regard to the pension system are very clear. We have discussed them more than once in this Parliament, and we will certainly continue to discuss them. And they're not really to discuss today. And I am with you that we really agree today on the substance of what was proposed in the initiative, and that is what we are discussing today and that is what needs to be highlighted. We also share the importance of an individualized campaign, and we also share this prospect of it correctly reporting both rights and obligations, of course. But the initiative did not refer to an indiscriminate campaign, because the initiative is framed in the RGI, in the complement that the RGI offers to people with low pensions, and the RGI has a very concrete framework; it is not that anyone can access. It has a very concrete framework, concrete conditions, which we really hope, within the framework of the reform, that they can vary so that some people who are now outside could also enter the system, but at the moment it has a very concrete framework and that is where we were proposing this amendment. Not an indiscriminate thing, directed at anyone, not taking into account their heritage, or anything we put forward. And indeed it is true that we have higher pensions than in the rest of the state, but we also have many people who are currently collecting very low pensions; for whatever reason, but who are collecting very low pensions. And since this community has made a bid for the social protection system, it has been equipped with tools to be able to dignify those pensions that are low and so that these people can live in decent and quality living conditions. And that's why this initiative was meant to be able to make the most of that tool, that tool that is a subjective right. It is a subjective right; it is not a help nor as we want to call it. It's a subjective right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Together, Poedemus. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u65	Thank you, ma'am. Very short, too. I'm sorry, but, as you know, I'm learning to the eucalyptic, and first, when I spoke of it, I got stuck in my way. Two things. Mrs Arregi, I fully agree with what you have said about the times when we are dealing with this type of initiative. It is also true that the need for information is not yesterday morning, and that this could have been addressed also in the past and has not been done. And, Mr. Damborenea, I'm sorry, but I had to go out, because, if not, I'm just blowing up. The GIR is not born to supplement pensions, of course not, but the reality is that with what both the People's Party and the Socialist Party have done with the public pension system people live worse and worse. And since we can do so, it will be best to find a solution to what is in our hands, that we hope it will be transitory, but that of course it will not leave anyone at the stand. No one, no pensioners either. What you have commented on regarding the possibility of conducting an individualized campaign can be an interesting element, as it is also interesting that people are reminded of their obligations. But in this case what we are talking about is that they are reminded of their rights, because many of them do not even know them, but also because I know that perceptors have quite clear obligations, because there is Lanbide systematically remembering them and it is the little information given to them quite clearly. However, in your speech you have let go of a patina of shame on a person who is a recipient of social benefits, which I not only do not share, but that is that in addition these are the attitudes that give way to the stigmatization of impoverished people. We, as parliamentarians, as members of political groups, have a responsibility to be consistent and to take care of our speeches, but we also have a responsibility as parliamentarians in the Basque Country to exercise this right, which has been a very difficult right to achieve. It is not an option or a desire of certain persons; it is an obligation, because it is determined by the regulations. RGI is not charity, it is not from the top down: it is a right of Basque citizenship, and as such we have to defend and protect it. No one is ashamed to go to the doctor, to be sicker or to be less, but we do legitimize with our speeches that people are ashamed to have exercised their right to the income guarantee. And it seems to me, Mr Damborenea, irresponsible, because we have to transform that, we have to end the criminalization of poverty. We have to get all involved, you too; we have to get all people involved in ending poverty, not hiding people in situations of poverty, but fighting with and for them to transform the situation and move forward, without leaving anyone on the road. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u67	The truth is that I didn't expect to intervene in the second round, but it seems that some of them stay this way, don't they? See, Mrs. Guanche, I don't know if you don't know or don't want to know, but I'm going to explain something to you. We have created this right; not you, who have just arrived in this House (forgive me, who have just arrived in this House) to give lessons to others here for nothing. We, and the socialists, and the Basque Nationalist Party. Yes, ma'am, we do. Not you. How can you tell me that today lives worse than before! What are you telling me? What country does he live in? Who do you live with, who lives worse than before? Maybe you don't know how you lived before. And when you speak of shame, you may not know the elderly in this country. Maybe you don't know them. And you know what I tell you? That I'm not gonna bother explaining it to him. I will not bother to explain to you how the elderly are in this country, especially the elderly in this country. If you don't know him, go out on the street and learn him. Mrs Sánchez, I'm not here to talk to you about pensions, but it's just that, apparently, it doesn't matter if we come to an agreement on something. See, I'm gonna tell you three little things, very easy, to see if you have any left. The Spanish Socialist Workers' Party is the only party that froze pensions. The only one, being president of Mr. Rodriguez Zapatero. I will tell you a second: the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party asked Mariano Rajoy to ask for the rescue in Europe, as Portugal and Greece did. Pensions fell by 30%. Third: the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party wanted pensions to continue to be referred to the CPI, which went down for three years. What they wanted was for Mariano Rajoy to lower his pensions. I am sorry to inform you that Mr Rajoy is smarter than that and is also in favour of pensioners, and that is why Spanish pensioners continue to collect the pension today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u68	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u69	Well, Mr. Damborenea, I knew you were going to tell me that. I was already counting on it, eh!, you didn't catch me that surprised. And it came out with "How, how I've been there!". It was perfectly predictable. But I have given you the data before in my first intervention: we raised pensions by 30% in general from 2004 to 2011, by 50% the lowest and by 90% the widowhood pensions with children. Which then went down by 7%? You can still see what mattress there was, from everything we had climbed before. And you guys have been up 1% since 2011 all the way up here. And how much purchasing power has been lost? I just said so too! And how much is going to happen in the next few years with inflation? They're going to be 15% poorer if we don't change the system that's been set up right now. So, what are we talking about, "you're the only ones down there"? What you do now is make the down payment of pensions also in arrears: it is done with the loss of purchasing power that is going to be produced in the different years. Pensioners are going to be poorer and poorer without going down, because they are going to lose that purchasing power. They don't go up, because they're practically frozen, they're up 1%, and they're losing more and more purchasing power... Who's taking them up the hill? You, with the system you've established! With which I do not come to give lessons, because obviously the numbers are the ones that speak of the difference. And, logically, in the compromise amendment today we agree that it is necessary to carry out that campaign, because if that amount of pensions received by Basque pensioners does not reach that level of dignity to which we have referred by the various parliamentary groups, logically, within our Basque system of income guarantee we have the possibility of having that mattress so that those pensions that do not – obviously, Mr Damborenea, are not all, but those that do not reach that minimum of dignity that we are marking – have that possibility. And, therefore, as has been seen in the numbers, between people who do not reach that minimum and people who ask for it there is an important difference. We have also said that this difference can arise from a number of other issues (which are not entitled because they have other income, other assets, etc.), but many of them will not ask it because they do not have enough information and do not know – as we have said in our exhibitions – that they have that right. With this in mind the realization of this campaign, once we reach the agreement to reform the income guarantee system – which will be desirable if it is with as much consensus as possible, given the importance this system has for all Basque citizens – that information campaign will be made at that time to reach that right to many more people and whoever wants to exercise it will be able to exercise it. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u70	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Too much of a lady, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u71	Thank you again, Mrs. President. The truth that we seemed to be in a debate of the Congress of Deputies: pension system up, down, the dignity or indignity of the same, who cut more, if the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, if the People's Party, if the pensions are sufficient or insufficient... I believe that we should focus on the subject of today's debate, on the agreement reached, which is less bad than there was agreement and which will be adopted unanimously, because, in view of the last speeches, it seemed that we were in the opposite of each other. Therefore, focusing on today's debate, we should be glad that those lower pensions in Euskadi, and within the competences we have, are completed through GIR, and remain so. And more specifically, we are left with that advertising campaign; that, once this reform and improvement of the Income Guarantee Act has been agreed, it will continue to be so, and that an information campaign will be carried out so that people, if they are not aware of it, can know their rights and obligations. And we are happy with the agreement reached. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote EHG, unite with Podemos, Eukal Socialists, and the middle-line correction that the Eunciators have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 72; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u73	It has therefore been unanimously admitted to the correction of the medium. Number of points in theme list: "Punciation of the same law as the parliamentary teams, of the establishment of the Educational Department at the table of education, and of the necessity of encouraging the conversation. Discipline and final resolution. On the page of the proposed team, Mrs. Ubera, representative of the EH Group. It's your word to introduce and defend the initiative. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u74	I'll start with a photo that we find on the public network. Closes in October, mobilization school. In November, strikes: November 9th, 16, 23, and today, 30th, strike. And December 12th, another strike. And I'm not going to put on top of the table the mutations and employments that I've had during last year's year's study. Child schools from Partian: The strike was called up above 1200 workers. The strike is over 86% in the workers' collection, according to the Eukong, 66%. Special Education: 1,000 workers were summoned. The strike is over 75%, and we don't know the records. The cooks: they were called470 Worker. The strike is more than 80%, and we don't know what's going on. Cleaners: they had been summoned to work by 330. It's about 65% strike, and we don't know the records of the Basque Munch. Today the teachers are out. In the afternoon, we'll meet the data and hope that you'll put the magazines on the table and know the data that you've been working on in the last few weeks. The status of the pledges. The Child Schools are from 2009, Special Education from 2004, teachers from 2010, cooks and washing machines from 2009. And what does this government say? There's an interview, there's negotiation. Where? Who? Seeing this picture, it's obvious that if anything is missing, it's dialogue and negotiation. I forgot to add to the photographing of the workers' conditions of language to the model of language, to leave the freeness of children to one side of LOMCE, New Hezice, social cohesion, integration, adequate answers to multiplicity, to produce eucalypticly multiple students... So again, from the condition of his work, we are faced with the unit of education which looks beyond his navel. Teachers, educationators, cooks, washing machines, whatever their profile is, we find with workers who are implicated and implying this people, citizens, professionals, and professionals, for the sake of a new generation, implicated in the interests of this people, in this society of euscal society, in the end, because the decisions which are made up for the day to-morrow, and for the purpose of determining the model of education which they are prepared for the day to-day, and of conditioning it. What have we seen during this interval? So what we've seen in the meantime is that there's been an interview and a negotiation from the Board of Education, but where? Madrid. With Madrid. Doing what? When LOMCE came in, it was agreed to keep the language models. Personally what a Wert-like Minister of Wert thought of us (EAE with the Board of Education, with hiccoughs) wanted to agree on the models of language. It makes me think. Or in Kupo's settlement, a certain amount for LOMCE's application is to agree on the fact that it's a peace fiction. But by making all the photos and putting all the data on the table, I can't mention the tables that have been started for the educational concert. But my question is: If the real deal is to be found, why doesn't it really want to solve the situation on a network that's actively responsible for the OAFIID? Why don't you want to find an agreement? I don't understand. I don't understand. And it was curious that in this process the delegations of the agents were not called. It's true that they had been summoned to an initial meeting, but then people have been summoned and working on the tables where they started, with all the good and bad sides of it, but at least, if it's curious. And one of the main factors of education is outside, E.H.I.G. And that should give us something to think about. It is true, too, that at the beginning of learning the Board of Education made a suggestion at the table of education, that, compared with the previous tables, something moved in response to the motives and proclamations of the professors, but in this proposal he did not take into account all the professionals of education community. And yet, seeing and knowing that our education system was not at this moment, and above all the proposition required by the public education system, our party thought of moving, thought to make an effort, so that we brought the subject which we are now discussing. And what was the plan we were planning? There is, in order to fulfil the proposal of the Government itself, to enter into the budgets of 2018, and then to form a proposition, which was lacking in the application of the professionals to make a more integrated plan. So what we only required was to obey the promise of the Government, to obey the word of the Basques, because we are of the word, don't we? But it won't be like that this time. In the matters which the government has made, there is no record of the proposal which he took with him to the table in education, or at least as a whole. It's half up. For example, in Child and First Education, there was an effort, but it's a trapping effort, because there isn't really a plan of artilecation, there's no other plan to face the provisionalness, because we have to consider that in this game of the Plant, this one, five, is also involved in the potential ascent. And if we consider the number of judgments that have been spent in the past few years, if we consider the plates, if we consider the places where they do not appear, we see that the lost employment does not recur, and that the squares are irritated; therefore the provisionalness of the stage has really become a nightmare to the public education system. And then, of course, in the Second Education, a descent is given in replacements. Today you're going to turn our proposal back, but you're being communicative with the style you're going to make politics. You deny, because you follow your navel, because you follow "I tell you and accept" and this style of politics does not lead us to anything: Today the bread presupposes hunger for to-morrow, and, of course, it suits you as a party, and it still contributes to you. And yet, even if you don't care about our proposal today, even if you don't want to agree with us in the presidency business, I'd like to ask you, at least I mean the education corrections we've put on the table in the budget, but other corrections, of course, will take a little turn around and accept the corrections we've put in education. Accept them, because they will, indeed, be useful to you, to restore the present situation, to give a proper answer to the discipline of education, and above all to the future, to build our education system in the proper terms of our society. And that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing the crews who were running the corrections, representing the Basque Potion Group. Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u76	Mrs Ubera, you have said one thing that, frankly, for our approach comes as a finger ring. You said "Bread for today, but hunger for tomorrow." We totally agree on that. I'll use it later, later, because you said it almost at the end, and it seemed very appropriate to me. Let us see, you in your motion urge negotiation, to resume the offer of a specific date, etc., etc. We all agree on the negotiation, but I believe that there are times when the obligation of the Administration to negotiate is confused and it is intended that this obligation extends to the point of agreement. The Administration has an obligation to negotiate, but what it cannot either, under the pretext of "They do not want to talk to me", "They do not want to sit with me", etc., etc., etc., is to delay decisions. We ask the Board of Education to make decisions. Let him negotiate, yes, but let him assume his responsibility. The responsibility for the progress of the Basque education system is not on the negotiating table, it is in the councillor's office. That is why we ask you to make decisions. We can't keep hearing the story of "Don't sit with me," "Don't want to," "It's so, it's what"... And it is true, there will be disparity, there will be disparity of opinions. Well, I don't know, we'll have to come to an agreement. Nor can we face these strikes for a long time, and if it is necessary to reach an award or whatever, it will have to come. But the decision and what we ask of the counselor is to assume her responsibility. Then there is something else in his speech, and it has been ratified in his speech, which also prevents us from joining his approach, which is as follows. You have said phrases, speaking of all the workers, to whom you referred as involved "with this people", "this people", etc., etc. Look, you're talking about the Basque public school, and you're singularizing the "people" in it. No, look, that's half the Basque school. The Basque school consists of the public part and the concerted part. The two have the same obligations, the same, but they do not have the same rights. And, what's more, the concerted Basque school, so herrikoia, so ferri hemengoa, bezain hemengoa, is not on strike, and you know that your salary is much lower than that of public school teachers. So, please, let's not make those differentiations, because for half the population they're hard to hear. The concerted school and the teachers who charge a lot are also from this town, and they are also involved with this town. And they fulfil the same obligations: the same obligations as the advice for the public, the agreed ones, of course, with a much greater penosity and with funding of at least 25 to 30 % lower. Well, let's keep going. That is why we have preferred to reach a compromise amendment with the groups that support the Government, because they certainly take up the fact of calling for negotiations. They pick him up. And in that we all have to agree, but, I tell you, the obligation to negotiate is not the obligation to agree. And then also because they have taken into account..., we have been able to include a point that is vital to us, and that they will hear us repeat it over and over again. And it's that in education we're acting the best we can all, no doubt, but we're acting in a very, very, very unstable scenario. And why do I say this? Because if any field of activity in Euskadi and in the Administration, in the Government, is closely related to what is happening with the birth of this country, that is the Department of Education. Look at the problems we currently have with the haurreskolak: in some places there are plenty of squares, in other places there are missing squares. What do we ask of the Department of Education? Please do a study... At the proposal of the government groups we have removed the deadline, but in order to plan for education, for the public, for the concerted, for the haurreskolak, for the teachers, for the infrastructures, it is necessary to have a scenario at ten years view, a demographic scenario at ten years view. Look, I've got some little Eustat data. In 1975 19.1 children were born per thousand inhabitants; in 2016 8.4 children were born per thousand inhabitants. Why do I put the date of 1975? Well, among other things, because she's the first one to give the Eustat, what am I gonna fool them for! But it also seems to me very appropriate because it is time, from that date on, when the new infrastructures in Euskadi are speeded up. And I no longer say after the 1979 Statute and during the first eighty, in which we began to have full powers. Of course, we have a scenario then that for every thousand inhabitants 19 children were born. Today, every thousand inhabitants are born 8.4. And also the tendency is descending, descending, descending. Let's talk about agreements, of course we do. Let us remember that conventions have ultraactivity (i.e., what is signed today is no longer discussed), but let us talk about conventions. Let's talk about the working conditions, of everyone, not just the Basque public school, as you do, saying bear inpikatuak daudela herri honekin, eta herrikoiak say it, eta abar, eta abar. Kontzertatua, that's a hell of a thing. Hemengoa da, maita ére, maita herrikoia ére. Let's talk about everyone. But, of course, what we can't do is move forward every four years, trying to cover the water, trying to put on flints, trying to do things, if we don't have an idea of this country's scenario, of the demographic scenario, at least ten years from now. Because this is getting worse and worse. This story has a good thing, and it's that our unemployment data will probably improve. But why do they get better? Because the working population is falling, people are retiring, and there are no substitutes demanding those jobs. It's one of the factors, there are many more. Things are being done reasonably well, etc. But let us not forget the importance of demography in all fields, and especially in this one. Since last year, births have fallen by 4.5%, and we are making infrastructure, and I have not seen any report, especially on infrastructure and work (also work), that is taking that perspective. We're gonna have to come up with new ways to do it! And the new forms, for me, for our group, are not, for example, those that have been raised in some of these cases, which consisted in gathering schools and making children have to ride by bus every day twenty kilometers of ride and twenty kilometers of ride back. We have a very good example, of a situation of this kind, in the community that has the best results from all of Spain, which is Castile and León. Castile and Leon have that problem that we are going to have right away, which is that of the geographical dispersion and the small population, and they have solved it with what is called skola txikiak, that is, the old schools that brought together children of different classes, and in this way they could have a sufficient number. That, which seems like a thing of the past, is what is being implemented in Castile and León to fight this problem, and they are having the best results in Spain. But all of this has to start happening now, because I don't know if you've noticed, it's been a year, and these four are going to fly. And what are we going to be, anyway? Please, let's get to work now. We shall vote in favour of the agreed amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u78	Today we have a non-legislative proposal presented by Bildu on the need to materialize the proposal made by the Department of Education at the sectoral education table and to promote dialogue. Man, your presentation indicates that what is obvious is a willingness to start and start that negotiation, right?, with which we would already be in a positive scenario. On this subject, we had the opportunity barely a week ago to hear the counselor report on the process of reflection and participation with the aim of reaching a pact for education, and also to hear the appearance of the Vice-Advisor of Administration and Services, in which she explained the proposal made by the department at the sectoral table and explained the vision that the Department of Education itself has in this regard. As you will know, on 27 September the Department of Education and the trade unions met at the sectoral table of teaching officials, as agreed since the summer. The department convened the table in order to move its proposal from the commitments made, and there a few commitments were put on the table that do not seem to me to be very minor. You have let them pass as if they were of no greater importance, but I think they are substantial. And I'm going to read them: 5,000 teaching places to offer through different OPEs in this legislature, which means an increase in the places offered on the initial forecast (one that, by the way, you wanted to paralyze at the time); a stake for educational stability, reducing interinity by ten points, and going from 27% of interinity rate to 17% in this legislature; on the other hand, there are replacements for teachers from the first day, both in Children's Education and in Primary Education. These things are good to know, because one hears it from you and it seems that this is absolute chaos and nothing more tremendous, and it is evident that they are subjects that have substance and entity, and that the agents themselves positively valued, something more than you in this rostrum. Finally, there should be greater stability in the temporary staff, maintaining the staff position until it is covered by a public offer of employment. And it seems to us that these proposals for progress and improvement are firm commitments of the department, which we hope will be carried out and which we hope, of course, will be fulfilled. But it is clear that the administration and trade unions do not always agree, and proof of this are the strikes convened so far and the general ones that continue to be convened, so far, for the 12th of December. And it is true that the strike is a democratic right and that when someone manifests himself it is because he does not agree with the measures being carried out, which means that there is always a background that justifies these initiatives. And that is what is happening on this occasion: the unions have as a fundamental demand the increase of the staff and the reduction of the temporality, and it is also true that these same concerns, in general, have them the workers of the public network. Therefore, what needs to be done is to find a balance between the legitimate right to strike, and let the social side make its proposals, and also to avoid giving a negative image and permanent conflict of Basque public education. Because trade unions and the administration can have, and often have, different immediate goals, but I always understand that they share a higher goal, which is to achieve educational excellence in our country, and the training excellence of students. And, therefore, agreements and viable solutions must be reached for these negotiations to come to fruition, and for that there must be good willingness on both sides, on the part of the Administration and on the part of the trade union. Because the problem that arises between public teachers and trade unions may not be just wage resolution or their labour rights (it can always be a turning point in a negotiation), but I am concerned about the feeling of instability that the public education network in Euskadi has been generating for quite some time now. And when a network, in this case the public, generates almost permanently a situation, a feeling of instability, which benefits immediately are the other educational networks in this country. Because a parent, when he or she is going to enrol his or her son or daughter in an educational institution, chooses the educational offer for many factors; of course for what the centre offers him or her, but also for the stability that this centre offers. And when the public network – I know it's not popular in many environments to say what I'm saying, but I honestly believe it is so –..., when the public network is on continuous calls for permanent strikes it projects an image of instability and anxiety that can affect, and in fact does, negatively the registrations on the public network. I therefore believe that we should try to avoid conflictivity, especially in terms of what may affect the public network. With this I don't want to blame just the union part. Here is the responsibility of the trade union and, of course, the education administration as well. But we are in danger that the image that remains in the collective imagination of Basque parents is that the concerted network is a safer, quieter network, has no conflicts, and offers greater guarantees. I don't think that's true, but I don't want it to feel like it. And, therefore, as that walk of the sectoral table has already begun, the good thing is to let it go. It is a step forward that these tools are available to reach agreements. It meets and negotiates on aspects of relevance for the education system, for a higher quality of our teaching, both for students and teachers, in which the educational community can contribute – and in fact is doing so – its ideas and knowledge. A plural table, in which we debate and talk in order to reach great pacts, seeking the best solutions, and in the understanding that both sides are seeking the improvement and strengthening of the Basque public school. And this must be a process that includes all the agents concerned if we want to get something out of that experience, but, as I said, we have to let it go. It has just been formed, and we need to give it a space of time and improvement, and soon to appreciate the experience positively, because different voices and different opinions are sought to reach agreements. That should be the principle of what we all expect to happen in the medium term, which is that educational pact that we all talk about, but that we do not all put the same enthusiasm into it. We already know that it will certainly not be easy or easy to achieve this, but at least this is a measure that we value positively and that seems to us to be an appropriate procedure to start with, because we are at the beginning. We already know that there are difficulties and a lot of mistrust on the part of the sectors that are represented in these working groups, which start from the different situations in which everyone is, because they are teaching staff, or as a union, as Administration, as a public network, as a concerted network, etc., etc., because all sectors are represented there. And we trust that each working group will know what the common end is and work for it. Public education has to have a stability framework, I repeat, in order to be effective, efficient and attractive to Basque students, so that they can offer quality education and not be subject to the political changes of every moment, because, if not, we would end up with Basque public education. It must be provided with guarantees to guarantee a horizon, because that must be a country bet, a country challenge, that concerns the entire educational community. That is what we wanted to reflect in the amendment prepared between nationalists and socialists and finally fucked with the People's Party: a show of confidence in that work at the sectoral table, a commitment to make the commitments that are being made there, and an issue that the People's Party was asking us and that we think is important, which is to know through that study what the demographic impact that will be produced in the next decade in Basque Country will be, because that will obviously have to have its reflection on educational planning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u79	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u80	Thank you, Chief of Parliament, and good noon to all. As to the contents of the equipment, we discussed here, a matter of two weeks ago, a new initiative that suggested change in the budget was in our hands, and I said it was late, and I have to say the same thing to-day. It's late, because it's late, and the party's decided to discuss it later, but it's not a coincidence to discuss it today. As far as the intention or aim of the understanding is concerned, we do not deny the discussion, but we are informed that the legislature is not to be used as a part of the union strategy. But to what I am about: What are we talking about? What are they, and how many of them are the workers of the Board of Education? Public teachers outside the university, 24,000, law professors, 900 persons, staffs of services, 703 people in kitchens and toilets, professors of religions, 275, workers of administration and services, 568 people. And each of these collectives is governed by a sub-agreement or regulatory agreement on working conditions, as well as their negotiating forums are referred to their respective sectoral tables or negotiating tables, at which obviously trade union representation varies. And the willingness to negotiate by the department at this time has been absolute, and over the past year it has convened various meetings with the trade union representatives of each of the above-mentioned groups. "No, norekin?" Uncle Ubera andreak. In this legislature, trade unions have been called to the following meetings: teaching officers, two planning commissions and three sectoral tables; teaching and educational workers, two equal tables; religious teachers, one negotiating table; cleaning and cooking workers, two equal months, as well as several territorial working tables. But as time is limited I will focus mainly on the group of teaching officials, being the one that includes most of the workers. Let us return to the tenth legislature (2013-2017), to the economic situation at the time, without forgetting the centralizing attitude shown by the Spanish State. Since the beginning of the last parliamentary term, the Basque Government has begun the task of negotiating a new agreement to renew the agreement signed in 2010, and several meetings of the sectoral table have been held for this purpose. In this environment, social actors raised some areas of demand that could not be satisfied and could not even be renegotiated because of the economic situation that affected us as a society, as well as the imposition of basic regulations. Consequently, the possibility of analysing and negotiating other aspects, such as teacher training, the euskaldunization of the system or the improvement of licenses and permits, was frustrated. From that moment on, the unions responded with their lack of assistance. However, as a strong advocate of negotiation and joint work to advance the quality of the system, in the tenth legislature the department again convened the different tables. In that forum he proposed an OPE of 740 places, as much as possible then taking into account the replacement rate, and the offer was derived from a single teaching body, that of teachers and teachers. And the Basque Government did so, even if there were voices from the trade union and political spheres calling for their delay, also from this very rostrum. And, despite making a strong commitment to public employment calls as an instrument for staff stability, as well as school cloisters, the three majority trade union centres decided to hold strike calls. And the first was in March of this year. The next sectoral table was held on 4 May, and topics of great importance were put forward. One of these topics was the analysis of interinity, in order to look for formulas for the increase of stability (this analysis shows that interinity rubs 27% among teaching officials, which we must certainly gradually reduce). Another of the points addressed was that of the OPEs and the possibility of reaching the call of 3,000 seats in the current legislature, as much as possible on those dates. A proposal for work on the planning of vocational training TPNs was also moved, with a clear objective, which was the euskaldunization of vocational training. That is to say, concrete proposals were moved, plausible actions were also of great relevance to the educational institutions and to our teaching staff. In the meantime, various negotiating tables have been maintained, but the Government's response has been to call for various mobilizations. These calls respond to a previously defined trade union strategy. I'm talking about that famous hot autumn we were announced in spring. And I say this because the fact is that at the sectoral table coincident with the end of the school year they were placed for a next meeting at the beginning of this school year, without having been expected to hold it. This statement I realize with the greatest respect, although making a call to the responsibility that each one of us has to attend to a greater interest, as is normality in the attention to our students. That is, to a greater interest such as the education of boys and girls. However, in the current context, the meeting of the sectoral bureau was held on 27 September, at which a more developed proposal, a comprehensive and highly relevant proposal, was presented. This is a viable and legally defendable proposal. It is essential to flee from abstractions and assumptions, and to focus and to acquire commitments that can really be fulfilled. In drawing up and making this proposal, the department has built on a principle, a commitment and a conviction: the principle of reality, the commitment to ensure and ensure better education, and the conviction is that our teacher, our teachers and teachers are the driving force behind our educational system, the fundamental pillar of the change and educational success of our students. That is why they must be the best qualified and must enjoy good working conditions, and the Government is the first to be interested in this. What is this proposal? In a public job offer of 5,000 places in the period 2017-2020. After analysing the possibility of increasing the initially planned places, which were at least 3,000 according to the 100 per cent replacement rate, and following the possibility that an additional rate has been opened in the area of priority services, 2,000 more places have been committed to future OPEs throughout this legislature: 5,000, all of which are currently possible. These OPEs have a direct relationship and impact on the reduction of interinity. Thus, the application and implementation of this additional rate will result in a 10-point interim reduction from around 27 % to 17 %. Another proposal to promote stability is the appointment of interim staff until final coverage. The department asked the unions for their opinion on the proposal that the department moved to the June sectoral table, which was summarized in the commitment to generalize the appointment of temporary staff until the formal filling of vacancies, exceeding the current appointment of the school year. Another aspect of great importance to which the Basque Government has committed itself is the modification of the substitution regime, in which also now, in addition to Infantil, substitutions will be made from the first day also in Primary from January 1, 2018. And what was the offer made by the unions? In the course of 2016-2017 the union proposal has been: strike on 22 March, strike on 16 May, strike on 23 May. In the current course, 2017-2018, the proposal has been: strike on November 9 in haurreskolak, strike on November 16 of the cleaning and cooking staff, strike on November 23 of the special education staff, strike on December 12 in all the collectives, which we will see in the coming weeks, and, of course, strike today, November 30. It's a pity not to meet all this energy at the negotiation table, because it would be much more effective. With regard to other issues that are mentioned in connection with this debate, we are talking about the ratios that apply. I would like to recall, as I have said more than once, that the ratios that apply are those contained in the 2010 agreement regulating working conditions, agreed with the trade union representation. The Basque Government has defended and maintained our own policy of ratios, which is far more advantageous and appropriate than that established in the State. With regard to investment, education, along with health and social policies, are a priority of the Government – so we discussed it fifteen days ago – and I would also like to recall that the education budget has not ceased to grow in recent years. In Euskadi, EUR 9,868 is invested per pupil, while the European average is EUR 9,353 per pupil. And yet – and I said this in that debate – in our case, it is no longer a greater investment, but an adequate and effective investment, a more efficient use of our staff and resources. As Mrs. Bengoche and Mr. Pastor said, we signed a middle-way on two accounts: On the one hand, we ask M. M. M. M. M. M. M. We ask the division to present an examination in the presence of the legislature, the influence of the demographic projections in the course of years to come, on the reality of the education system. And if the will of all the legislatures be to negotiate and agree, it seems to us that they ought not to have any difficulty in protecting this half-rational correction. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u81	Thank you, Mrs. News. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Together, Poedemus. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u82	Good afternoon. Thank you, ma'am. Partners. We're discussing this other legally in the legislature. Yes, it is a proposition which seeks to improve the labor conditions and education of public education; but when this dispute is given in the street, here, in the name of Gaste, and in many other countries, there are thousands of teachers who strike and call it the general strike of December 12th education. Today we are debating a proposal aimed at improving public education, and, while we are debating, the faculty today, and other collectives at other times..., and also for day 12 there is a strike. From here, from Elkarrekin We can, also all our support. A strike, yes, for working conditions. Of course I would, I'd miss less! As much as the Government before the summer and then continues to send messages, nothing innocent either, about the working conditions of teachers. But also, apart from being a strike for working conditions, it is a strike that claims educational conditions for public education of a dignified nature. Because the underlying problem is that until a few weeks ago the Government had not sat down at the table in recent months, and the problem now is that the proposals that were made were and are entirely insufficient for the social part, which are not Martians, who are teachers and teachers and workers in the public sector. And here at this point, to make things clear, I would like to point out the absolute respect from our group to the tables, and that where we have to negotiate is at those negotiating tables between the government and the social side. But neither does this prevent Parliament from accompanying the demands that are made from different sectors, as we have in other debates, and supporting the demands, which are ultimately the demands that come or that are analysed that are needed by public education to advance in their quality. Because what is clear, and Mr. Pastor was also saying, is that when mobilizations don't stop something is happening. And, well, everyone will have their vision on that subject, and perceptions, of course, are, and are questionable and debatable, but I believe and believe that there is a wide margin of improvement, and we have said it in the Committee on Education and in this plenary, and one of the places where it is best reflected is in budgets, both in how much and where it is invested. Because it is true that there are more budgets than last year, of course, but they are budgets that reinforce an educational system that has two very clear realities. Budgets that at least are not the largest in history, and are budgets that are obviously not resolving the conflict that exists (in addition to claiming the most beautiful part of that word, "conflict"), which is a democratic conflict on the part of a social party against decisions that believe wrong or arbitrary or inefficient on the part of a government, which are the mobilizations and strikes of the teaching and educational staff, which is disgusted by the government's policy, which is annoyed by the high temporality (which also has a debate; which, even if it is 35 or 27, is in any case high) and which is also annoyed by the lack of coverage of the first day's casualties. It is true (now there is a commitment) that in the part of Early Childhood Education and in the part of Primary Education will be resolved, but we also have secondary education pending. And that's annoying that union part too with which the cuts that were kept for a very long time are not being reversed. Because also from a qualitative point of view, and not only quantitative, the panorama, sincerely, is desolating, because I think that even with aesthetics you are not being careful, that you also have to take it into account. What we are seeing is that, while public education remains in a very similar situation, the budget for private education concerts is increasing by 2%, and we are not going to put all the data that we put on the Education Committee, but it is that overall the educational concerts on top of them go down, but the budget goes up. We will be very heavy, but we will continue to say that these budgets consolidate these two realities, and that the strengthening of the public school, apart from with declarations, apart from with decrees, must also be done with budget. That the strengthening of the public school must, of course, be done with the greatest funding and with the improvement of the centres of public ownership. We do not believe at this point that increasing the funding of educational concerts is the way to strengthen public education, more when that goes, of course, to the detriment of public education. Because ask but in Miribilla, ask in Gasteiz, ask in the Old Party of Donostia what they think about this. And let's talk about GDP. The weight of public spending on education on the total wealth of the country's Euskadi has decreased alarmingly: year 2009, 4.27; year 2018, 3.5. It is no longer that we have to approach 6%; it is that we are still far from that 6% that UNESCO recommends. Last week we also tabled a non-legislative proposal to discuss the 0.5 % increase in the education budget. We are not going to reproduce what has already been said in that debate. Both that debate and the budgets indicate that there is no will, that we have two totally different realities or two totally different views between the Government and at least the groups of Euskal Herria Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos, and that there is at least no progress in this area. We will therefore support Euskal Herria Bildu's initiative, as I say, from respect for the negotiating scenario that has to be done at the tables between the trade unions and the government. However, let us defend that proposal which comes to accompany that process and which comes to make that process materialize later in this year's budgets. Because in addition Elkarrekin Podemos-ek Aurrekontuetan aurkeztu dituen zuzenketetan eta sindikatuek egiten dituzten aldarrikapenetan zenbait gai garrantzitsu jorratu ditu eta jorratzen dituzte. It seems to us that the growth of the public educational conversion of the Eucomunion, at least, in proportion to the average of the European Union. Then we'll have time to get to that 6%. Restricting the temporary amount of 30%% to 6% to increase the templates and require planning also. There must be some planning, even at tables there must be agreements, but there's need to be a schedule. Restricting students ratios to 10%. The making of substitutions in all cases from the first day, outside the Basque Schools of the LOMCE and New Zealand, and also that opening around the new law, we have this discussion that we have in the Board of Education the unions of the Discretions, the intervention of all the educationists, and the opinion of the people. One must consider all of them. We have to make an effective negotiation process. And because we agree with these proclamations, we support the law and protect the workers who are on strike today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u83	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. We'll take the answers turn. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u84	You have spoken to me of the principle of reality. You were with me at Cervantes school. You heard, you saw how crude reality was with the facts, but teachers confronted this fact with their vocation, their vocation, their commitment, their convictions. You saw it. Then it's not because we say so. Here are the representatives of the parents who come to the Board of Education, the schools, the visitors we're doing... Perhaps Mr. Pastor doesn't know the fact that he hasn't come to visit. Come, look, listen, get out of the trenches! Look what's happening! That strikebs look like a bad picture? It's bad, isn't it? Can't we claim our rights? An active community, a critic, a member of the community, who defends the interests of the community, and defends the interests of our children... Is it bad? Doesn't it do right? Are we going to rent it negatively? Parents are implicated with the teachers of the public network. We're involved. We protect them. Why? Because we see that our children are defending the interests of our children, because we see that they are defending our education system, that they are defending our future, that they really believe in another example of this society. They're fighting for the future. And if you know where the only "depression" comes from here? And who "depresses" the public net? This Board of Education, this government, the policy of its department towards whatever it is, "depresses," commitments, inversions... And I agree that it's not all investments. I don't know how many proposals we've made, because it's not all investments, but how this investment is divided. And we have often spoken of the change of paradigma and the change of paradigma, in which a strategy is required to answer the roots which this complex society of ours now possesses. But there's no planning, there's no strategy, there's no strategy. Where are we going? Do you know what this Board of Education is doing? This Board of Education is consolidating the current situation, that's what he's doing. I don't know whether the decision is conscious, but if the decision is conscious, it is a very dangerous decision. And it will be evident that this government does not aim at human end, that it believes in the cohesion of society, that it does not believe in multiplicity, that it does not believe in integration, and that the social life will become greater and greater. But perhaps all this has been well calculated, and even in its surroundings (in a pattern of reregation, variety, and management), perhaps it has economic calculations. And there's a search for business. If that were the case, it would really be very troubling. But that's what I'm supposed to think? I don't want to think that, I don't want to believe that in this government. And if that's not the strategy, it'll be that this Board of Education has no direction, no direction. And that education for him isn't strategic. And I don't know if Mrs. Uriart knows about it, but it's like she knows about it, but education is the column of a society. It is the column of an education, of a culture, the most important means we have to redistribute the wealth, and you are weakening it every year. And the choices you're making are already in college, we're under the influence of educational authority, we're suffering, but in three years, the whole society will suffer. Maybe that's what this government is looking for. But it seems to me that this situation must be solved before it's too late. I may be dramatic, I don't know, but what's happening with me seems to me to be disturbing. I'd be worried, if I were in the government, to see how many strikes I have, to see what reality is, when the teachers come to school and tell us what they say, I'd be worried. And Mrs. De Bengoechea, this was a discussion of the public network, of course, the unit of education that has been connected with it is also applicable to this people, and it is to be considered. What I meant was a model of education, such a model of society, and the importance of education. And if you really care about the situation and if you really see there's no strategy, I know you're entitled to it, and I say it with all due respect, but then you're always supporting the politics of this government at the time, you're supporting it. So think it over, you're entitled to it, and I respectfully tell you, but it seems to me that the situation and the picture is at least capable of reflection. And, Mrs. Overrill, I don't know if we're late with our proposals, we've been trying to get different proposals back and forth. Sooner, later... I really would've asked for it... More, more, more to try and make a special effort to take a turn to this situation we really are in.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mrs. De Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u86	For, Mrs Ubera, you are right in one thing, which I have acknowledged several times: that I am here in a situation to some extent uncomfortable, because it seems that I am defending a project and an action which I consider to be very much capable of improving. I agree with you that education is the pillar, it is the future, and so on and so forth. And I'll add something else: education is the best inheritance we leave to our children. But you tell me that it's okay, that today it's time to talk about Basque public education. But do you know what's going on? That until I mentioned in my first intervention that there is another network here no one had adjectived "public" education. It was about "the Basque school", "the Basque school", "the Basque school"... , as if there was no more, and that's why I was forced to say yes, there was more. But we are going, of course, I believe that in the area of negotiation too things have a wide capacity for improvement, and that many of the approaches of the trade unions have to be taken into account. For example, the substitutions, which seems to be already going to be but which should also be for Secondary, temporality... We can agree on that. But there are things I see, well, the efforts the department is making, but what I don't want is also that the fact that no agreement is reached is an excuse for not making any decisions. We have to make decisions, and what we can't turn it into is "No, it's that, of course, as the unions don't want...", "How I don't feel...", "How I don't know what...", all paralyzed. No, we have to make decisions. Then there's another thing that I don't like either and that I think we all do something, but I've heard it especially. It is to base the debate on judgments of intent: "I think they do it because..."; "I think that, as in Madrid to approve the I don't know what...". Please, it seems to me that it degrades politics to do it, to build it on judgments of intent. It's something that seems basic to me. And I also believe – not so much for the intervention of Euskal Herria Bildu as for the intervention of Elkarrekin Podemos – that what is intended with these kinds of speeches is to penalize the freedom of choice. Currently the Basque Autonomous Community, Euskadi, invests per pupil in public school (in public school) more than is invested in all of Spain. I think we're 30% up. It's not the figures, but it's by using the percentages: where in one place you invest 70, or the average is 70, we invest 100. That is, theoretically, the public school is well endowed with funds. Now let's see how we use them. That's the key, how we use them. But when I hear the Lord of We can say that the public school is wrong because there is the concerted one, so, truth, that seems to me not to be a receipt. Then I'll ratify. What we are asking is that we negotiate, that we respond to petitions that are reasonable and fair, that we do not take as an excuse the lack of agreement not to make decisions. Fourth, take a broad look at all that is Basque school, which is much more than its half (it is also its half, and its majority half, but also much more). And finally, that when we are making decisions and making plans we understand that they will be very short-term and very transitory if we do not have a projection of what is going to happen to demography for at least the next ten years. It's the least of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u88	Yes, if I may... Well, Mrs. Ubera, I didn't want to criminalize the unions here for calling strikes. I'd go against my own convictions. What I do think is that it is important to reflect on whether the permanent conflictivity in public school does not end up damaging the image of the public school itself to which we all say we defend. And if that doesn't cause many parents to choose which network they send their children to, they don't opt for a concerted school because it gives them more peace and stability. And I think that's something that the administration and the unions have to take into account. You know as well as I do that there are a lot of people who do that thinking before deciding which school they send their children to. And you know, what happens everywhere, in all three territories, be it rural areas or other areas. And, therefore, I think that is an element of reflection. And then I think that on these issues, when it comes to seeing reality, this is like the drunks and the bottle: I want to see it half full and you strive to see it always half empty, and to draw a catastrophic view of the situation. That I can agree with you that it's worrying or bad, but ultimately catastrophic... I can't agree with you. And I return to the subject of collective bargaining and image. I think it's a bad feeling that it's generated by the public network. And now we can find another added problem: yesterday the negotiating table of the agreed centers was broken. Just yesterday. With this we can meet within four days with the perfect storm, with the conflictivity both in the public network and in the concerted network. And, respecting and defending the right that everyone has to defend their interests, I think that above and beyond the individual interest, which is perfectly legitimate, we would all have to think about the interest of what matters most, which is the future of education in this country.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u89	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians. Dear madam, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u90	Thank you, Chief. Yes, Mrs. Rebeka Ubera, I said it's late. I said that even 15 days ago. For in the last month we have discussed two initiatives in the whole company, and both of them were concerned with two accounts which would have to have been foreseen by the project already presented, so they were late. And yet more have I said: it is not a chance to discuss this matter today. Mr Martínez has told us that the Basque Government has not sat down until the last few weeks to negotiate anything. I don't think you've been very careful when I was speaking in my first speech. I'm going to miss the tenth legislature, I'm going to focus on the XI legislature: teaching officials, two planning commissions (14 February and 15 March) and three sectoral tables (23 December 2016, 25 January and 5 April); educational teaching workers, two equal tables (24 November 2016 and 27 February 2017); religious teaching workers, a negotiating table on 10 February; cleaning and cooking workers, two equal tables (24 November and 30 March), several territorial working tables. Therefore, you will tell me whether that is "the last weeks" or this comes from many months and years ago. The various tables have met normally, with the normal tensions and discrepancies at a trade union negotiating table. The lack of normality at these meetings has been marked by the punctual absences of STEILAS, LAB and ELA, within its strategy marked in advance. And I've already said that a union strategy has started and some legal teams have become part of that union strategy. And inside this strategy, there are a number of things that are not true and are not related to reality. And again, in this second turn, I have heard almost literally what we can read in the writings and journals of several unions. I'll try to patch some of them up on points. Interimity. Some say that interinity is about 40%, but the level of interinity computed after an objective analysis is 26.9. Because the data provided by some unions do not withstand a minimum rational and objective analysis, as they include part-time and replacement positions, which must necessarily be covered by interim staff. For example, part-time places serving to cover teacher's licenses and permits, as set out in the teaching agreement, must necessarily be covered by temporary staff, right? And we understand that you can't compute it as interinity. The same could be said of the freed trade unions that we have in our system, that these places are occupied by interim staff, logically. That can't be computed as interinity either, I say! With regard to public offers of employment, the Basque Government has always proposed the places permitted by the regulations at any time, given the need to grant legal guarantees to the candidates who are presented. We are talking about a real possibility of offering 5,000 seats in this legislature; 5,000 stable employment opportunities. It is you who claim to bet on the whole public, the advocates of the public one hundred percent, who are trying to prevent OPE for 5,000 people in this legislature. With regard to the ratios, I say again that these are the ratios that were negotiated in 2010, and that are being met. In the second cycle of Child Education, the greatest ratio is that of 23 Disciples, and the average of our Schools, 18.53. First-school ratio, 25 students. What's our average? 19,81. DBHn maximum ratio, 25. What is the average in our schools? 21st.12. Thus, though we repeat it over and over again, it is not true that we are overcome and overcome. It is also said of the development of the number of teachers, or some say that our system requires 1,800 more teachers. I'm just trying to figure out that the number of teachers has gone up and up from the year 2008-2009. But can you increase the number of students and not increase the number of classrooms and, therefore, the number of teachers? Yes, and it's very simple. For example, we have a classroom with ten students and a teacher. If there is an increase of seven students we will continue to have a classroom and a teacher, until the number of 25, which would lead to two classrooms and two teachers. And this is what is happening: the number of students has increased and the number of teachers has also increased in some stages, but not in the same proportion, logically. With regard to the proposals, we understand that we are dealing with a viable and legally defendable proposal, based on the principle of reality; that you are trying to transfer union and labour claims to families, to students; you are deliberately confusing labour claims with system claims, and we understand that it is neither ethical nor sincere. We do not understand that there are reasons of a work nature that justify an extreme measure such as the permanent and permanent call for strikes. We ask you again to take responsibility and responsibility, and at the same time we don't give up the union strategy that leads us to nothing and start negotiating. The government is ready, and we believe that if this legislature were to act with responsibilities, it would require that. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u91	Thank you, Mrs. News. And, finally, we're representing the Podemos team together. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u92	Thank you. Madam of the PP, the demographic issue is obviously a matter of concern to us all, and all public policy must be based on that. But I think it is a shared feeling, or an idea shared by all groups, that we also aspire to reverse that demographic trend that Euskadi has. I believe that we agree here, and I believe that the three parties on my right have agreed on a number of tax breaks for the issue of child support, but effective public policies are not going to be achieved with that. Because, to reverse this demographic issue, where are the quality employment policies?, where are the public education policies that also help family reconciliation?, where are the policies to improve the haurreskolas? Where's all that? Well, then, because let's do a study, which, well, it'll be important, it'll be interesting to read it, I don't think we're going to reverse that. So... Well, I'm saying it for lowering expectations a little bit about what they've agreed to. On the subject of bad image, which I believe has been a shared theme and is a topic that can be talked about in the committee and in the street, I think that sincerely, Mr Pastor, we agree more than what you have said, but it is that what is giving the bad image is, from a radical defense that I believe we do from our political group of public education and quality that it also has, of course, the bad image is not to make the margin of improvement that it has, it is not to apply the plan of works as it has to be applied, it is to have the working conditions (that we are not talking about wages, but about working conditions) of teachers and teachers and of the rest of the staff... And the conflictivity thing, then, good. You may know more than I do about dialectics, but without mobilization there is no pressure on the government, there is no negotiation with the government, and absolutely nothing is started, at least to a government like we have in recent years. And as for the claim, it's not an individual issue. At the last press conference they gave at least four of the unions they are convoking, of twelve demands that they made in that press conference exclusively an era of wages, which is what we usually go to when we talk about issues of an individual nature. Because the rest are issues that affect educational quality, such as the subject of substitutions, the subject of OPEs, the subject of ratios, the subject of financing, the subject of Heziberri, etc. I mean, there was only one claim we could call salary. And, Mrs Berriozabal, obviously nothing is random. I mean, each group has its own strategy. In this case Bildu has decided to present today, we support that claim, and without any shame and, come on, face to face. And the principle of reality to which you refer... Obviously, there is a principle of reality that the Government has – as it said the other day in the committee –; there is another principle of reality that has at least the entire union part of public education, which is a few thousand Basque workers, citizens and citizens; a principle of reality that also has the educational community, represented, for example, by the association of mothers and fathers in public school, and another that has the Government. I mean, there's not just a principle of reality. And we, then, yes, look, we agree with the principle of reality that the trade union side has and that it has, for example, the representation of the parents of the public school. And as for whether it comes late or not, and it also referred to the initiative that our group presented last week... As far as I know, last week it was not, and it is not yet (now the deadline for amendments is over)..., the budget was not approved. I think it was a good time for a debate. Well, if they had agreed in advance the agreement with the People's Party, before Thursday last week, which, for what it is in the media and for yesterday's photo, seems to be not, but if there's something that they haven't counted, then they have the opportunity to tell it now. But the initiatives come to the fore when the budgets are being debated and the budgets in this House are going to be discussed. Without further ado, I repeat that we will support the proposal. We support, of course, the demands made by the unions. And we don't come here to defend the unions and the social side, because it's already defending itself and it's defending itself right now on the street. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u93	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Now that the dispute has ended, we will vote the original text of the other proposal by the law of the EHG. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 27; the opposites, 46; white; 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u94	So, not allowed original text. Next, we'll vote for the Esquila Popular Group, the Basque Socialists, and the Middle Amendors who have signed the media. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters, 46; rivals, 27; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-30.u95	So it's accepted to the half-correction. Next, I have two constitutional expressions, and I shall pass on to read them. He's a Basque with the right our people have for universal access. "On December 4th of 1997 the Basque Act admitted unanimously that the 20/1987 law to promote access to the locality, public sites, buildings, means and media, all these services were used and enjoyed in autonomous fashion. "This law was the result of the cooperation of the institutions which represented the persons who represent the public institutions of the Basques and the people who possess an independence, and of all the agents responsible for the means of access. And it was a fundamental boundary, which gave occasion to overthrow the policy of building and building affairs, and to give Eucade another legal experiment, directed to remuneration as the right of all the citizens. "The further development of this standard, especially through Decree 68/2000 of 11 April, approving technical standards on accessibility conditions in urban environments, public spaces, buildings and information and communication systems, and Decree 126/2001 of 10 July, approving technical standards on accessibility conditions in transport, contributed to progress in achieving products, goods, environments and services for all people. "The United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, fully implemented and in force as part of our legal system since its ratification in 2008, places universal accessibility in the field of human rights and as a condition for them to live independently and participate fully in all aspects of life. "However, after twenty years, many people in Euskadi are still not guaranteed their right to participate fully and equally in political, economic, social, educational, labour and cultural life, due to the absence of conditions of universal accessibility in products, goods, environments and services, generating situations of exclusion and social inequality. "That is why the Basque Act accepts this institutional expression, the 20th anniversary of accepting the 4th of December to Sussability the 20/1997 Act. "One, the Eusunian law does exactly the value of universal access as the fundamental right of all the citizens of Esscal, who contributes to the equality of all persons, and engages in the legislation, in order to introduce and demand the inclusibility of the Basque society in all its functions and enterprises. In like manner, it is a compromise to public administrations, to public and private agents, and to bring all the principles and values of this expression into society of eussa, in order to enable them to promote the general reach. "Two, the Basque law calls the public and private institutions, and all the agents who contribute access to their access and to their measurements, to ensure the social structure of the Euscal society and the equality of all the individuals as essential elements of their choice. "Three of them, the Basque law calls public and private institutions, and all the agents who contribute to promote access and to the degree, to encourage them to promote the universal inability to promote economic resources which are necessary for this purpose. "Four, the Basque Parliament calls on public institutions to address a strategy to promote universal accessibility, and in particular the Basque Government to lead and promote this initiative; a strategy that, based on a situational diagnosis and a cross-cutting approach, establishes, in collaboration with the entities of the third social sector, in particular with the entities representing persons with disabilities, the objectives and measures necessary to advance the guarantee of the right to universal accessibility. "The Basque Parliament urges public institutions to ensure full and effective compliance with Act No. 20/1997 of 4 December 1997 for the promotion of accessibility and its development standards, as well as to carry out an assessment and updating of the aspects that will enable progress to be made in the strict guarantee of the principle of universal accessibility. "Six, the Basque Parliament urges public institutions to improve the availability of accessibility data, also by promoting research and evaluation policies that contribute to the availability of real and up-to-date indicators and information for the effective design and monitoring of policies and measures to promote universal accessibility. "Seven, the Basque Parliament urges public and private institutions to ensure the effective and effective participation of the third social sector representing persons with disabilities in the design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of public policies and action lines aimed at promoting universal accessibility. "Eightly, the Basque law demands that they should be encouraged in education, in employment, in public function, and in all systems of public responsibility, to acquire and develop knowledge and to assist all men in dispersing such values as encourage universal access and helping them to practice. "On the other hand, the US Act requires public and private institutions which have jurisdiction in the area of innovation and investigation, and even those who have jurisdiction in technology, let them stake for the sake of grafting and dissecting universal access to all men, their policies, measurements, and projects designed, following, and evaluating them as a fundamental axis." Second expression: The Eusual Functional Expression of the Basque Act for the International Day against AIDS. "Euskadin lives at the present day more than 7,000 people who have the GIB/hies. Every year, there's about 160 new infections, that is, another infection every two days. "In the last two decades the anti-retroversal treatment has had a tremendous indication of progress. Thanks to these treatments, people who have just received a virus have a chance of having a good life quality, and a hope of life like that of people who have no children. The efficiency of these treatments enables the diagnosis of these 160 people to be very far from what they had since the 80th birthdays. This death penalty for many people has now become chronic infection. With this virus there may be a good quality of life, and it is calculated that there is a hope of life like that of the non-hiest people. Trats make it possible for people who have the GIB/hies to come into undetectable cargo. This state, in addition to a great degree of health, produces an impossibility in transmitting the virus to other people. "So it is plain that one of the goals to attain is early diagnosis of this infection and of others connected with it. "While the treatments and clinical scope of HIV/AIDS have evolved as in any other disease, fear, stigma and discrimination are all around these 7,000 people living in Euskadi and the new infections that are currently occurring in our society. The scientific and social fields have not evolved at the same pace. "The Basque Parliament renews its commitment to the HIV/AIDS epidemic, and in particular to the elimination of all those barriers that can promote stigma, discrimination and exclusion of people with HIV/AIDS from the enjoyment of the fundamental rights set out in the Constitution. "People with HIV/AIDS face numerous social and legal problems, arising from the confusing rating of the infection, which continues to be considered contagious when it comes to a communicable infection. This outdated rating has an impact on all areas of life of people with HIV/AIDS, operating as a barrier to access to the exercise of rights and freedoms, and has harmful practical consequences in many areas, such as access to public service, especially Ertzaintza, State security bodies and forces and the armed forces; limitations on the right to work, especially in the health professions that carry out invasive procedures; exclusions in the recruitment of health or life insurance; denials of services offered to the general public; interferences in their personal privacy and personal data; difficulty in exercising the right to adopt, receive or have custody of a minor, for example. "These jurists are difficult or difficult to prevent the equality of freedom and choice from being real, and to actually integrate with the people who have the HIV/Hies of political, economic, cultural, and social life the 14th of the Constitution. and as the Articles 9.2. "In answer to all this, the Basque parliament demands that the cataloging of the HIV/hies should be altered from the infecto-skullity of "infecto-transmitating" in the salient legality of Spain. "In the same Ildu, encourages the removal of laws, regulations, and clauses, which may be discriminating by discriminating laws, and clauses, in the law of force, in order to ensure future policy and regulations and scientific evidence. "It takes a contest to enable the active and normalized participation of people with GIB/hies." It's just that, since we've exhausted the list of subjects, I put an end to the whole meeting. [[Applause]] It was two and thirty-five in the afternoon.
