ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting in a minute's silence, in honor of Gregor Ordóñez. [[Silent]] Before we start, I'll say the eighth point is left for another. First point in theme list: "The bill of law made by the Parlamentarian Society, Tribunal Vasco de Cuens de Cuenstas Públicas/ to change the 1/1988 law of the Euscalal Court. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the papers where you're parted from, so we don't read it, we're going to argue. You know there's an upcoming shift here and a two-way shift. On the side side side, apart from the Popular Party, who wants to be a part of it? So together, Podemos and Popular Party, you'll have 15 minutes. Mr. Sémper, your word is for defending the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u1	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Egun where you're going. Mr. Lehendakari, counselors. I rise to this rostrum, with a brief claim, to defend the processing, the admission of the proposed law amending the Basque Court of Auditors. I have to start, ladies and gentlemen, recognizing that this initiative originated there in June 2015, specifically two days after the election of Mr José Luis Bilbao, then deputy general of Bizkaia, elected those days, as I say, as President of the Court of Auditors. Successive delays in the processing of this bill, I insist, of just two articles, prevented it from being processed and approved, if any, in the past legislature, but today, in this legislature, it is still timely and, in our view, the amendment proposed by the court is still necessary. Our stated objective, and I believe that it is widely shared, regardless of certain ideological or political positions, but the stated objective – as I say to you – is to contribute to building confidence in the institutions. It is a contribution to generating and regaining, better said, also credibility and independence in the oversight bodies of the public accounts. Because we are fully convinced, and we know that this conviction is shared by a broad representation of this House, that the Basque Court of Public Accounts, its Presidency and its Members..., that exercising its presidency and being vocal cannot in any case be an award for a political trajectory, however laudable it has been, nor can it be a sort of early retirement. We cannot change the past, we can probably no longer rectify mistakes of the past, but we can contribute among all to correcting and failing to make those mistakes again in the future. Because, in a way of shared reflection with you, perhaps certain practices, which in the recent past were harmless, are practices that today generate a lack of credibility in the institutions, or, in any case, generate political controversy and generate a debate that should be alien to the institutions or, in any case, the oversight bodies of the public accounts of the institutions. It is about providing objectivity, credibility and certainty. It is certain that whoever is entrusted with the control of public accounts will act independently and will act with strictly technical criteria when assessing what we do with the money of the citizens who are entrusted with its management. That is why we believe that those who are members of the Basque Court of Public Accounts, whether in their presidency or by holding one of their vowels, should have the exclusive mentality of technical advisers and should be guided by strictly technical and non-political criteria. Not because you've been in politics, not because you've held a position of political responsibility, but because you lose the capacity for objective analysis, that's true. But having been in politics and having held an important political responsibility will agree with me that it reduces credibility, or at least projects a shadow of suspicion about some decisions that can be made by supervisory bodies. And especially if this political activity has developed in a short space of time with regard to the appointment of someone as a member of that oversight body. That is why the reports issued by the Basque Court of Auditors, like any other supervisory body, must be independent – this is something we certainly agree on – and must also have the appearance of credibility and independence. Besides being, they also have to look like it. Those who have intervened on income and expenditure, or those who have had political responsibility for income and expenditure, will hardly have credibility in controlling, in controlling their own decisions, or the decisions of their own co-religionaries. That is why the approach of this proposal of law – and I am now finishing – of just two articles, what it seeks to harden, will be able to say some, but in any case to extend the necessary time for this transition from policy to control and control posts, with the stated objective – I insist – of providing credibility and among all being able to improve the activity, image, professionalism and, in any case, the correctness of the supervisory bodies. That is why we are asking this House to vote in favour of this proposed law, in the hope that in its subsequent procedure we will be able to incorporate the improvements that all parliamentary groups are sure to have the opportunity and desire to introduce. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u2	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Together from Podemos, Mrs. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Before I go into flour I would like to highlight, Mr Semper, the lack of inclusive language in your bill. Throughout the document mentions "deputy" of Congress, "parliamentary Basque", "sensor", "foral deputy", "advisor" of the Basque Government, "ministers", "entrepreneurs", etc., etc. They say that what is not named does not exist, and I would like to remind you that we do exist. That there are ministers, businessmen, congressmen, Basque parliamentarians... We exist, and we like to be recognized in the writings and, of course, also in the legislative proposals and in any parliamentary initiative. On 15 December we first came up to this rostrum to defend before this House that transparency must go beyond the mere publicity of administrative documents; that working for the transparency of the institutions implies, for political consistency, doing so also against the conflicts of interest of people with high offices, and ultimately against its most tearing consequence, the shift between politics and private enterprise, which has been called revolving doors. Well, the question of how people are elected as members of the Basque Court of Public Accounts, and in particular whether the parliamentary practice of their choice makes it possible to politicise them, has to do with the same face of the currency. If necessary, it still has a greater influence on the credibility of the system, since it affects the supreme supervisory body for the economic-financial and accounting activities of the Basque public sector. It has to do with the prevention of corruption, and any corruption in the public sector entails, in one way or another, harm to public coffers and the development of policies that improve people's lives. Given the importance of the issue, we in our parliamentary group are not only asking ourselves whether this initiative amending the Court of Auditors Act is necessary, which we are already making progress on, but also whether it is sufficient for the Basque Court of Public Accounts to carry out the tasks entrusted to it in accordance with the values of independence, integrity, professionalism, credibility, inclusion, cooperation and innovation which the international organisation of higher audit bodies considers essential for external control bodies. The Ocex need to be independent of the entities they audit, and must be protected against any form of external influence. It is also crucial that their audit methods are based on current technical and scientific knowledge, and that auditors have the necessary professional qualifications and moral integrity. Only external and independent government oversight, in conjunction with a professional team and methodologies, can ensure information on audit results that is impartial, reliable and objective. Therefore, in a first analysis we can conclude that this initiative is necessary, since it establishes stricter criteria aimed at ensuring greater independence and professionalism, but, although in conditions in which the organs of control and control of institutional political activity must ensure in their exercise, operation and composition an objective independence and impartiality that clears any shadow of suspicion about possible party ties or control by political parties, from Elkarrekin We believe that, in order to be a proposal for law reform, we should go a little further. For our parliamentary group, the establishment of rules so that those who are going to rule on the proper use of public resources cannot be conditioned by their previous link, whether it is because they have held any office in any of the entities that may be subject to scrutiny or if it is any other type of emotional link, as it may be, let us put the same party on a case-by-case basis, even though it is essential, does not in itself guarantee the effectiveness of the reports of the anti-corruption monitoring bodies. Intosai believes, and I quote, "Government audit allows for transparency, visibility of risk, and strong and effective internal controls to specifically contribute to the prevention of corruption." And, if of the seven values he considers central to the functioning of these control bodies the first and most important is that of independence, another of the basic values, in the opinion of this organization, is the one that focuses on the auditors themselves as the cornerstone on which they build their profession, integrity. On the basis of these two principles, professionalism and credibility are achieved through cooperation, innovation and inclusion. Another challenge facing the OECD, in order to improve transparency and control of public management, has to do with the principles to which it must adjust its action: legality, efficiency and economy, to which it has recently added gender equality, environmental sustainability and transparency. Nor does it refer to the opportunities presented by new technologies and the possibility of adapting to greater demand for and control over the time and manner in which reports are issued, since, as justice is said to be slow, excessive delay in carrying out the audit itself, as well as in the knowledge, by Parliament, the audited body or the general public, of the reports derived from it, undermines the effectiveness of these controls and therefore hinders the fight against the misuse of public resources and the common good. In addition, the incorporation of gender equality, environmental sustainability or transparency between the principles of action of the OECD would have advised thinking about a reform that also covers subjects and the objective scope of control, in order to increase operational audits and prioritise areas of risk and greater use of resources. Operational audits which, in passing, require action programmes of administrations setting costs and objectives, i.e. indicators that can be evaluated with the aim of overcoming the mere control of legality, which allow the evaluation of purchasing and contracting systems, the monitoring of revenue, the evaluation of aspects relating to instrumental entities and the rationality of decisions which, without being illegal, do not meet the purpose of the institution (opportunity control). And if we put these issues on the table, ladies and gentlemen, because in the fight against fraud and corruption, while the Ocex do not currently have the competence to impose sanctions, they do carry out important monitoring and detection work. In line with the above, we also miss the incorporation of professional profiles beyond the traditional ones of law or economy, such as architecture, urbanism, computer science, environmental sciences..., which are not expressly recognized in the proposed reform of article 15.1. Finally, we regret the missed opportunity – as is the case in the United Kingdom – to establish among the functions of the Basque Court of Public Accounts that of helping Parliament to ensure that the government guarantees the public services it is obliged to provide, as well as that of helping to save resources; savings that, by the way, are set with concrete figures in that country. Last December 15th we said that an important part of Basque society no longer puts its political representatives or the institutions that they govern in the fire. We said that a country agreement was needed so that, from the political and administrative level, all the institutions and people with high offices would be involved in this task and that we would have the most robust, credible and advanced rules, with the dual aim that citizens would regain their confidence in the institutions and that the Basque administration as a whole would make decisive progress in defending the public interest and the common good. Well, that same argument is perfectly applicable to the members of the Basque Court of Auditors, because, as Intosai says – and I quote in the text – "only audit bodies that are completely independent and professional can ensure accountability, transparency, good governance, as well as the rational use of public funds and the efficiency of anti-corruption efforts." Because "corruption is an omnipresent and global problem, threatening public finances, the legal order, social prosperity, endangering social security, and preventing poverty reduction." As a result, our parliamentary group is going to support the process of amending the law presented by the People's Party group, although we understand that it is not ambitious enough and misses the opportunity to enter into further reform. Because perhaps – at least that impression gives us – at the bottom of this initiative only underlies the imperative need for a washing of the face of the party to which you, Mr Semper, belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. No one will be involved in the reverse shift... Then we'll take the turn to answer it. Mr. Sémper. Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u5	Yeah. With your permission, Mrs. President, from the seat. I want to thank Elkarrekin for his support We can process the initiative, the points of coincidence. And in what we do not agree or in the deficiencies detected we will have the opportunity to speak in the processing itself. Anyway, allow me, Mrs. Arana, to tell you one thing in relation... I understand that in the end in some interventions, then, you have to end up putting your finger in the eye, but sometimes that finger in the eye is unwarranted and unfair, and I have to tell you. Look, we don't have to wash our faces of anything. This political party that I am representing right now, and the rest of the Members of Parliament, we can go with a very high head in relation to our commitment to Basque society, to the citizens who voted for us and to those who did not vote for us, and, of course, to the honest and honest exercise of politics. I hope that you, after a few years, can also say the same thing and go with your head just as high. I hope so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u6	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Ms. Arana, would you like to participate in the answering shift? No? The debate is ended, whether the legal proposition is considered in relation to the vote or not. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters are 74; the opponents are 0; the whites are 1. The abstainments are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u7	So it's agreed to consider the law's proposal. We'll go next to the vote. PSE. Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u8	Good morning, everyone. The Socialists, today as they were a year and a half ago, consider it opportune to address the reform not only of this law, but of those which affect the bodies which depend on this Parliament, which are accountable to it and to the citizens, and that is the fundamental reason why we voted in favour of opening this debate, which had remained pending in the previous parliamentary term. We will not enter today, because it does not correspond to the exact contents of the proposal. We're on a lookout. What is beginning today is a parliamentary path which should not be too long in time and which we hope will culminate in long-distance agreements, since the majority of whom we are already reflecting our opinion in the form of amendments to the two proposals that were put forward at the time for the reform of the law governing the Basque Court of Public Accounts. What we do see, and we are glad, is that the People's Party has corrected the fundamental burden of the initiative it has brought before, and that, curiously, it also coincided with the pretensions with which EH Bildu brought his own in its time. Because they both understood that this of the plurality and professionalism of the bodies designated by this House was a question of party quotas, when what we said was that the question was how to respond to how the functioning of the court can be improved, how we can avoid conflicts of interest or shadows of suspicion, and how we adapt this body to the demands of the citizens of this century. We are talking about the Court of Auditors, which is responsible for supervising public administrations, and we will all agree on the need to strengthen the conditions of impartiality, experience and technical knowledge of its members. Which doesn't mean demanding political asepticism. We all have a way of thinking, not just politicians. The judges, the cops, the doctors, the teachers... What is required of those entrusted with the public service of justice, security, health or education is that they exercise their functions without being conditioned by their proximity or association with any party. That is what we said in his day, and we see that the People's Party has introduced that correction. We also welcome the fact that this debate can take place without urgency, because it will not be up to this House to elect the next Court of Auditors, which will fulfil its mandate when we have finished ours, and that neither will it be made to the warmth of candidates who like each other more or less. Because opportunistic debates on substantive issues sometimes change our speeches to groups. And that of the Socialists is clear: we want to update the institutions, we want to update them, and not continue acting out of inertia of norms that two or three decades ago had one meaning and that today have another. This is something that should also be understood by those who are incorporated into political life, because we admit failures in our regulations, but in their day these regulations made sense, and what is right at the moment is to update them. In this house, in this House we have been taking steps. I have remembered it, and one of those who have preceded me has also done so. In the last parliamentary term we approved, at the request of the Socialist Group, a law on incompatibilities and conflict of interests which is very demanding with those who hold public office. It is a law designed to eliminate suspicions about political activity, but it does not want to make those who exercise political activity, politicians, suspects. Now we have the opportunity to remove shadows of doubt about the supervisory court, but without blaming those who have done this work. Here the question is that citizens demand us to be effective, that they want to have confidence in their institutions, in the management, in the provision of services and in the attention that is given, and also in how the accounts of the different administrations are monitored, that this is the role that the Basque Court of Public Accounts has. Let us go and devote ourselves to this, and not to other issues.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. From EH Collect, Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u10	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, Mr. President. The Court of Public Courts ought to perform an important function, because it belongs to the public administration, to examine or verify whether public institutions use public money in a proper manner, and if they do not do so, to denounce it at its own time. Who will examine the Fortu Alddudia of Bisca, if Joseph Luis Bilbao passes from morning to night to the president of that court? Is it allowed to put a fox on the chicken house? In that context where these questions were established, the Chamber was discussed during the preceding law in the June of 2015. Though it's a deeper debate, in that context, that this discussion of the Chamber was made, and in that sense it presented the legal proposal of the Basque People to demand the modification of the People's Law in the State of the State of the People of 1988. Two days before the Party, Mr. Sémper forgot to describe it. The Basque People, because we thought that the affair was deeper, I repeat, though the title of Esquire Joseph Louis Bilbaus was in the same position opposed to the credibility of that court, and we believe that this is a matter of credibility. This legal proposition, which we introduced, mainly proposed two changes. One, regulating the selection process or specifying more: conflicto de interest, quotas... We think that's a lot more to be defined. And we believe, yes or no, that the State Court ought to maintain a certain proportion or some consistency with the correlation in this Chamber. We think we should avoid that. It is especially necessary that negotiations between parties should be avoided which are made according to the divisional interests. Avoid the appointment of court members on the basis of party interests or in exchange for other appointments in other areas. I would remind Mrs Castelo, or Mr Pastor, who is leaving the Chamber at this time: José Luis Bilbao, in exchange for the deputy of the Ararteko. That is the change of chromosomes that was made in the previous legislature. It was therefore in order to avoid such moves as this to determine more of the selection process in our legal proposition. José Luis Bilbao... "Tugar el sapo de José Luis Bilbao, el Partado Sociista, a cabio de un puesto de la adjunta del Arli." The second key, which we established in the bill of law, was to establish a time of cavalcade before we became members of the court to those who had political care. We proposed two years, but from now on we'll have a chance to determine whether there are two, whether four, or whatever time it takes. The thread of this legal proposition was followed by PPrene, and PP was accepted. Then came a decision from the table, where the two texts were said to be combined, which took some time, and so ended the law, and we saw that we had no time to carry on the modification of this law and to execute it. Therefore we have not proposed any proposals at this time, especially that we may gain time, and that we may be as soon as possible at the commission, and that each of us may receive his proposals and his adaptations. That's why we agreed on the vote to the law proposition of the Popula Party, and we think we should be able to modify it in this legislation. "To break the obscene walkways between politics and control," Mrs Quiroga came to say in that plenary. Hori ere izan behar da lege honen helburuetako bat, independent, objektiboa éta profesional den herri-kontuen epaitegi bat nahi baldin badugu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u11	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Eubertarians represent the team. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u12	Thank you. And good morning, Mr. congressman. Good morning, President, chief officers. Good morning, everyone. The eubertarian group voted in favor of the debate, the way we agreed on the previous law. And we have voted in favour despite the fact that there are two issues that are of great concern to us. One the object, the other the subject. The subject of this proposal for a law draws much attention: that precisely who in the Court of Auditors of the State has an ex-minister, Mariscal de Gante; that precisely who appoints a FAES patron for the Court of Auditors, who has an ex-advisor of Valencia in the Provincial Court of Valencia, as president..., and we could talk about the Constitutional Court, and we could talk about the General Council of the Judiciary, present this initiative. It also draws our attention to the subject matter, the substance of the matter. Because, having mediated so little time, as has actually been said here, since the presentation of the initiative before this initiative (just over a year), the reasons and requirements set out and the reasons for ineligibility are radically different. It also draws much attention to the subject, who, having presented this here and having had an important absolute majority over the last four years that gave them complete autonomy of decision in Madrid, have not done so in the State as well. That's what we're going to do. We're going to make a positive rating on the Basque Court of the People. It's been twenty-nine years since this law was passed, and during the 29 years of this legislature no one has doubted about this matter, and 550 reports have been introduced by the People's Court, 550. During the thirty-nine years, all political parties have appointed representatives of political perfil to the Basque Court of the People. But why did this conflict arise during the previous law? I'm in medicine with P.P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P.O.s. But not because they were honest who introduced the initiative. I've explained some, and others were looking for more quotas. When they defended themselves here, they said that the political representation should be better represented in the City Court, which is a contradiction. It is merely a contradiction to say that he ought not to have political inculgations, but that he ought to have a political representation in it. Then let's discuss the attitudes, the reasons, and the motives. We've all said it, they've been introduced to a different political profile. And all the candidates we have been running from the Eucan Abertist have had an extensive formation, with all the necessary conditions, and a tremendous professional experience. All of them. And Bilbo...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u13	Excuse me, Miss Gorose. I want to remind you that we're in the vote and not argue. Please. Nobody's getting involved.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u14	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. The court's independence process guarantees that. The parliamentary groups which we are represented in this legislature require to be judged by whom we please. He guarantees that the judge advocates are professionals. The President and the Council chooses them democraticly because they are chosen by an absolute majority, because they have a system to guarantee control and guarantee guarantees. What they need is to put the resources on it. We got a job done. We used to say in our enterprises: to say when one must be abscession, and when one ought to be rejected, and the other a political portunism. In any case, we say that our intention is to improve this law as far as possible. That's why we're ready to talk. And we hope that the changes we make may be made with a large political agreement, and that they may really be for the public good, and not for political damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Second point on the subject list: "H Collect the legal proposition made by the parliamentary team, about the election of December 3d of Basque Day. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the documentation where you're being disqualified. And we're just going to argue. We've got side shifts and counter shifts here too. In turn, besides EH Collector, together Podemos. The rest, explicacion de voto. Mr. Urizar from EH Union, your word is yours. Oh, and the other side.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u16	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. It was strange that PP shouldn't say anything against it, but good. We come again with this subject, for the first time in this law. Let's hope it's the last thing, because the other day was the day of the Basques, or the day of this Errod, or the occasion of the subject. For the first time, in the initiative of EH Collect, we introduced an interpelation to the Roller of the Rollies, in order that the day of the 25th of October, the feast of October, should be suspended, and the answer was no. It seems we didn't have an alternative, and since we didn't have an alternative, that was a problem. So we introduced a motive, where we proposed an alternative, but there was no will for an understanding. On the third day, EAJ brought it. EAJ brought it with a legal proposal to cancel the 25th of October. Ardius, the same. Then, yes, he went on, at least he was aware of it, and went to the end. The political will had been at that time, and it was clear that there was no new argument that political will should be abandoned by the 25th of October. We did something else. What we did at first was, as I was asked to say, an alternative. As a matter of fact, we thought we were losing a chance. And we think that then we lost the opportunity to establish a holiday that might serve to unite society. We didn't make it. And it's been three years since then, and what's happened is that this holiday has been worth two things: or to fill up the gaps in the work calendar, or for the homage of all the events which occur to the Government during the year. For us, the day must be beyond that value. And that's why three years later we're back. And this time with a legal proposition and a clear proposition: Let's make it a day for the 3rd of December, for two main reasons. First, we know that the Basque Country and this member are many, and that we live different things; those who dwell on the coast, or those who dwell in the mountains, or in Abar Errioxus, each of them has a different reality, and in the end the environment and the difference of its culture. But we know that we have a great patrimony which is superior to all these differences, and for us this patrimony is for us an inheritance. It is for us the first symbol symbol symbol symbol symbol symbol symbol symbol symbol symbol symbol symbol symbol symbol symbol symbol symbol symbolizes the unity of the Basques. I'm not going in because I don't think of any deep ratings now, of the impeachments and bars in history, or of the role of the eucalyptus. But what is clear is, that the principal cultural and historical domain is eucalyco, the chief symbol symbol symbol symbol symbol symbol symbol symbol symbol symbol symbol symbol symbol symbolizing the union of the citizens of Essscal, and therefore we believe that it is quite impossible that the international day of Euscara should be the international day of the Euscara. But there is another condition, and the condition of the euphoria itself is another condition. The Euskar, as I have said, has received many threats in the past, and has been on the point of disappearing in the past, and, though it is not so happily now, yet, unfortunately, it must still be protected. It's not us, EH Bilri, it's something we're thinking of. The same December of the year before, he put it into the world-wide map of languages between threatening languages. It's an objective data. The Basque can be better than it was in the past, but he still has a lot to do with a normalized situation. On the other day Mönno remarked to me that at the University of the Basque Country there is always a subject of discussion determined by the conditions of study, but that there is no doubt about a line of study-that is to say, of Euscal Philology. And they have it clear that, even if they're only a student, they have to keep it. Why? Because it's our own Euskara, because we have our own, and keep it, so it's ours to take care of it and break it. And we think the same thing as EH Collectan. Because we love him, but because we want him to put the cradle on the first line. Let it be a language to extract from that species of circumscribed languages, and to live properly. That's all, very simple. But that's why we think it's time to put it in value and use all the tools in our hands to put it into value. So that's why we think it's perfect, the 3rd of December, the international day of the Basque War, may be the official holiday of this member. And I'm not going to prolong it any longer, because it's just a proposition to consider it. I hope that the entire hemic cycle is secured, because we have heard more than once from all the groups here, that the eucalyptus is the property of all the rest, and that it is necessary to protect ourselves to the rescue. So, I think in a normal way... And I'll thank you for every vote we've made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u17	Thank you, Mr. Urizar. Martínez Hiron, together from Podemos.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u18	Good morning, ma'am, Congressman. As clear as it is, we will vote for the tramitation of this legal proposition. I'm not going to be around this for long, though there's so many reasons for taking advantage of the treason and the law's content, that we need only one reason to explain it. In the first place, it is time, in the opinion of Podemos, to end the political game which is played with the feasting of the Basque people, to end the foolish pomics, and finish the use of this holiday. We have to listen to the same argument every year, often the same argument, just at the moment when it's time for fun to settle the date of this day, and it's time for us to get to harmony around this day. We've got a big chance here to get this big shot with a reasonable proposal, an international Euscara Day. Euscany is what makes us Basque, and the Basque Country is also called the people of Euscha. This being so, it is certainly our most precious treasure, which we share with all the Basques, although sometimes we do not possess the value of this treasure. And as a people, it is also one of the essential columns of our personality. Basque is not just language, it's nationality too. However, the eucalyca needs our help. That's why the Basque Country is in our hands in the future to be Basque. Euskar deserves a proclamation, and the third of December, the International Day of Euscara, the day of euscal society, the day of becoming a holiday, we believe it serves to give another impulse to our language. Although some parties have used it in a severe manner, for example, in the last campaign, for their political advantage, it is certain that the defence of the eucalyptus is an premise which has a complete consent in society. Considering this agreement as its basis, if we name the 3nd of December the Euscadian day, we shall have a day of Euskalcan, all of us Basques, and thus we shall be able to solve once for all the historical deficiency of Euskaki. Therefore, as to what has been said, we will go on for the tramitation. And we can also see the proposal of the Basque Day. In our Autonomical reunion, there's a holiday from the start, and there's not a Basque day to be found. We think we should take advantage of the agreement that lies around the Basque Sea and strengthen it by becoming the day of the Eusco. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u19	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. We'll go to the opposite round. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Urizar, understand the meaning of this intervention and the use of the vote against – and although it sounds strange to say this – not because it is against the procedure, which seems to us good, we think it is appropriate that this initiative be conducted and that we may have an opportunity to discuss it perhaps more calmly. But if I had used... Sometimes one has to make decisions on how to do so, and we have believed that the best way to express our political position, of course already known, but in favour of processing, even if we are going to vote against, and, above all, not to use the point of explanation of vote in order not to incur the mistakes of Mrs Gorospe, who is messing with someone and then there is no chance of defeating him. So, I'd rather use this shift so that, if there's something that doesn't seem reasonable to you, you have a chance to knock it off. In any case, we are in a debate whose arguments we know. We have discussed it in the last legislature extensively, and on numerous occasions, and we are probably in the debate of the disencounter, in which there are particular positions, absolutely legitimate, absolutely reasonable and, as I say, archiplicated, but which ultimately lead us to where we were: in a disencounter that is probably a political disencounter, no doubt, but also based on the disencounter of symbols, or on what symbols we believe can best represent us or can best represent this political community. The Basque is an evidence that represents us Basques, which is part of our cultural heritage and is one of the fundamental signs of identity, not to mention the most important one we have. It is probably the greatest of the singularities that we can offer to the world and of which we are gifted. And it is a reason for celebration, a reason for pride and a reason, no doubt, for union between the Basques. And I told him in the past legislature what a motive for union, celebration and union because it is the heritage of those who speak it and of those who do not. And I think this is something that we also have to try to expand, try to share: the Basque, of course, is the heritage of the Basques as a whole, have the luck or the fortune to speak it or, under very varied circumstances, do not have that luck and that fortune. It's everyone's heritage. But, in any case, the reality is that this debate takes on a leading role from 2010, namely April 2010, because until then it had not been among the concerns of the political parties represented in this House. The celebration, as such, of a Day of Euskadi had not been part of our agenda. No one's, probably. Basque nationalism had its own particular celebration, full of symbolism but particular and part, and what is being attempted from April 2010 is to establish a date that unites us all around a democratic decision, a decision endorsed by a crushing majority of Basques, which forms our Autonomous Community for the first time in its history as a political subject, which is the adoption of the Gernika Statute of Autonomy. On which there are opinions – and this we will have the opportunity to see over the morning and we have heard it over the last few years – opposed, on their fulfillment, their development, there are particular opinions, but what is an objective reality is that for the first time in our history there is a political document that sets us up as a society, politically speaking. It is the first time in our history that democratic institutions have been articulated to represent Euskadi in a democratic way, voted in a referendum by citizens. Statute of Autonomy from which the legitimacy of this Parliament derives, from the fact that today we can be debating these issues. Statute of Autonomy that you, Mr Urizar, like me, gives us the legitimacy to sit here, and that gives this Parliament powers as never before in the history of Euskadi we had, a level of self-government that we had never enjoyed in our history. A Statute of Autonomy that gives legitimacy to this Parliament, to the lehendakari, to the laws that we possess. In short, a Statute of Autonomy that today still seems to us worthy of being recognized as a meeting point. A meeting point based also on resignations; a meeting point of a heterogeneous, diverse, plural society, this in its positive sense. And, in its less positive sense, a society also faced in politics, symbols and feelings. A Statute of Autonomy which, on the basis of these resignations, obtains a point of agreement and a point of understanding endorsed by the Basques. And it seems to us that, as a political community, regardless of the particular views that we have with regard to the future of this political community, it seems to us that it is an event worthy of being remembered and worthy of being commemorated. Therefore, ours is not a no to Euskera Day as Euskadi Day, but it is a yes to an alternative, to a position that we believe has a different political relevance and that it is the one that deserves to be recognized and remembered. This is the political position that we have defended in the past, and it is the one that we will continue to defend also in the process of the present proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u21	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Passing on the answers, Mr. Urizar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u22	With your permission, Madame the head of the table. Mr. Sémper, first of all, it's true that Euska is the inheritance of all the people of the Basque Country. I think it is an universal patrimony, and therefore it is all our business to get it out of the languages which are in danger of that map which I have first discussed. I'd give you a tip. In the Eustaia there is no genus problem; if you use euca, you don't have that debat. We have a recommendation to use it. There are many others, but that's one. Undoubtedly there are different points of view here. It's true that property belongs to everyone. I believe that the whole Chamber accepts the common point of all. He's not the state of Guernica. It's not the state of Guernica, and I'll tell you that the party I represent was at first on the side of Hadadno how it was our creator, but a vast majority said that it was no longer accomplished and that it was necessary to overcome it. And we are not able to overcome it from that time; there are other things which hinder the will to overcome, because there are some interests from Madrid. It may therefore be a point of compact, but it is a more important point of compact for us, because our principal nature has been, and will be in later ages, if either our own or our efforts serve us. It may be the next state, or may be the state; they may be different stages, but for us it is more common, and it is our principal point. So that's why we bring him here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u23	Thank you, Mr. Urizar. Mr Martínnez... ? Mr. Sémper? Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u24	Labur-labur, president andrea. An argument that has been passed on to me before, and that as a result of listening to you... Well, it's not that I missed it; it occurred to me as a result of listening to you, although on some occasion I had also thought about it. Look, as a reflection, and believe me that serene and constructive, I have serious doubts, understanding that your proposal has a white interest (which coincides with Navarra has nothing to do with it, and I am convinced), I believe that the suitability of having a specific day for the Basque, the International Day of the Basque, could be tarnished or covered by the celebration of Euskadi. I believe, we believe, I have the feeling that the euskera as such deserves a specific day, only for the celebration of the euskera and only for that. I think you decide that December 3rd is also Euskadi Day you will share with me that it will end Euskera Day, because it will be covered by Euskadi Day. It's something I think we can think about, for sure, in the processing itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u25	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote whether the legal proposition is considered or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of the league, 29; the contrary, 17; the whites, 0; Abstations, 28.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u26	So it's agreed to consider the law's proposal. Then we'll give the chance to vote. Social party. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u27	Madame President, Mr. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. There are issues that simply by being repetitive are becoming customary. Some even end up becoming a kind of tradition, and this is a very clear example of it. Euskadi does not have today a day that commemorates its existence, its raison d'être as a political community; instead, it has a tradition that over time is becoming a whole icon for some political parties: the debate on the establishment of the Day of Euskadi. Ladies and gentlemen, I am new to this House, as new as the newer one, and yet this debate is old to me, it is recurrent to me. It's like a running tape, which looks like you're moving on, but you're always in the same place. And the legislatures pass and this same debate returns, and yet we do not move forward, it never changes anything. Ojo, this does not mean that we do not see the need to share one day, to celebrate it, as we also share a common project as a society. This time EHGGGGE proposes to celebrate Eukadi's Day on the Basque Day with this legal proposition. And you'll excuse me, but we think it's a little bit of a benefit to the Euscadi Day of Euskade and its great day. Does the Basque Union join us? Of course, we of the Basques, and also those who have tried to learn to resist, and even if they were rebels, they put their children into the D model. The Basque is an important part of our culture, our character, and our personality, but it's not the whole. We believe that celebrating Euscaria's Day and the Basque Day is to diminish the effect of the Basque Day in the same day. I should say more and more: We believe that to celebrate the day of Euscara and the day of Eucharadia is to reduce the inheritance of the Basques to the Basques in the same day. However, if the real reason is the search for a joint celebration, or that coincides with that of the Foral Community of Navarre, I fully understand the chance and causality of wanting to coincide Euskera Day with Euskadi Day. But do not trap the lonely, because there is a question of sanctity, and not a question of coincidence with the Day of the Euskera. The Basque Socialists believe that a commemoration such as the Day of Euskadi requires a broad consensus, a broad agreement between different people, that precisely puts the emphasis on what unites us, on what coincides. We even recognized when we debated in this very House, by the mouth of Jesus Eguiguren, in 2010, that there was no consensus around October 25th. And we do not believe that the best alternative is to propitiate a new date that represents half plus one of this House, so that in a few years another half plus one will change the date of that day again. That's why we bet to find a new nexus that truly unites us all. Ladies and gentlemen, we have shown our express commitment to subject to the judgment of the citizens what we all here are capable of agreeing on, that new status of autonomy that unites us and that separates us from divisions, from confrontations. A process and objective that will be possible if we all assume, in addition to our wills, the wills of others, and the guarantee that everything we decide will pass by respecting the existing legal order. That process should end in a referendum, and it will be in that referendum where Basque citizenship supports and approves the dialogue and pact effort that we are able to work among ourselves. And that can be an extraordinary reason to celebrate. To celebrate the union, the nexus of what unites us, as Euskadi Day. The other day I was listening to a member of the proposer group set as a temporary target to have that text, that new status of autonomy, on October 25, 2019. Let's see if it's going to be a coincidence that we end up celebrating Euskadi Day on October 25th! I'm finishing up. We understand that the best solution is to find a new nexus that is indisputable to us; in the meantime, it seems to us good that, for example, we continue to celebrate, marking in red, even if it is not an official feast on the calendar, the memory of the first time that the Basques, nationalists and non-nationalists, socialists, anarchists, republicans, abertzales, have joined together to collaborate, despite being people of very different tradition, in the common task of justice, the protection of Basques and Basques; of a work shared between different that sat the stone of the public university, of health care...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u28	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u29	... of education (bai, amaitzen noa), of attention to those who were forced. It is therefore clear our position, our vote against. I hope that time, but above all our ability to agree, will bring to this country a new status of autonomy which, endorsed by citizens in the ballot box, is a cause for celebration for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u30	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u31	Good morning, everyone. With our abscession, we give the debate. How I can't argue, I'll try to make a kind of monologist. But I can clearly see that this initiative desired that he should avoid the Jestric Party of the Euricians, to create an inconvenience, to create a similar initiative, if he should be on his way to the exito, he must be shared. It must be shared, among other things, with the rest of the parliamentary groups, and also with the principal. He hasn't even exchanged a single word in this matter, but we'll have a discussion. And his testimony... If I had introduced a similar initiative here, tomorrow, or yesterday or the day before yesterday, in Navarre, I would have introduced another initiative, and also say that in Navarre there is a holiday in Navarre because it is the Basque Day. Or I don't think it would happen that some one of them would bring it here, plus the Autonomic Esscal, which is to say all the Basques of the South Basque Country, to have a holiday here in the Autonomium of Ercolo, San Francisco Javier. But that's not what happens. Xalbator says that the body is the body, the heart of language. And of course a language is the heart of a people, but a people is something else. And they also know that this people has its day, although it is not a holiday, but not an official calendar, or even a law of their own. But this initiative has another purpose. And I mean plain and clear: We will proceed to the debate, but it is the day of the Basque Day for us. It has been, and it will be. Euskadi isn't an acronym, Euskadi isn't EAE, if it's something else. And one sees what similar undertakings are trying to produce or achieve, one can see too much. I used to say, body and heart. Of course, but a people has hearts, heads, hands, feet, soul, history, will, future... Euskadi's day for us, unless the contrary is determined, is New Year's Day. We'll tie that to him all of a sudden. And perhaps some one will have to think or think about why he represents this initiative here and not in Navarre, consistency. We wish to proceed further, and act faithfully on the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u32	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Third point in theme list: "Auntarians and Basque Socialists propose as a parlamentary group, the creation of an establishment of the Eukascan auto-organization. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. The Basque Socialist has the representatives of the group to present and defend the word. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u33	Thank you, President. Without a solution of continuity, as my colleague Eneko Andueza has just pointed out, this is the turn when groups must decide whether we give a chance to find what unites us around self-government, and, if we do, ask the citizens if they endorse it, and in that case find something to celebrate in a shared way. We reopened the door of a speech that remained unfinished in the last legislature, and it is therefore true that we did not start from scratch. We began forty years ago to build the political community of Euskadi, from a commitment of different forces (nationalists, non-nationalists), and we began to reach a pact between us, the Basques, and also a pact with the rest of Spain. An agreement of political coexistence that assumed our peculiarities and also assumed solidarity, and that has undoubtedly given rise to the greatest era of progress in equality that the inhabitants of Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa have never experienced. But a long time ago, it is true, that many of us began to see that that covenant needed to be renewed. It was necessary, because a generation naturally gave rise to health, public education, Ertzaintza, the existence of EITB, RGI or the right to housing, as if they had always existed, as if they were not the result of the responsibility that we decided to assume by the Basques with the competences that we had at our disposal. Not all these rights have come here casually, as if they had come down from heaven. But above all because they believe that the current instruments do not respond to their concerns. We also saw that this pact had to be renewed because when we closed it we were not in Europe. We did not foresee that there were specific interests to defend there, nor what part of our capabilities were not stolen from us by a malevolent state, but because, after the agreement of the Basques, and of the Basques with the rest of the Spanish, we had also acquired a new pact with the rest of the Europeans. Another of the needs of the update was that a covenant born of the will between different and of the vocation of loyalty was being questioned, by action or omission, by some and by others. For the eternally dissatisfied, who believe that an agreement consists in giving you reason in everything, and also for the eternally tempted to return to point zero, the one who denied the decentralization of the State itself. Social shielding, new realities, legal certainty of decisions, all this is what we had to review and all this remains pending. Socialists believe that the cracks we can perceive cannot be used by anyone as an argument to delegitimize what we legitimately and democratically built forty years ago; what we have been defending for decades above those who wanted to destroy it. In the past legislature, extensive work was done by all groups, and we all come to our conclusions. We begin the task of seeking the connection between each one's conclusions, because we are convinced that there is a great common territory, all of whom know that the maximum positions of each one cannot be expected to be accepted as being carried by others. But it is also that a new group has been incorporated into this House in this legislature, which we do not know how it wants to make that update. They should have an opportunity to seek their views and present conclusions that seem appropriate to them. And from then on this presentation will begin the task of truth, that each one not only defends the model of his party – this is the easiest – but decides how far he wants to meet the proposals and desires of others. The position of the Socialists is well known, it is recorded in writing in this House. We believe in self-government. We were in the agreements that made it possible in 1936 and that made it possible also in 1979, and in all those that have developed public services and social rights over which we have competence. We have also been in the denunciation and in the search for alternatives to those who have wanted to curtail services, rights and competences. And we also want to be in the new agreement that adapts to the reality of the twenty-first century and to the new needs of this society. We want Euskadi's future to be based, as in the past, on a new agreement between different people to satisfy what citizens need, not what the parties need. We want a new statute that is more supportive, fairer and more useful to people; a new charter of rights and obligations that shields rights and also guarantees of plurality, that defines us as members of the same community and allows us to develop a dignified life within it. With this well-known vocation, with concrete actions that are already registered in this House, we return to these papers, also with an idea as clear as in the previous one: that what we do, the outcome of our debates, must be adapted to the current legal order. Because, honestly, no matter how much you want to raise your voice here at some point, there is no point in the efforts we can make if they lack security. They will generate frustration, yes, and it would be of no use to the citizens. And what we all have to think about is whether we go to this forum to reproduce our thesis (work void, by the way, because it will already be known by the citizens of the electoral programs of each one), or if what we do is to come to find safe tools to respond to what we are asked by those who voted for us. We are not going to be scared of any debate, nor are we going to refuse any proposals. The minutes of this Parliament account for hundreds of discussions on matters such as nation, right to decide, solidarity with Spain, relations with Navarre, historical rights, presence in Europe... Now what matters is whether these positions, known to all, can result in positions shared between different to respond to nationalists and non-nationalists who make up this community. And that these shared positions also have enough legal certainty that they are not going to be stranded in a court, and enough social certainty for the Basques to endorse it in the ballot box. If that were to happen, we would have taken a great step to regain people's confidence in the work we do who represent it. Therefore, the important thing is not to set deadlines or dates, such as some parties, by the way or unfortunately, are starting to pose already in advance, nor to make the loss dizzy. We are beginning the legislature, we have walked; what is to be verified is where we want to take each of the parties represented here. The Socialists propose the meeting point, and also follow the agreed procedures to do so, because it seems to us to be the only guarantee of the usefulness of this work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u34	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u35	The last regulation, the tenth period, as Mr. Pastor has mentioned, was formed and employed in carrying out his work. There have been different readings during this period of legislation at sufficient speed, but it is clear that at the beginning of this new legislation there is at least one work made; each political party has written on the table how each member of the community sees in the past and in the future what new principles and principles ought to be. And all the political parties which had been introduced to us in January 2016 later made a kind of essay on our parliamentary team before the end of the law. At least what could be shared after our examination of all these principles, we put it back in writing and hand over our document to all the parliamentary groups. And if you know the difference between the two parliamentary groups which we at this moment support the government, and which we all know and have even written, it is what we propose to discuss, considering all this examination, to find out the largest possible consensus, but without due consideration the most comprehensive of all propositions, viz. Every political party has a clear view of their proposal. Now we enter another time, and we think so, and we even propose it in writing. Our foundations are known, 11 bases. We think that when we have cleared up these principles and principles, we must also enlarge the sphere of participation, in order that this which is to be the source of all, may at last have the greatest part of the society. That's what we've got in our proposals. And besides, we would at least wish that before we entered Tramation and negotiation with other institutions, we should be able to question them, if we are the representatives of the people who come from the village, and if the people have enriched this project, and what the people have to say about this project. Those are our main columns. I'd say we've been looking for an arrangement in time to complete it. It shouldn't be too much trouble to say that at the time of the organization and completion of a committee, "That is what we want to do," that is, a self-organization committee or a committee of whatever it is. The completion itself, in the end, tries to put away the position of what is before it, or to approach it. And we wanted a bigger deal at the time when this power was completed, but we've reached the point where we've reached. We think that this effort has been accomplished faithfully, and the result of all this will be the result of the composition of this power in its various phases. In the end we must present a project to the people, in order that the citizens may enjoy the political will of this people by their own hands, and from this process of acting, that they may at last be respected the intentions and aspirations of the majority of the people and of the Basque population. Our purpose is this: and lastly, that either the citizen or the people shall have a promise and a decision. That's essentially what we want to discuss in order to arrange this committee, which we want to explain at the time of completion, and to repeat that there has been an effort in search of a large majority. And I dare say that we have almost succeeded in enlargement, but that it has remained there, and even with a manifest appetite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u36	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Passing over to the teams of those who were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u37	Legebiltzarburu andrea, legebiltzarkideok, today we have at the table a debate with a very clear objective: to approve the constitution of a paper that has to be the forum where all the parties can talk about everything, without limits, in relation to the self-government and updating of the political status of Euskadi, laying a minimum basis for all the political forces of this country to sit down and talk seriously, debate and, hopefully, also reach agreements. Of course, that is our strongest intention. That is why, first of all, I would like to express a small satisfaction with the agreement that we have reached with regard to the constitution of this paper in which, as an example of what will certainly be a very complex negotiation with a view to improving our self-government, we have been able to reach an agreement that sets a good precedent with regard to the further work to be done in this area, which indeed we would have liked to have been wider. It has not been possible, but, well, without any kind of drama, we are sure that there will be a chance of expanding it, any of the agreements reached in this paper. Continuing, modern democratic societies base their collective functioning on a number of fundamental agreements that regulate the basic terms of coexistence. In political terms, many of these agreements end up in legal texts, such as constitutions, but there are also alternative options that can be other kinds of rules, or even some that do not even become legal texts. In our case, in 1979, within the framework of the Constitution adopted a year earlier, we reached an agreement that was embodied, among other things, in the Statute of Gernika. An agreement that has made it possible to develop a remarkable level of self-government and that also involved a pact between different political sensitivities. However, and recognizing all the positive that this agreement has brought, it cannot be ruled out that the subsequent development of the agreement has left a whole throng of non-compliances, interpretations and reinterpretations led by all the forces that supported it, distorting in many cases the same spirit of the agreement itself. It is impossible not to look back on the one hand at LOAPA, or abusive basic laws, but also, on the other hand, to accept, for example, its use as a currency to reach agreements in other areas. Nor is it possible not to mention the impact that politically motivated violence had on the achievement of this agreement. Thus, and excused all this, today, and thirty-seven years after the adoption of an agreement that took the rank of fundamental norm, its development remains incomplete. These social pacts are born with the will to endure, but also with a limited useful life. Their survival depends on a multitude of factors, but the main one should be the will expressed by the citizenry to renew it or to equip itself with a new one. This characteristic, far from being something exceptional or dramatic, must be lived as something natural. In our case, thirty-seven years after those agreements, a new generation of Basques and Basques wants to reach a new pact that is more inclusive than the previous one, more transversal between the different national identities that make up our country, and that puts in value the correct ones, but also the mistakes of the past time. In this paper, we must address this need for citizens and politicians to renew our coexistence agreements, which is supported not only by the social, economic and institutional transformations of recent years. A very different political time has been opened than in 1979, and we need an agreement that responds to new challenges. A new time that is characterized by the demand to join the agreements of new political sensitivities and those that were left out in 1979, the closure of the cycle of violence with political motivation, a context of need for institutional regeneration, and an economic crisis that has precarioused the material bases of the majority of citizens. Therefore, opening this debate is necessarily not confined to a purely territorial status issue. It implies reaching a much broader range of social and institutional agreements. Especially because denying these other dimensions does not mean not addressing them; it simply means reserving for those who govern the implicit resolution of these issues, imposing a certain institutional architecture and a certain model of social construction. From Elkarrekin We have always been clear about what self-government means to us. We have always made it clear that self-government is not just about more or less competition. For Elkarrekin Podemos, talking about self-government also means expanding the focus beyond the territorial and putting on the table the shielding of social rights, the institutional architecture of Euskadi or the relationship of institutions with citizenship, meaning the latter talking about participation, transparency or accountability. In recent times, there have been many social and intellectual movements that have pointed to the incompatibility between social inequality and democracy. The positive formulation of this idea, which is already strongly rooted in the awareness of the citizenry, is to seek the shielding of social rights in coexistence agreements, whether these are the Constitution or a new status, in the case of what we have here today. Equality understood in a broad sense, covering both the scope of socio-economic inequality and the inequality between women and men, or of all personal options and conditions. In the last legislature, progress has been made in considering the right to housing as a subjective right. There have previously been some very significant ones, such as the popular legislative initiative promoted in 1996 by tens of thousands of Basques and Basques demanding a minimum income in cases of need. Today, as yesterday, we need to open a debate on the relevance and viability of the introduction of a basic income in Euskadi on the basis of the income guarantee income already existing, and the outcome of that debate should be included in these agreements. As well as other issues related to ensuring quality, secular and inclusive public education, or universal, comprehensive and free public health. It was quoted earlier, but a specific mention is needed of social equality between women and men, still pending today. This political principle must be enshrined in the social pact as a priority objective of the action of our institutions. Today it is necessary that reference in innovative social policies, among other issues to shield many of our achievements in our texts of higher legal rank, especially when we have seen that, taking advantage of contexts of crisis, some governments – and not only in Madrid – have tried to take away these minimums of dignity from us. As a result of the unjust management of the crisis, we are learning with considerable suffering that a democracy is of high quality when it guarantees a number of public services and social rights to its citizens. We believe that this maximum should be central to the new social and political pact that we have. Never again an Euskadi without its people. Because, in the face of the undefined proposals of new status of some who hide mere transfers of competences, Elkarrekin We want to confront an alternative proposal designed to respond to the interests and needs of the social majority. I was talking about social advancement now. Let us also talk about democratic progress. Starting from the recognition of the outstanding identity and political plurality of Basque society, from the recognition of Euskadi as a nation, and starting also from the unequivocal will to coexist between different and equals, the next natural step is to understand that the new territorial status that we achieve must have the accession of a broad social majority, and in addition to a cross-cutting majority in the identity. This is another maxim that we understand to be acceptable to all political options, if it walks by the hand of a substantive advance in the ability to decide of Basque citizenship. All of these are factors that make it possible for a proposal for a new status shared between different people not to be an insurmountable renunciation or ceiling for those who legitimately have more ambitious territorial desires, but to be a comfortable space of encounter and coexistence among all. In this sense, from Elkarrekin We can understand that in these keys and at this particular moment it is possible, and even recommendable, that we address the debate of territorial status, regardless of putting it in the classic terms that unite the conditions of state and nation. A space, a territorial status that, given the very nature of the social pacts, is not called to be immutable or to remain indefinitely, but that is the agreement to which here and now we will arrive, I hope, a generation of Basques and Basques, having taken into account the successes and mistakes of our most immediate past, starting from our plurality currently existing, without traumas and in a momentarily coexistence key. A democratic state cannot remain indifferent to the will of a territory to change its territorial status, if this will has been expressed democratically and supported by a large majority. That is why in a democratic state there must be legal channels for all political projects to be carried out. To put it another way, there is no legal ceiling on the democratically expressed will of citizens. In Elkarrekin We believe that this maxim could inspire one of the axes of the new social pact. It is about opening up the path of a substantial democratic advance for the aspirations of a social majority who wants to have the capacity to decide, regardless of the option for a hypothetical consultation. That ability to decide we place it clearly and unequivocally in a bilateral framework that through the agreement is able to respond to the will of citizens by giving guarantees to all parties. While from a strictly competitive perspective the Basque Parliament cannot enact such a law, the Basque parties can move forward in this direction and reach an agreement that offers political support to all democratic political projects present in our society, responding to the premises envisaged at the beginning. In any case, the legal implementation of this agreement could have multiple alternatives that can be discussed in the paper, always on the basis that the will of citizens and politicians must find legal support, not the other way around. Therefore, our commitment will also be to establish the mechanisms for holding a consultation in which citizens can endorse the new social pact agreed upon. Therefore, we express here our desire that this paper serve what is to be its only objective: the creation of a basis for updating our current self-government and political status, in pursuit of the shielding and the improvement of the tools that this country can and must use to improve the lives of its people and to reflect the basic democratic demands demanded by a social majority in Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u38	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u39	Thank you, Madam President. True, we have been discussing this matter, in one way or another, with one intensity or another, for a long time. Did Mr. Pastor say forty years? Well, it probably is. Probably so, because, in parallel to the economic, social and political development experienced by Euskadi over these forty years, allowed and driven by the rules of self-government of which we are democratically endowed, fundamentally the Statute of Autonomy, on a regular basis the nationalist discourse accompanied it, that economic and social development without parallel of course in the history of Euskadi, but also without parallel in relation to the rest of the autonomous communities of Spain, the Basque Nationalist Party, or the whole of the nationalists, were jealous of their interventions with a claim or a permanent complaint, I believe that the fruit of the essence of nationalism, which, if it ceases to claim, loses part of its nature and essence. So far we can all understand it from an intellectual point of view. In fact, Mr Ardanza tried it, look, Mr Ibarretxe tried it, and now it seems, although few believe it, that Mr Urkullu will try it too. But what is true is that over the last four years, with renewed intensity, we have participated in a paper created to affect us to reflect on the development of the Statute of Autonomy (that was the origin of that paper, to reflect on the development of the Statute of Autonomy) and to share a reflection, or the basis for its hypothetical updating, without a prioriism. Because we also agreed then that there could be a position, quite naive on the part of some, among which I included myself, under which it would be detected or agreed that there was no need for reform of the Statute of Autonomy. And then I'll talk about this. But the conclusion, after four years, was that we already knew practically all of us were going to have, and that is that we did not bring anything especially new. Nothing especially new after four years. We constitute that presentation, and it basically served to repeat what we already know we think about each other, to listen to each other. It is not bad to listen, but it is true that for practical purposes it does not contribute very much. Perhaps we know something new today, to amend myself: we know that the Basque Nationalist Party, by the mouth of its spokesman, is betting on a pact based on the right to decide, and that its governing partner seems to say something else, and I suspect that this can create some kind of discomfort in the relationship between the two parties, but we will see. Over the last four years – and this is for those who did not have the luck, the fortune of participating in these debates, and there is no irony on my part in these words – we listen to jurists of recognized prestige; we listen to experts, not jurists, of recognized prestige, to others who had perhaps less recognized prestige; we listen to many supposedly independent people; we listen to politicians in active exercise; we listen to ex-politicians, ex-representatives, ex-governors; we even listen to people coming from other parts of Europe to tell us their experiences, and some, with some daring, to tell us what we had to do. This has happened over the past four years. Also the political groups represented there had the opportunity to share, to talk to us, as he said before, to tell us what vision we have of the development of self-government and what we have (generically, but we did) opinion on the future of the development of our self-government, or the future, in any case, of the norms we possess. All this energy, all this energy – you will value whether you use it or not, given where we are today – is what we have dedicated over the past four years. Energy dedicated to a topic that I have the feeling, and I think it can be a generally shared feeling, that it doesn't seem to upset Basque society too much. I do not have the feeling, we do not have the pulse, at least we, that this debate is causing a great deal of distress in the Basque population as a whole. But, well, we ourselves, four years dedicated to this, even though the problems are growing on the other hand, even though the great challenges we have to face are going on the other way. And today, today, the re-edition of this paper is submitted to this House for consideration. Come on, second txanda. We, I have to confess that after these four years in the paper, after the experience of decades, Mr Pastor, but after having deepened and updated the positions over these four years, we came to a conclusion that we put in writing, and that is that we did not believe that a reform of the Statute of Autonomy is necessary; in any case, that a reform of the Statute of Autonomy is not urgent. And we supported this position and argued for two fundamental reasons. The first of them, which we believe we still have an unexplored and unexpressed capacity for self-government. That we believe that we have some tools of self-government that can still bear many fruits, just as they have so far, and that we can continue to express and take advantage of them. That we believe that there is a huge task to be addressed, such as modernizing and improving the administration and service we provide to the citizen. That we believe that there are great challenges that affect Euskadi, Spain, but the whole of Europe and the world (demographic challenges, challenges of how to keep the welfare state), that there are great challenges that do require all our energy and all our dedication, which are probably prior to opening these debates, these melons. That we believe that there are institutional reforms in the Basque Country itself, that articulate our complex, varied institutional framework, that require modernisation as well as improvement, and that they are not minor debates and that they are not debates that are precisely to be closed in parliamentary debates of one morning, that require a deep reflection: the parliaments, our capitals, how we do to make the Administration more agile, more transparent as well, and more effective in the service it provides to the citizen. This was one of the fundamental reasons why we believe that it is not necessary to reform the Statute of Autonomy now: that there is a previous job still to be done. And the second of the reasons is because, in view of what we have heard from each other and of the demonstrations made both within the presentation and in the political demonstrations that we are doing, we believe that we would be in trouble, Mr Lehendakari. We believe that at this moment, with the threats and the great challenges that we have to address, with the uncertainties that we have as a society (but not the Basque one, I dare say that the West), with the great debates that we have to address and solve, I believe that, given the positions of both of us, now in Basquedi we would be in a mess of unpredictable consequences. We believe that it is much more positive at this time to bet on collaboration, on interdependence, on seeking synergies with our neighbours (which unites us, rather than separating us), and to take advantage, I insist, of the potentiality of the Statute of Autonomy. And we believe that this debate can lead us to a dead end, or in any case it can lead us to a situation that we have already experienced in the past. And, in any case – and hence our amendment, Mr Pastor – we need, we ask, politically implore you to translate once and for all, Mr Egibar, Mr lehendakari, to translate into us what bilaterality is, what cosoberania is, what is the new status. That is why we ask for an articulated text. That's why we're asking for a concretion. Look, Mr. lehendakari, we know no, I'm going to tell you that we're intuition, because we don't think you're exactly a brainless person, quite the opposite (maybe we think you're a wrong person, but certainly not a brainless person), we feel that you look back at what's happening in Catalonia. We know that the Basque Nationalist Party looks with interest – I am going to use this euphemism – what happens in Catalonia. We take it that they take good note. But we want to say one thing to you too, Mr Lehendakari: you cannot make calculations about the unpredictable. You can't do calculations about the unpredictable, because it usually goes wrong. And it does not go wrong for the political parties or for the debate in this House, but it goes wrong for the very society to which we intend to serve. Unforeseeable calculations have unpredictable developments, and they also have unpredictable outcomes. And we have to take good care of this. We must strive to generate stability, in our opinion, Mr Lehendakari; we must strive to seek the points of agreement and understanding between Basques fundamentally, but also in our relationship with the rest of the Spaniards, and that should be our goal, because the opposite is to play with fire. But, if you still remain committed to developing a road map and to developing a political position that Mr Egibar sometimes expresses in one way, I think that with a lot of clarity, other times other leaders of the Basque Nationalist Party modulate it, other times Mr lehendakari tells us something else, sometimes use an euphemism, sometimes use another..., what we want to tell you is the following. It is legitimate to claim a reform of a rule, it is also legitimate to claim the reform of the Statute of Autonomy, but what must be said is what is meant to change and for what, because, if not, we will not be faced with a debate, we will be faced with a strategy of part, which is the strategy of the Basque Nationalist Party, to which we are all led. A strategy that can be dilatory, or a strategy that can be to park this debate in a committee in Parliament so as not to have problems with my governing partner or not to reveal the true intentions. That is why our amendment goes there: after so many decades of debate, after these last four years of reflection, whoever wants and who has a proposal for reform of a new status, or with the euphemism of it, that we present it so that we can discuss it. Let us present an articulated text on which the political parties represented in this House can express themselves. Because, if not, we'll be playing PNV strategy. We will not be provoking a debate, we will not be facilitating a debate to reform our statutory rule: we will be playing out your strategy, Mr Lehendakari. And you have full legitimacy to have a strategy, you have full legitimacy to park debates, to hide them, to use euphemisms, but to what we also have the right others is to demand clarity once and for all. Because this identity debate, by which one day one thing is said here in this rostrum and another at the party headquarters, does not bring anything positive to Euskadi or the Basques. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u40	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Unite the EH team as representative. Madame Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u41	Congressman, good day. The right to decide in the twentieth century is to transcend a paradigm, created by the respect of democracy and human rights connected with them, to exceed the right of self-determination. And what does it exceed? It makes a remarkable and important step, because it rests on a democratic will, because the people have this right in democratic systems, and because it penetrates into democracy. Therefore, let us not fear democracy. No tengamos mior a la democracia. The Basque people ought to be masters of themselves, and they have a right to it. When therefore speaking of the future, there is no need to set bounds to the will of the Basque people. We need no yoke, and we must not buy our yokes before the oxen, nor shall the fool do it. The text we're going to vote here today seems to me to be better than we had before, and we've all done it to make an effort. And though at last we have not fully agreed, it seems to me that the exercise we have made will be a very positive exercise, and that we shall have some guide in all the works we have to do hereafter. But we think it's not enough. The text put to the vote today, in the opinion of Euskal Herria Bildu, is not enough. We are, of course, in agreement to create a presentation on self-government, but we are concerned that in the justification of the proposal there are a number of concepts that, as you look at them, try to condition from the beginning the course of this presentation, because it can lead to the birth of the presentation in some sense. The women and men we sit in this Parliament are representatives of the citizens of Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa and we owe them, and no one else. It is their interests that we must defend, it is their needs that we must defend, and the work of this Parliament in this paper must always be directed towards the welfare of these citizens. And the will of the citizens we represent must always be present. In that sense, I say, let us not be afraid of democracy. There is no reason why all possible options for the future, all of them, should not be open in this country, and we will decide which is the best of them all. The Basque People have endeavoured to insist on the principle of democracy at the beginning of this podency. The Jeltarian Party, the PSE and Podemos, have at first sought other concepts, including the respect of legal order, and what we think we ought to respect is that the democratic decision of the citizens is above all things. The Basque Country could also establish certain conditions on its own at this beginning. We could say, for example, that we must treat the attitude of independence, or that it must be one of the main axiss, or that we shall have an organization which will be the basis of feminism. But though we may say all these, yet it seems to us that, being important, they will be the results of the labors of power, which will bring all these to us at table, and that the rights of the people must be the only end of which they determine democraticly, which they determine by majority. Our will to advance in self-government is real, you have no doubt. Euskal Herria Bildu is going to do it seriously, because he wants to take this country to the place it deserves. And that place is none other than the one that the people of this country freely and democratically ask for. It is something that at least most of the members of this House also defend on paper. It is now necessary that, in addition to the role and electoral campaigns, we see it day by day and in fact. Euskal Herria Bildu, Podemos and Euzko Alderdi Jeltzalea-Partido Nacionalista Vasco on 15 December we were able to sign a text, on the occasion of the call to declare by the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia to Mrs Forcadell, in which we said that "the peoples have democratic legitimacy to decide their future, having to be the limit what citizens express and decide democratically". I will read it in Basque: "Herriek beren etorkizun politicakoa erabakitzeko daggigitasun demokratikoa daukate, muga herritarek demokratikoki adieriazi eta erabakitzen dutena izan behar delarik". Hori guztia esan genuine age you go hori guztia estateko gai izan behar dugula aurrerantzean era. We may lengthenize the value of democracy, but on the basis of it there are two principles: The majority decides, respecting the minority completely. And unfortunately, it often seems to me that a minority endeavors to establish a right of veto in the Basque Country by making a difficulty in establishing so many concepts. And all this leads us to the expressions of the Government's chief departments during these days, and how they have told us what bounds they find in our legal order in our hands. Mr. Erkárek is now in session to resist this parliamentary who asked him to come. He told us to put "pie pair" on it. And we said we'd put both legs on the ground and walk. "that we may walk and bring this people where they deserve it, and give them all the conditions which are necessary for the Basque people to dwell in. This country cannot be decadent because it can't exist for us and we can't have all the resources we need for our children. The only way to resist is, I think, to determine the right of the people in the midst of this dispute, and to defend their democratic right. We'll work on this power, and we won't disturb this power at all. We will work without a precedent, because we believe that the citizens deserve to be treated with respect, because we believe that the Basque Men and Women deserve to be equal to the rest of the people of Europe. They don't deserve it. We will try to make it better for us to live and be happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. Passing over to the answering shift, Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u43	Thank you, President. I welcome the cordial tone that has been maintained by all political groups. I would like to congratulate you on the agreement we have reached. I would especially like to thank Podemos, who I believe has put on his side an important part of political intelligence. But I think we should all run the risk – and today we have already run the risk, and we have run the risk these days just before plenary – of falling into nominalist debates. Today it is pure and simple to set up and launch the self-government presentation, of nothing else. Not to make an account of what each politically understands that he is interested in discussing, because, if not, we would have reached a point in plenary where the approval of the presentation would have had about twelve folios, and in which the right to decide would have had to appear, what Mrs Iriarte defends, the social shields, the constitutional reform of Spain, the unity of Spain... Finally, I think that was not the reason or interest in approving today's discussion, but the constitution of the self-government paper. And the presentation of self-government will decide within it, by its members, those who compose it, with complete freedom, all those matters, issues or issues that it understands are necessary, essential or important to guarantee the well-being and the future of the Basque citizens, which I believe we are talking about, not to give satisfaction to the political aspirations of each of the groups in this House. Because, finally, I might also have been interested in the appearance of constitutional reform in the federal sense, or the disappearance of the social classes and the emancipation of the working classes, as it appears in our maximum program, right? But that is of great interest to our voters and to our militants and affiliates, but not to the entire Basque society, to which we are supposed to owe. Therefore, let us flee from these nominalist debates, because it is very legitimate what any political party can defend (also you, Mrs Iriarte, but also what I or any of the others defend), and the important, the lasting, the useful thing for Basque society is that we are able to find a great meeting point that will satisfy at least all of us. For thus the nations are built, through covenants, and if there is no great covenant that nation that is said to defend does not exist, and therefore its functioning and existence becomes impossible. And, Mr Semper, also with all affection, it is true, as you say, that there are other outstanding tasks to be addressed, in addition to the reform of the Statute, of course, some of which, by the way, can also be addressed in that self-government presentation, such as the internal institutional reform of the Autonomous Community, for example. It can also be, why not, the object of the self-government presentation. And, in any case, the discussion in the presentation on the reform of the Statute does not prevent other outstanding issues from being raised, which obviously exist in Basque society, does it not? You made a reference to the need for an articulated text. I would like to reassure you in this regard: the work of this paper, the previous analyses, the contrast of opinions, the conclusions that each group makes, the pooling, if possible, of all of them in a final document, will put an end to the request for the drafting and drafting of an articulated text, which will have to arrive at this Parliament's paper and will have to be discussed, logically. And there we will have the opportunity, too, to clarify and put black on white what you want to do, what you want to get, in what way, and with what instruments. And we will certainly have a rewarding discussion again. All I ask of all the members of this House is that we give ourselves an opportunity to explore the possibilities, which the Socialists sincerely believe exist, to reach a common territory where we can all find ourselves.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u44	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u45	There's not much to say. I believe, as has been said, that every one explains his tone and disposition. I, at least, do not believe that in those which are observed to be preconceived and preconditioning, it is possible for any one to determine the nature of this ponciferation. I have already mentioned that we shall pursue the continental, and that we shall pursue the continent, the most consistent, and the most extensive compact, but without a veto, and the democratic majority are democratic majoritys. What I think afterwards is the discourse of the Pooper Party... I think you dry your speech out of this Chamber, Mr. Sémper. You don't get involved in any of the works of this legislature. The image of the Spanish Government, you bring in your opinion, and you always show your curiosity: "Where's the articulate text? What do you mean? "I don't know. He'll come by saying that this is not the way, is it not legal? And maybe you know what happened to Rajoy too, don't you? Rajoy doesn't see problems in Euskadin and Catalonia, he's got his own system, he's got his opinion. And, consequently, what has happened and what's happening to you is that I think it's quite obvious that it doesn't matter to her at all in Catalonia and the Basque Country, or in this Eukadi autonomous Eusia, which can happen to the PP side. It doesn't matter. And look at the destination in the vote. He has another disappointment. And that's why I'd ask you to join me on this committee, not wait to see what the others will say or what they'll write. Just open your head a bit. Einstein said the mind and parachute only serve if they open. Then, open yourselves up, bring in, do not sit down as the corrector of the Kingdom. I believe it is time to contribute to the search for the greatest possible consensus, but without vetoes. And then, what Mrs. Irriere said, where did she see the mistake, the law and the mention. It is clear that if we give the preference to a democratic majority, this democratic majority demands a way, and it is for us to make all this and a law. But there is also the next step, and you answered: if this does not happen, we know how to resist it. Well, welcome to that resistance. I believe that, if we look to the future with auto-gronze, it must necessarily be the first step to defend our present strength, and that different governments of Spain have attempted to evacuate it, we must answer firmly to that which the State of Guica has tried to destroy. There's no point in making a procession that's what we want to be in the future if we don't defend the present one, why shouldn't there be a rocket? Hence it is a political exercise and a democratic one, in view of each of us, that the least social rights, economics, politicals, human rights, and the collective human rights of individuals, may be introduced into that project of our people, and a sort of popular festival. The people must also decide what kind of life we want with Spain. This is to resist democraticly-that is to allow the will of the majority. And for this purpose the law must be considered in order to change it. I think that's the greatest controversy we really have. On the one hand, where is this legality natural to democratic majority? Above or below the law? We think that legislation ought to be what it ought to be and not vice versa. And if it's necessary to resist, one must resist once or twice, or at the moment of what it is, but with this intention of going on. And I think we can make a nice basket with the nests we have. It will depend on us whether this new political project is well developed in the next months and years. At least we do our purpose, our will and our work.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u46	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Together represent the Podemos team. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u47	Me too, short. I think we've said almost everything today. First of all, thank you for the tone. "Agradezo tus palabras, Josean, y quiero agradcer tambiens a los grupos que hemos considerado acordar esto." And also to the Basque People, the Basque People, even though they're not on the deal, I know they've been trying. We have, as the major said, done a very interesting exercise to get to this point, and have placed at least one good point on the table, and have seen that we have at least seen the power to discuss, not only in this term, the origin of ponciferation, but also in some small grounds. Finally, that's what we wanted today, the creation of this power, the beginning of this power. But we saw that, to support all disputes, it was necessary to appear in this text of certain Pseopolitics, and that, as I have said, all the subjects, the wide perspective of the self-organization, will be present in this power. We think that's what's been accomplished. We'll be very good at it, because we'll take our text there. Here almost all the parties have the power to carry your text, and we shall carry it as quickly as possible. We're going to work first, work it out, and then we'll take it, and we'll make our own proposal on it. Again, there will be points to which I have already pointed out: the social rights, the equality of men and women, and the development of the right of determining and the democratic instruments of advancement. And finally, Mr Semper – they have already told you and I repeat this – in the end, when you are out of reality, what happens is that society itself is out of reality. You are already the fifth force in this country, and that happens because you go away every day, every day more and more and more, from what really happens. Perhaps, and of course, the greatest concern of Basque citizenship at the moment is employment, but that does not mean that it is not a debate and a feeling that exists there. And, of course, indeed, we have great challenges, and for those great challenges what we need are great tools. And the best way to achieve and build the great tools we need for these great challenges that require the development and improvement of this country and the life of its citizens is self-government. And, of course, let no one in any way block the development of that self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u48	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Euscala Popular's representative. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u49	Thank you, Madam President. As a previous question, Mr Martínez, be careful with some things (I tell you with all affection), because politics is like this, it is unpredictable. Some come to storm the skies and stay in eleven Members, which is not bad, but from there to storm the skies, so there is a big difference. And then we have to have the necessary humility in politics, because, of course, the question that could be asked is, man, one who is unable to agree in his own home, how does he come to teach us lessons to others? Mr Martinez, time to time, and let's see how politics develops. But, believe me, fortunately this democracy has one thing, which is unpredictability, and you are given once electoral support and sometimes not. That's why I encourage you to be more prudent in any case, really. With all the affection, eh! And it's not advice, it's a shared reflection with you. Mr. Pastor complained that there was a certain nominalist debate on the part of EH Bildu. There is no other debate than the nominalist, Mr Pastor! It's just that we don't get out of the nominalist debate! And that's what we want, unlock this. We want to be clearly told what is intended. You probably don't care about that now. We are also aware, and sensitive, although it is their problem, not that of others. But we believe that we need to get out of the nominalist debate, that we need to give content to large sentences, to grandiose phrases and to political expressions that seem to fill everything, but that steal and avoid the possibility of debate because we do not know the content. That's why I was telling him what the new status is? That we are already announced, in addition to with referendum and with previous, subsequent agreements, with entrusting experts in the field to draft a text... What is it? Do you know that? He'll know the same thing I do! Maybe you know something else. But we don't really know. We cannot therefore debate this proposal, a proposal which defends nothing more and nothing less than those who hold the lehendakaritza. We do not know what the political content of this is. And there may be a delaying strategy (I do not say so), there may be a delaying strategy that suits a particular party, that suits a particular coalition of government, but that does not bring anything to Basque society, because it has delaying. And what we're asking for is the concretion. What we ask is to have the possibility of discussing an articulated text, being able to amend, being able to say "this we like, this not"... That would be a way forward! Another two years of reflection? So many more years to wait for an articulated text, another legislature with complaints, with the "foot on the wall", with "let's do not know what", with...? By the way, Mr. Erkoreka, the feet on the wall... Or we have three legs... It's better to have both well anchored on the ground, keep the balance. Because you don't have three legs, neither do I. Let's go another way, change the script of the Basque Nationalist Party! It's what we invite everyone to. Let us change the script whereby your strategy, which serves you, does not bring anything to Basque society in this House. We have already discussed concrete things, Mr Lehendakari! That's what we're asking, that we can position ourselves on a concrete proposal from who thinks he's so essentialist... Mr. Egibar, your speeches are always very essentialist. They are essentialists in the concepts it transmits, they are essentialists in leaving out of those who do not agree the will to defend the interests of this land. Because we've been chosen by Basques just like you. For Basques and Basques, just like you. We have been elected by citizens of this autonomous community to defend the same interests as you. The same legitimacy that you have sitting there, the parliamentarians of the People's Party have. We owe no one, beyond our conscience, our political opinion and our respect to those who voted for us and to those who did not vote for us, who are Basques and Basques. Don't give him the slightest doubt. That essentialism of the Basque Nationalist Party I think has remained a bit old-fashioned, and I think we need to evolve, Mr Egibar. And besides, Mr. Egibar, it is you who are here all day talking about Rajoy and Spain. All day. Active or passive, positive or negative, all day talking about Spain. This does not seem particularly bad to us, but all day long talking about Spain, Rajoy and the government of the nation. Let us overcome this dialectic, and I conclude with this invitation to the Basque Nationalist Party: let us overcome this essentialist dialectic, that dialectic of cataloguing Basques a little more Basques and Basques a little less Basques according to the political positions we defend. Let us overcome this dialectic, and let us enter into the ground of concrete. We are going to participate in that presentation with renewed illusion (well, I have come up with the illusion). We are going to participate in this presentation with renewed interest, but we are going to ask you once and for all to give us concrete action on what you want to do. And we are going to try also (although in this, Mr. Pastor, we remain alone), we are going to try also to change your strategy, which only benefits you, as I have told you before, but which makes little contribution to Basque society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u50	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. To finish up, EH Collect Group's representative. Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u51	As I have said a little before, I think we have taken an interesting exercise to obtain an agreement between the different sects of politics and formations to-day. It can't be, as we have seen, but practice has a value in it. And next time, Mr. Pastor, let's say no more than "let's get the paper going", because if you have underlined something to me, we have to take care of the current legal order. He stressed it. And the current legal order changed it one morning in August, while the others gave us cream on the beach. And when Mrs. Rosa Parks sat in the white seat she was also violating the legal order, but she sat down. And when thousands of Basques faced the legal order, and in some cases paid prison sentences for not going to the military service called by the Spanish Navy, they also violated that legal order. But now our children (I don't know if our daughters would be in that same brete) don't do the militia. "Betorik gabe" is a didazu, yellow Egibar, age halaxe nahi genuke hassi bide hau. Zuk behin eta berriz esan duzu Euzko Alderdi Jeltzaleak eta Euskadiko Alderdi Sozialistak gobernurako itxi duzuen akordio horretan zuek eskuak free dauzkazuela. Jarri martxan without hands hori, hands free jarri ezazu martxan, with hands free running we can, I am sure, work in common and take important steps so that the men and women of Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa can decide about their future and can decide better. Words aren't enough, words must mean something behind them. It is not enough that some words should appear written, but we must fill the words with signification; and if not, they are of no use. We'll be in power, though today we're going to abstain from this contacted text. You will find us working, because we are going to work all the time to improve the needs of the people and the lives of the people. We gave that word to the people who voted for us, and we'll try to do it. You told me the resistance. The Resistance is not a sign. The resistance is the building and resistance is the future, and the future is the right and democratic choice of deciding the men and women of this country in the middle of this dispute. All the rest, which we now have in hand, are juridic orders, and the rest, derived from the period of francism, and constantly reducing the rights of this people. We must look to other orders, and, as has been said, our resistance will come from giving and proclaiming the future and determination of this people. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. Now that the discussion is over, Euskal Socialists vote the half-correction which Podemos and Eukobertians have signed together. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the partisans of 48; the contrary, 9; white, 0; abstaining, 18.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u53	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Forth point on the theme list: "To discuss these other proposals of law together, and to take up the final resolution: "The same proposal as the Parlamentary People made by the Parlamentary Society, that the purpose of Empedibility should be fulfilled in a plan for reforming the Professional Office. "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary team together, concerning the reform of the Professional Office." It's the turn of those who made the proposal. Mrs Garrido, representative of the Basque Group, has the word to introduce and defend. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, congressmen. The President, when we speak of these debates, is not at least at the beginning of the debate; we hope he will come later. Good morning, chief of departments. The popular party endeavors to open this law with the subjects which concern the people; and, as we all remember, in the preceding assembly a proposition of the Potionian party was discussed in order to change the system of society. Today we're going to discuss a new proposal of the reform of the profession, and we're asking the Eucomune to make a plan for the reform of the profession to discuss here in the parliament. In order to get into reality and get down to the concrete, today we are debating a new initiative of the People's Party that affects a matter that affects us all, which concerns the citizens; in short, a matter that is on the street. It is not the first time, and surely... I wish it were so, that it was the last, but surely, as I say, it will not be the last time we have to bring to this House an initiative of these characteristics. We have been discussing this issue on many occasions in the last parliamentary term, on Lanbide, the Basque Employment Service, its inefficiency, its inefficient management of social aid, and the need to change the rules on social aid so that such aid would actually reach the people who need it. It should also be remembered that in this Parliament thousands of citizens were turned their backs on the idea of opening the debate in this House on social aid. And already in this legislature, the XI legislature, in the first ordinary session of this Parliament, in the first ordinary plenary, this group decided to propose this initiative again, an initiative to modify the rules on social aid, through a non-law proposal. We have to say that this initiative reached an agreement on the part of the groups represented in this House where the People's Party abstained, because there was a clear indefinition in that initiative, of not taking the bull by the horns, of attenuating the responsibility of a government, when the responsibility of a government in the management of a service such as the Basque Employment Service, for it is clear that it has not been assumed as it should have been assumed. And that is why today we see a failure in Lanbide, in the Basque Employment Service, in the management of social assistance and in what it has to do with putting this service in favour of the employability not only of the unemployed, but also of the people who are receiving social assistance. Because the objective of the Basque Employment System, Lanbide, and the objective of this government already in the last legislature, had to be to give people an opportunity to receive social assistance, an economic benefit under the Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act, and to give them an opportunity not to cronify themselves in the system, as is currently happening. And I say that we abstained from this compromise amendment because it was completely ambiguous, it made nothing concrete. He was talking about a pact, about promoting a pact, then he was talking about making a diagnosis, then he was talking about bringing that diagnosis to Parliament to set a procedure, and that would eventually be referred to a regulation. That is to say, we are delaying decisions and that this Government assumes its responsibilities, in a matter that this Government has repeatedly told us, also at the beginning of this parliamentary term, both in the appearance the other day of the Councillor for Employment and Social Affairs and in the first appearance and in the speech of investiture of the lehendakari, that employment is the priority of this Government. Employment cannot be the priority of a government, when the Basque Employment Service is as it is. I encourage you to do a very simple exercise, because there is often no need to do so: go out on the street and ask what the Basques and Basques think about the Basque Employment Service. It's just that the ratings are...! No one is positive, they're all negative, they're all pejorative. This is what this Government has achieved after the transfer of active employment policies, with the management of this public service. Debate has proposed Zen dugu, aurrekoekin will beat, kalean daden gaiak direlako eta herritarrak kezkatzen dituztenak direlako. And today we are again raising a debate that has to do with a problem that is on the street, which concerns the citizens, as I said at the beginning of my speech. We plan for the Government to develop a Lanbide reform plan. Not to draw up a plan and keep it in a drawer, but to draw up a plan, bring it to this Parliament and debate it in this Parliament within four months. We believe that once the Government is formed several months ago, once the problem is recognized by the Government itself (that is, it has not yet come to action), we believe that this time limit is sufficient to implement this plan and that Lanbide's inefficiency is definitively corrected and that it is definitively put into this service in favour of employability. Lanbide is a real disaster, and that must be acknowledged and that is there, and I therefore believe that it is no longer worth patching, that it is not worth measures to mitigate failure, but that it is really necessary to take the bull by the horns and this Government has to assume its responsibility. Because it is their responsibility, the responsibility of the Basque Nationalist Party, which for four years, knowing and knowing the situation in Lanbide, put in place virtually no measures to correct the direction of the situation in Lanbide. And we believe from the Group of the European People's Party that Basque citizens have the right to have a functioning Basque public employment service, which fulfils the objectives entrusted to them in relation, as I said earlier, both to the employability of the unemployed and to give that job placement, that opportunity to those who receive social assistance. In short, Basque citizens have the right to an effective and efficient Basque employment service. This, of course, inevitably involves arbitrating a fair, solidarity-based and sustainable system; ensuring that aid reaches those who really need it; avoiding abusive, irregular and fraudulent situations, which are and are known to us every day; that there are no IRG recipients who commit crimes or who have been accused of committing crimes or convicted of committing crimes; permanently linking the perception of social assistance with employability, giving the recipients that opportunity that they deserve to leave the system once and for all and that they do not cronify. Because people want to work, and to be given a chance to develop a life project through a job. The management of economic benefits should also be definitively remedied. The other day, the advisor herself gave us the figure: €155 million in undue charges! This clearly shows that there is no proper and correct management of social aid and these economic benefits. Therefore, the inaction of this Government, of Mr Urkullu's Government, over the past few years, and especially the last four years in which Mr Urkullu has been, leads to the need to re-examine this debate here today. The failure of the profession is obvious as a public service for managing active jobs policies. It is not right, Madam Councillor, to come here the other day to Parliament to explain the general lines of your department over the next four years, and to bring us here the same detail of proposals and commitments that Mr Aburto brought four years ago. We must tell the Basque citizens and the Basque citizens that we have wasted our time with Mr Urkullu's government for four years! It is because Mr Aburto was telling us about defining a Lanbide model, he was telling us about the interrelationship with the agents involved, he was telling us about prioritizing Lanbide's programmes, he was telling us about developing specific programmes for young people, he was telling us about bringing Lanbide closer to businesses, that in the intermediation rate it would reach 5% (and we are at 3.27%, according to the data you gave us the other day). We were told by Mr Aburto that Lanbide's activity should be directed towards employability, that Lanbide should be consolidated as a modern, effective, consensual and integrated employment system with other agents. Mr Aburto told us four years ago about giving personalized attention, about giving a service to the company that is not limited to being a register of employees, about defining individualized plans, about establishing systems of collaboration with other agents, about developing systems of control and evaluation. I ask you again: what have you done for four years to ask us the same things that you asked us four years ago? That they do not even bring us improvements, or continue with those proposals! We have these proposals, these initiatives, as if Lanbide were born now, ladies and gentlemen of the Government. The question is very clear: what has the Jeltarian Eucan Party done in the last four years to present the same improvements of four years ago in this Chamber? If something had been done during the last four years, we wouldn't be here today discussing the reform of the profession. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, have lost four years, four years of enormous importance and finality to consolidate precisely a stable and quality job, which is precisely what you propose to us today in your compromise amendment. If they had done their duties, as I said before, and assumed their responsibility, we would not be here today to raise this debate. We would not be proposing today, when we are talking about a young organism, which is at the beginning of its journey, a Lanbide reform plan, a comprehensive Lanbide reform plan, which is reviewed and retouched Lanbide from above. If you had assumed your responsibility, we would not be raising this debate here today. It's just that when the former department officials, the counselor and the vice-advisor, told us that the companies are passing from Lanbide, or that their children wouldn't think of going to Lanbide, we're not talking about mere touches, simple patches. When Lanbide's futility has been recognized by the Basque Nationalist Party's own government, it is not mere makeup operations to mitigate an obvious failure. Your failure, gentlemen. It is a matter that should have been an absolute priority for this Government, already in the last parliamentary term. The one who should have had the priority for the Jestric Party a long time ago has not yet been solved by the patches. We ask you to reflect deeply on this matter, and to take care of it. As I say, Lanbide's failure, nothing less than the Basque Public Employment Service, which had to be at the service of all Basques, of employability, of the main objective, which had to have been the main objective and concern of this Government. So, hollow words. Do not tell us that employment is the main concern of this Government, do not tell us, because we refer to the facts. And the main instrument we have to boost employment, to consolidate the economic recovery in Euskadi, which we have gone to dispel the measures that have been taken by the central government of the People's Party... We have an instrument of our own, a specific tool for being able to do something, or much more than you have done. We therefore call on them to reflect deeply on this matter, to rectify their attitude for so many years and, ultimately, to assume their responsibility. We proposed in the initiative that a plan be brought forward, that a plan be drawn up and that it be brought to this House for debate within four months. We believe that this is a fairly adequate period of time, bearing in mind that the Government has already been in place for months, bearing in mind that this is not new, and bearing in mind that Mr Toña, Mr Artolazabal's predecessor, at the May 2016 appearance, told us that work was being done on a technical committee, and that in the coming days his reflections would be completed and a document would be available. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that you are still wasting your time. And with this compromise amendment we have really made efforts to try and reach agreement, but we clearly believe that it is short. They're talking about six months to come up with a plan. That plan will be drawn up on the basis of a process of shared evaluation between institutions, social actors and service providers, which is very good, but you are now beginning to engage in discussions with actors who have something to say on this issue. We are talking about six months, which will then bring him to this House for debate, if obviously the Spokesman's Board considers this to be so. I think it's too long a period of time. I also believe that the plan should simply be brought to the Basque Parliament for its debate. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, I miss, at this moment, some assumption of some kind of responsibility and some sort of rectification. Because we would not be here today proposing this initiative from the Group of the European People's Party, of course, if this Government had done things as it should have done in the management of this public service, in the management of social aid and, as I said, in putting in place a fundamental service, if employment is seen as a priority policy, at the service of all Basques. Therefore, the compromise amendment, as is obviously not satisfactory to us, will not be voted in favour. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u55	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Together, the representative of the Podemos group has the word. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u56	Kaixo guztioi. Eskerrik asko, lehendakari anderea. Legebiltzarkideok, Sailburuak. Thanks also to the People's Party for allowing these initiatives to accumulate. It is evident that we begin this legislation by force, by the discussion of the subjects which are really concerned with it. In so far as we represent all those who have voted us, we are indispensable. Benetako enplegu-zerbitzu eraginkor eta egokia izaziko, adamez egingo dugu lan. Zalantzarik gabe, Lanbidek ereforma sakona eta premiazkoa behar du. Gobernuak berak bere gobernu-akordioan said, "Sensitivity and commitment to people's basic needs must remain the essential principle of the action of public institutions. Ensuring essential public services and social policies are the axes on which to build cohesion and quality of life in Euskadi." Let's see if over these four years you don't forget about this; of course, we will be here to remember it. As I was saying, talking about Lanbide is talking about a public service that, according to the law, aims to contribute to the full development of the right to stable and quality employment. We know that Lanbide does not meet that goal today, and we also know that it is essential to undertake a courageous reform that will bring the Basque Employment Service up to its citizens. The Government, in fact, in its pact committed – and I quote again textually – "to reform and modernise the Public Employment Service, providing it with tools to strengthen the role of guidance, training and integration in the labour market". Well, ladies and gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party, apply yourselves to your good purpose and proceed to the reform of Lanbide. But do so by listening to the rest of the groups in this House, also listening to the social groups, who have been denouncing their poor management of this public service for years, although some do not seem to be interested in those words. And, above all, before doing so, before reforming Lanbide, acknowledge that the starting point is not good. Recognize that it is not working as it should, that it is not serving the purpose of employment entrusted to it by law, and that in that you, who have been managing the service for so many years, have the responsibility. Because today Lanbide has many shortcomings that we, from Elkarrekin Podemos, think they go in two different points: those that have to do with Lanbide in its condition of Basque employment service and the themes that that name entails, and those that have to do with the management of income guarantee income. We understand that, even if reforms are to be addressed separately, they cannot be addressed without each other. If we put in a starting point that unravels the positions of each one, as you will know, we start from using the Basque Employment Service to manage the right to guarantee the income of the population was a mistake, and it remains so. But a mistake that has also cost suffering to many people, and that continues to cost to today. And if not, ask those who today are still claiming undue payments for 2012. And we consider that Lanbide does not work, and that the management of the RGI takes away time and space to devote itself to what it has to devote itself to. But also, and above all, because the right to income security has to be separated from the right to employment. We know – you do not need to remind us – that the law has changed and that that change has linked both things. But we have arguments and reasons that point out that it was a wrong decision, and therefore we must defend the need for the reforms that we believe Lanbide needs to start here. Because income security is a right of the population, indeed, to which they can access employment, in most cases precarious, but it is also a right of part of the population that does not access or have the possibility to do so. Are we going to continue to generate first- and second-class citizens? With us, of course, do not count for this. The management of the RGI within Lanbide hinders and, as seen, does damage and again represents a political bet for prioritizing the control of the citizenry against the support. Because, although the right is conditional on access to employment, the problems of service management mean that, in Lanbide practice, instead of improving the conditions and access to employment of Basque citizens, it is dedicated to monitoring whether persons, whether or not they perceive them, make a "responsible" use of resources, with the questionable point of view that this is ethical. Although I have already said at the beginning of the speech, Lanbide's problems are not only that RGI is being managed. They have a second dimension as a public employment service, because, how does Lanbide intend to change the service it is giving, from job orientation, if a job exchange is published a few days ago, in which they claim, at least in view of the agenda, that the job guidance workers train the GIR? We understand that people who engage in work guidance in Lanbide must have clear functions, and not condition one thing to the other. We think this is a pretty ugly game, and it can leave a lot of people without freedom. Lanbide has no tools today to support many people, let alone those who have special difficulties in accessing an increasingly precarious labour market that offers misery in exchange for flexibility. We understand that Lanbide must devote itself exclusively to its task, which is to facilitate access to the labour market and to offer quality employment to Basque citizens. To this day, Lanbide devotes enormous efforts to controlling people, forcing them to access training or employment without meeting their interests or needs, under the threat that not doing so means losing their livelihood income. We believe that the task of a public service is not to do this; it is to offer capital opportunities and to listen to the population. And it is that in order to ensure the fulfilment of Lanbide's purposes reform is not only necessary; it is urgent. Today we are negotiating this proposal because we understand that we cannot undertake a reform of this magnitude without consensus on how to do so, because on this issue we have an obligation to agree to facilitate a process of reform open to citizens and discussed in this House; a fair process and a participatory process. And in this line we understand that the reform is about ensuring a shared prior evaluation and in which users of the service also participate. It is you, in the words of the previous Vice-Adviser of Employment, who say that your family members do not go through their heads to sign up for Lanbide to find work, recognizing the ineffectiveness in their role as companion in this search for employment. Let us give voice to those who come and who are not given a solution or hope, who are cared for in any way and who are invited or forced – as the case may be – to accept training that does not interest them or provide them, or who are forced to access precarious jobs, conditioning their economic livelihood or without guaranteeing their ability to reconcile. Maybe they can tell us how to do better. Secondly, ensuring the involvement of the social partners, because without them any reform they intend to undertake will be empty of content and biased in the vision of what needs to be improved and how to do so. You've been disdaining the citizenry for a long time, which is systematically saying that things don't work out. The representatives and representatives of this House are one leg of the table, the Government is another; for the table to be complete we have a duty to talk to the people who use the service, with whom they provide complementary services, with whom they study, with whom they already recommend other ways of doing so from the street. Thirdly, it is essential that this reform incorporate a gender perspective, because we know that inequality is a reality, and that a service like this must have a look at women, with double or triple day, with double or triple precariousness. We are the women who are the most unemployed, the women who are the most precarious, the ones who reflect poverty on our faces. We understand that opportunities are being opened up, in an increasingly ageing society, to develop more and better care systems, and we understand that this responsibility cannot and must not fall on women. And these cannot and should not continue to play roles and assume this as a task of their own, always in a more precarious and less valued way than other jobs. Care needs to be cross-cutting and the sexual division of labour and care needs to be eliminated, for example in training offers, which always condemn the same population to the same niches of employment. Because the role of the public employment service is fundamental in this task and indispensable in the fight for equality between women and men, and therefore it seems to us essential that this be seen in the commitment we have made today to reform Lanbide. Because a quality and modern employment service goes through a public service that takes women into account, that thinks of them and with them as subjects of law, that contemplates in a transversal way and in all areas a feminist look. Because reform is urgent, and we believe that it should go beyond ensuring efficiency and efficiency in the service. 75% of Euskadi's unemployed and unemployed are unlikely to find a job in the next six months, because Lanbide is still the worst-rated public policy, and most believe it is not good for finding a job. Because, among other things, Lanbide's own staff has repeatedly denounced service failures and lack of resources. It must provide comprehensive and quality care to those who today have the greatest access difficulties, those who live social inclusion routes, those over forty-five, women (who, despite improving in the latest employment rates, still have a higher percentage), young women (with more slave, temporary and precarious jobs), those who do not have the opportunity to emancipate themselves or have to go looking for opportunities outside. Anyway, we could go on like this, but we wouldn't finish. This reform must ensure a high-quality job supply. Quality with capital letters, because the data say that the improvement of employment in Euskadi is in form, not in substance. We have an unemployment rate, according to the EPA, of 12.5%, which is clearly aggravated in the case of persons under 25 years of age, whose percentage increases to 36%, 44% if you are also a woman. While these data, as in other issues, are not the worst in the state, we see how Basque workers have lost purchasing power since 2012, finding themselves – here indeed – at the head of the state in precarious conditions. This requires a strong system of quality employment, which undoubtedly requires more and better inspection, more and better control of companies and of the conditions they offer to workers; it also requires an improvement in collective agreements and in the relationship with the representation of women workers. We know that you have decided for this government to separate both aspects into two departments, and that we will address it today, but in the distribution of chromes, which you know seems inappropriate to us, because it removes the strategic and global capacity for action from an issue that, in your view, is a priority for your government. The reform must also provide the Basque Employment Service with sufficient resources. Because today we are addressing this proposal for reform without the government saying anything about Lanbide's budget. We are concerned that this week's appearances did not discuss the budget that Lanbide will be given. And finally, we understand that it is essential that we bet on the distribution of existing employment and on a search for generational relief, as well as on professional retraining. To achieve these ends we know that it is essential to bet on a good employment service, a public Lanbide that puts people in the centre, a Lanbide with sufficient resources and that with a good leadership becomes an effective tool for anyone who needs to find a job to be guaranteed that this job is in decent conditions. For this reason, from Elkarrekin We have left ourselves with the skin in getting to deal with this proposition, because the people who are out here, the people who are having a bad time, the people who are going to Lanbide's office without having answers, need Lanbide to work, need Lanbide to give them answers, need it to be a worthy service. That is why, because we are in this House to be the voice of those people, that is why we have been talking to the groups for days and weeks, exchanging texts and seeking agreements. This transaction is not to the greatest glory of any of these groups. This agreement is for the citizenry. If we cannot begin this way which guarantees these minor professions, we shall neither be consistent nor consistent. We will neither keep the laws nor the treaties nor protect our people. The profession, if it continues as it has hitherto been, follows the same course, a greater prerogative and poverty, and we shall have only a worse future for the members of the community. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Passing over to the leaders' team, representing the EH Collect Group. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u58	Congresswoman, members of the legislative class, chief, good day. Today it is time to talk about a subject that has so often been talked of, because it is the discussion of the profession. I also agree with what Mrs Garrido says, because I'm surprised that the principal leader of the government who aims at employment, Mr. Urkullu, is doing other things like that. But it'll be a coincidence. Even in this law, the new commitment to reform and modernize the Professional Professional Service has taken possession of itself. It is not a new engagement; it was an engagement made in former times, but an attempt which has not been carried out. In the course of his performance, four years ago, in the equal terms used by the chief Aburtos (there were also new things, but the terms were similar), he explained his intention to renew and improve his profession. Let's see if this challenge is new and if we can get together with that challenge. That would be our wish. In the last few days' exhibitions, our team has shown clearly that we are in a vital law of importance. We are about to build a new frame, and to compromise in the construction of a new frame requires that a diary should be started from the first moment to change, even at the beginning, which I mentioned at the time, which will be universal and common, but will be a powerful transformation affair. The construction is therefore at this time of legislation. In this way of creating a new state, vital, desirable conditions have been designed to ensure public policies for the newly created one, to create conditions for life worth living, and in this the conditions of employment and employment are essential, just as we explained in the previous performance of the head of Artolalands. And we explained, too, that on the way, the policy that will cause people to act in the middle of them will lead us to it. One of our fat social purposes is to create employment of quality as a country, and in this intention the profession is doubtless an indispensable piece. In construction of the new state, professions are indispensable to making way for a public, solid, efficient employment system. We want a public, solid, referenceable, effective and transparent employment service. We have a system of euscals, which answers to the needs of every man, and on that road I repeat to you, Mrs. Artola generous, that we shall be with you. Last Thursday, in an interview at El Mundo, the chief physician announced the reform of the profession and said: "Una reform para hacerlo efectivo y rectairlo en el intermediari laborari que debe ser." In a certain sense, he admitted that the chief physician himself, in the last time of his profession, had lost sight of the north and the direction. And, as you have often admitted, the rent has compromised its profession in a compromise. The criticisms you've made are often mentioned, but, in truth, the crudest critics have come from the profession, and you'll have to think of the new fun too. Again and again we have said that the profession is in the UCU: the revenues were swallowed up by the revenues to secure the revenues; the revenue, the results which the profession presents as regards the orientation, very little, with important conflicts of the interior, and a vast number of complaints from the users... It is, indeed, almost out of its origin that it is engaged in conflict, and not the difficulties which it has made to render this efficient and refractory service for the employment which it ought to be very little. We may long talk of the dysfunctions and difficulties of the profession to-day. Long, with these complaints which are expressed by users, by these difficulties, by different agents. But we don't think that's the topic today. I think we're all unanimously agreed to arrange how reform is going to be made today. All these other things, in the disputes that will be in the way to produce this new plan, we think we shall have a long chance of talking. We must be prepared, orientation, and intermediary, to the fundamental course of the profession. He must provide a higher and higher training, orientation, and intermediary, from which he is at this moment far away. And that's why it's so important that this discussion that we're going to establish is what's going to happen. We don't want to discuss dysfunctionalities today, and of course we don't want to make a discussion about the RGI today. We don't want to talk about it today. Today, we want to discuss whether or not this reform that will be arranged. Therefore, with this view and this intention, we have tried to find in the course of these days a settlement in this matter, to establish the frame and foundation of that dispute. It was necessary for us from two points of view. For one of our first premises was to make a division of the Diagnostics about the profession; and secondly, a reference, strong, public, and efficient, was to be allowed to agree to a plan for the jobs of which it is necessary to be a functional system. With the agents, with those who have been trained and expert in these matters, with users, with workers, with the unions: with all of them. To make the way he ought to go, to be what he ought to be, it must be our business to make this dispute about the profession, because the people are built among them all. We must define where the profession is, and where it goes, what it is and what it must be. It is essential, to attain this reform, to invent it in the analysis of the situation we need, and to arrive at some agreement. In this sense, we have heard too much auto-combination in these days, and it is natural that each of us should try to defend his own, but we think we must get out of it. The moment is perfect. Socialists see the need of reform, we are going to build a new frame. They tell us every time the presbytery of their work. The political groups which are in this legislature are also agreed upon this condition of reform. But now it is time to pass from word to word, from every one to his own care, from you and from us. There are a great number of evaluations that have been made about the profession: It has been mentioned before that the head physician of Toña has foretold it at his own time, and that even the builders of society have a diagnosis of their situation, and that even those who do these things have a diagnosis. Let's put them all on the table and get to work. Let us deal with the social builders, with those who are expert and active in these matters, with the workers of the profession, with the people of the country, with the people of the country, and with all those who are interested in the matter. Let's agree on this path sheet. Let's get this reform plan together. Let us identify the tools of the profession, and let the means be placed in the budgets to make that reform which the profession requires. Let us examine all things, and open all disputes, with some transparency. Let's discuss whether the RGI should be managed at the Profession, whether this management should be done by orientors or not. I wanted to end it by saying that we think we've made a great deal of it. I understand that this agreement may make the work of the Government more complicated in a degree, but I believe we have established the best grounds for this next reform. And in that you will not hesitate, you will have us escorted by those terms, my lady Artola generous. At last a little allusion. I think the deal was very fat, and very good, to get to the next one, but I wanted to talk about it right now. They're in a very disturbing situation, and with this change of place in the officials the future of the professional work of various orientators is shaken. I sincerely hope that this path which we have agreed on today, this way of extensive agreements, may be an opportunity to solve this question of oriental persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u60	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning again. It is not a small thing to all of us in this or in this case to come to a large agreement. We have to recognise that we have a problem, a serious problem in the form of the Basque Employment Service, insofar as we have a tool that has not been useful, that has not been effective. It has not been useful for the thousands and thousands of people who are out of work with a clear will to return to the employment circuit but who, however, have not achieved their goal and have been forced to resort to social assistance to cope with their personal situation. A problem which has been discussed even in this House, and which has also had improvement chapters or proposals for improvement, which have not yet been met at all. A fact which highlights the need for comprehensive reform and which requires something substantial, I understand: compromise. The commitment expressed by the Government and initialled through the agreement between the two parties that support it, to address without delay the reform and modernization of Lanbide. For the Basque socialists, social inclusion and the fight against poverty require the utmost effort on the part of the institutions. A one-way effort aimed at ensuring equal opportunities for the citizens of this country. A shared, unlimited effort, also focused on the training of people and their promotion in access to the labour market, especially those who for one reason or another are further away from the labour market. Lanbide must first and foremost be a guarantee, a guarantee and a useful and effective tool to provide the unemployed and unemployed with the means to get out of their situation. It must be a guidance tool, a driving force in the implementation of training tools for employment, a platform to support entrepreneurship. And, of course, it must be the entity that manages the financial benefits for income-guarantee income earners. A service that must ensure social activation through inclusion in the labour market. And that is where we must focus to a large extent on the objectives of such reform. Today, 90% of Lanbide's resources are invested in GIR. There is, therefore, a real deficit in the real task of the Basque Employment Service-Lanbide, which is nothing other than the intermediation of work and the search for access to a job for its users. Lanbide cannot and should not be limited to being a mere manager of GIR. That is why this debate needs to be dealt with without delay. That is why a reform is needed that puts the emphasis on the actual conversion of Lanbide into an employment service where mediation, guidance and training are the basis. The Basque Socialists are firmly committed to a Basque employment service that is universal, that is inclusive, that is an activator. A service that maintains the link of social economic benefits to employment, because it is precisely activation for employment that is the best way out of social exclusion, and in a very special way in these times of crisis. This must be the basis for tackling this reform, a need for reform that has, if possible, become much more pronounced as a result of the crisis and the significant increase in the number of recipients and users of this service. It is therefore necessary, and more than necessary, to open this debate, and we must do so together, with the social and economic actors, recovering the spirit of dialogue, of consensus; with the same consensus that made possible the launch of Lanbide and that unfortunately, as I said at the beginning, has not been as effective as we all would have liked. Nor can this reform obviate the local dimension of employment policies. We must also tackle this reform from the local level, close by, of contact with those closest to our citizens, such as local authorities, municipalities, regional development agencies. We must share objectives with them, define commitments, criteria for action, especially in those areas that are experiencing the worst, in those regions and localities where unemployment strikes with the most violence. We must balance each and every one of the regions of Euskadi, thus eliminating the black spots of the Basque work map. The objective of this reform must be to focus in a special way on a more intensive follow-up to the most sensitive groups, to those who, by their circumstances, require greater commitment from the institutions. Lanbide must be a guarantee in accompanying the search for employment for the more than 30,000 young people who are currently unemployed, and especially for those who left their studies prematurely. For women, with emphasis on lifelong learning. For the more than 10,000 long-term unemployed, over 45 years of age, focusing the greatest effort on those who have been thrown into unemployment in the last stage of their working life as a result of employment regulation files. And, of course, all income-guarantee income earners who are in the process of improving their employability. Or even those workers who still need, despite having a job, GIR, in the search for an improvement in their working conditions; conditions that allow them to live decently, without the need to benefit from any kind of benefit. Lanbide must therefore be a driving force for encouraging recruitment, and particularly for those groups who need the direct involvement of the institutions, and must also be a driving force in the implementation of training plans, as a direct way of achieving quality and qualified jobs. It is necessary for Lanbide to lead the implementation, as well as the development, of an appropriate system of recognition and accreditation of professional competences, a key instrument for the certification of the qualifications of all workers. It is therefore urgent to look for qualification measures for each and every long-term worker who is unemployed right now, enabling them to recognise their professionalism, which, having developed an entire working life, is in an unemployment situation. Lanbide should provide training tools to improve the training of the unemployed and unemployed; personalized training, directed from guidance services. It should promote continuing training programmes that enable workers to re-adapt and update their knowledge. It must make a decisive strategic commitment to dual vocational training processes, with direct, decisive involvement of both training centres and companies. Training tailored to the needs of these companies, but always with a commitment to recruitment by them. Training which should also directly affect the improvement of the competitiveness of enterprises and the consolidation of stable, trained and quality employment. Also a Lanbide with well-trained, qualified and specialized professionals in all areas of service performance. All this, as I said at the beginning, is based on dialogue and consensus among political forces, social actors and economic actors. A consensus needed to take a firm and decisive step in order to develop a real, effective reform that makes Lanbide a useful tool, a service really focused on the implementation of active employment policies. A universal Basque Employment Service, as I said before, integrator, activator, engine in the fight against unemployment, and not a mere social aid manager. A service that meets the needs of this country and, above all, of its workers. It is therefore important that, since the start of this legislature, we all get to work on that reform that Lanbide needs, because it is the duty of the public administrations, in this case the Government, to offer answers to these workers with policies of real insertion, guidance and training for the search for the best job suited to their abilities and allowing them a decent wage. In conclusion, the agreement that we have reached today in an almost unanimous, very majority, in this House I believe it is a firm step, a good basis for tackling from responsibility that reform of Lanbide that we all want and expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u61	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Akiancia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u62	Thank you, ma'am. Chief bureau, congressmen, good morning to all. No doubt this government has the priority of employment. From what we see in the Chamber today, it seems to be one of the principal concerns of parliamentary groups, and the group that protects the Government, both of those who promote and control it from opposition. Undoubtedly, a shared priority. This priority takes place in two challenges: unemployment rates descending 10% and getting a better job, higher quality. When we want to address this issue, we cannot do so without a clear strategy. And we see that this Government has defined its strategy, a strategy based on sound principles: equity, efficiency, territorial balance, participation and consensus, transparency. Mrs Guanche, the Government does not forget these principles, it has never forgotten, at any time. As we move forward on this challenge, we will certainly face threats; some of them can already be clearly observed: the demographic deficit and ageing of our population, the increased competence of emerging countries, the chronisation of unemployment among people with lower qualifications, and other threats will appear to us in this progress. Even so, we will also have clear opportunities to take advantage of: generational empowerment, the potential of women, older people and young people and young people to contribute to work, the greater contribution of working people within companies, in their enterprises, and the more transparent management of these, the development of the new labour sectors and new technologies, their new areas of opportunity, the attraction of external productive investment, the attraction of talent, education, training and employment systems in connection with greater anticipation and orientation to the needs of the productive fabric. This government has already defined the six main lines of action in the Basque Employment Strategy 2020: activation; skills and competences; generation of opportunities; equal opportunities; quality employment; and, of course, an effective and efficient Basque employment system that offers value services. This Government will improve the current Basque Employment Service so that it integrates all employment-related policies and offers services that are more responsive to the needs of individuals and businesses. In order to reform and modernise the Public Employment Service, the Government will provide Lanbide with tools to strengthen the role of guidance, training and integration in the labour market, giving priority to support in the search for employment to groups with greater difficulties, and to the design of individualized job integration routes. This reorganisation will address collaboration with social services for the evaluation and management of economic benefits of a social nature, with the aim of optimizing the activation and integration of the workers of the perceptors, avoiding their chronification in situations of social marginalization. This is one of the main axes of our government agreement, and this government is going to improve Lanbide, strengthening and modernizing it. Since the initiatives that we are debating today and the corresponding amendments have been recorded, so far, to my mind, there have been issues to highlight: in addition to the contacts held by the parliamentary groups, intense contacts, the appearance of the councilwoman in committee on the 18th to present the general lines of action of her department for this parliamentary term. Within these essential lines of action he highlighted, among others, the chapter destined for Lanbide, as you have already commented. I would like to use approaches developed by the adviser as the backbone of this intervention, three mainly: identification of room for improvement; consensus, second, on this approach of reform and modernisation, and participation of all. Determination of margin of improvement. At first, the counselor did not see the negative factors attributed to Lanbide in her management. Factors which – I have no doubt either – have influenced their action, but which are largely (to a large extent) due to the fact that the service was launched at the most critical time of the long economic crisis. A very young tool, as has been recalled here, in very adverse circumstances. This is objective, and it is not hollow justification. Even so, we can see that the Spanish State itself qualifies Lanbide as the best employment service in the State. I just see it. Or, when we look at the rates of intermediation, we see that we are far above the average of the autonomous communities. Yes – here too it has been said – with 3,27 %. Yes, it is true, Mrs Garrido, also far from the 5% that we had set ourselves as a target, yes, it is true, but it is also true that the trend of increase in this index is very positive. It's data. It's data, Mrs. Kortajarena. It's data, it's not self-congratulation. It's data. Nor do I have any doubt that Lanbide has progressively brought its performance model into line with European standards and the changing situation of recent years, all this being demonstrated by the audits carried out by the European Commission. But it is not enough, indeed, it is not enough. For us it is not enough, for this government this is not enough. This isn't enough for the counselor. We aim to be a European benchmark in promoting quality employment. That's our margin for improvement. Take responsibility, Mrs. Garrido? This is to assume responsibilities: to make this analysis, to determine that margin of improvement, and to start working from that moment on. The second issue I wanted to move is important here: consensus. Ensuring a high level of consensus in the reform and modernization of Lanbide is essential, and it is therefore essential to pursue as broad an agreement as possible with social and economic actors. Here that idea has developed as well. And to that end, the image that we have before this House today, or from this House, is essential. The image we give from this House. That there are four signatures stamped in this transactional agreement is, at first, in my opinion, good news for Lanbide. It's a shame it's not five, but at first it's good news, and it's good news for all citizens. I'm pushing for consensus. Third question I wanted to move you, participation. In addition to the impulse, the impulse of initiation, we need this modernisation of Lanbide to feed on content that will help us to push further, to move further. Mrs Garrido, of course this is not the last time we are going to discuss Lanbide. It would be bad if this was the last time we went to discuss Lanbide. That's participation! That's participation. And in that process of participation there is no one left, Mrs. Garrido. There's no one left. We are all necessary, not excluded. The Basque Government is already in progress, the adviser herself informed us that meetings and contacts were already being held with the various agents of the company, the social sector and the labour organizations. A good starting agreement. I believe that we must also recognise, as has been done here, the work of the Lanbide professionals. The work that the parliamentary groups have done these days must be acknowledged. I recognize him. I recognize dedication, empathy, the ability to get involved or try to understand each other's arguments. Because we all contribute, we all have to contribute in this process. So, here, serve that detail towards that participation in this House as well. I would like to invite the People's Party, Mrs Garrido, to join this text with her vote. It is a text that objectively, Mrs Garrido, clearly exceeds its original text, its initial text. Improvement, consensus, participation, this is what is signed, this is what this Government is going to comply with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u63	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Passing the answer shift, representing the Basque Potula Group. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u64	Thank you, Madam President. To start with the end, then, Mr Aiartza, as this Government fulfils its commitments as it did with the commitments and proposals that Mr Aburto pointed out to us four years ago at his first appearance, where he was speaking to us, he explained to us the general lines to be followed by his department for four years, that this councillor, the new councillor, has had to repeat them again at his first appearance, because, of course, we do not have much credibility in this Government, nor much faith. I still regret that the lehendakari, the lehendakari of a government that is constantly fencing, and in its debate of investiture in this House, that the priority of this government is employment and people, for, in a debate that has to do with employment, the main concern of the Basque citizens, still – it will have more important things to do – but it has not appeared in this debate. I imagine he's coming to vote. Mrs Guanche, when you talk about shortcomings, from the People's Group we believe that we are not talking about mere shortcomings. When active employment policies were transferred in 2011, it was a real opportunity to connect the economic benefits provided for in the Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act, social assistance, to employability, and that government has failed. Therefore, we are not talking about simple retouching. And, yes, it must be reformed, of the Kortha, but not all reforms: Integral reform, deep and deep. And that's why Popular Party has proposed reform, this special plan of reform, the Jest Party and the government of the Urkullus hasn't done anything in the last four years. Man, Mr. Andueza, I'm surprised that you say that you're still with the problem, that Lanbide must be useful, that you can't be a mere manager of GIR. And, well, you have surprised me more than, being a partner of government of the government of Mr Urkullu, and sharing responsibilities of government the Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, you tell me here today, in this rostrum, of an integral reform, when the other day Mrs Artolazabal took charge, and on questions from this parliamentarian, of denying that an integral reform was to be made in Lanbide. He said clearly: "He has moved that we have announced a comprehensive reform of Lanbide, and I have not announced a comprehensive reform of Lanbide. A reform of Lanbide's upgrade and modernization will be carried out." Man, it's shocking that this is what the counselor says. First of all, there is the discrepancy in terminology, in the qualification to use or add to the type of reform we have to do, but, of course, it strikes because – as I say, and I have said in my first intervention – when the advisor and people with important responsibilities in the previous government, such as the advisor who said that companies are passing from Lanbide or that his children would not be aiming at Lanbide, of course we are not talking, counselor and Mr Urkullu – which I regret is not here today – about a simple reform of Lanbide. We're not talking about touchdowns, patches that try to cover up their inaction during these four years. You have done nothing for four years, and the most obvious proof of this is that today, on the one hand, we have to bring this debate to this House, after six years of Lanbide's walk, that we are not talking about an agency with a long walk, and after you repeated the same commitments and proposals as Mr Aborto in your appearance. But you and your Government, the Government in which you are, bring these proposals here, that clearly shows and sees that you have done nothing for four years; that you have spent four years blank. They have a fundamental tool to put it at the service of Basque citizens and have wasted their time. And the problem is that we have wasted all the Basque citizens, with your government, during these four years. That is why we are not now going to endorse an agreement that seeks to put patches, an agreement that does not really put the duties that must be placed on this government, and of course an agreement that does not speak of an in-depth reform of Lanbide. An agreement that spreads over time, when I reminded you that you have been in government for several months now, and that your predecessor in office at the last appearance announced to us that there was a study, that there was an expert report. Where is that expert report, which could be a starting point? It is that with the agreement that you have reached in this House we are leaving more than a year away, and I sincerely believe that the Basque citizens have already wasted a great deal of time with this government, putting in place effective measures to ensure that Lanbide works, that it fulfils its mandated objectives, that it combats fraud, abusive situations, that it really puts employability at the service of the Basque citizens, that it connects economic benefits with employment, and, ultimately, that it makes a fair, sustainable and supportive system, which is what we all deserve.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u65	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Together represent the Podemos team. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u66	Well, I did not realize before, Mrs Garrido, that, without precedent, we agree on one of the things you have said, but it is clear that we do not agree on the substance. We have understood, that we may have misunderstood, that you suggest that the contact or involvement of the agents is not important. It's essential to us. In this regard, we believe that, instead of four months, the six-month deadline can introduce the possibility of more and better participation. It may be a mistake, but in our view the precise participation of time. In any case, Mrs Garrido, I believe that in my presentation it has been quite clear that the shortcomings I contemplate are fundamental and silent. They are not mere anecdotes or other issues. We find it interesting that the main concern of this Government is employment. For us the main concern that any government should have are people and their needs. In any case, I congratulate Mr Andueza and Mr Aiartza, because I am really happy to hear them here recognizing that Lanbide does not work. I understand that the parties that support the Government are those that have some responsibility for this. I know that in order to reach this agreement we have all left hairs in the catera, and that is always appreciated, but that no one thinks or that no one assumes that this means a renunciation of the bottom of what we believe needs to be transformed and that it is urgent to transform. We understand that this agreement is an urgent and necessary starting point for Basque citizenship. Mr. Aiartza, I think there are things we don't agree on. That you recognize a margin of improvement by hitting each other in the shoulder sounds unbelievable, and I think that the people who are unemployed, who pass needs, need their margin of improvement to be recognized without hesitation and that we stop taking breasts because the last of the class has put us an outstanding. I was already commenting on it the other day at the counselor's appearance, and I repeat it today: to do that is to walk justly from a glance. And, finally, the eleven women parliamentarians of Elkarrekin We have come to work for the citizenry. We haven't come here to make hollow speeches or win a game. We have come to seek that Basque citizenship has in this case a quality Basque employment service and that their rights are recognized and guaranteed. And from here we continue to reach out to as many agreements as we understand it is necessary to take. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Unite the EH team as representative. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u68	Thanks again. I'll answer briefly because I think our team's position has been very clear about this subject. But I would say to Jon Aardz that I shall not be disturbed in the data, for the data he offers his professions, from the point where they look, are not capable of any joy. And even comparisons are not very suitable in such a case, because in education we look to Finland and in business and business matters, chance, we content ourselves with being the best employment service in the state. Well, not us, and I've mentioned it before. And I'd say to Mrs Garridio that it's a shame to avoid this agreement by the Popula, because I think the profession requires a thorough reform, and I've explained it in my interference. But I won't begin to describe what some of the others, all those around RGI, don't seem to me to be the subject of today. But we're going to do it, and we'll be doing it for a long and deep time. I have made it very clear to me that we want a public, solid, refractory, effective, and transparent employment, which, moreover, will answer the necessities of each person, which will place men in the midst of it, that will be a matter of reference and pride. And that's why you're ready for us to work. I have nothing else to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u70	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Look, Mrs Garrido, I think this is not a question of qualification. You've thrown away practically all the initial speech and in the replica qualifying what Lanbide has been. Do me a favor, look to the future. Look to the future. Join us, that great agreement which four parliamentary groups represented in this House have reached to move forward, not to look to the past, not to repeat the mistakes, but to seek solutions to improve, as I said, a Basque employment service which I believe we have all recognised is not working properly. Do not underestimate the work of all the people, the workers of Lanbide who are leaving their skins to carry out that service. And please don't generalize fraud. You have come with this non-legislative proposal supposedly to talk about the Basque Employment Service, and you have discovered yourself. In the end, much of his speech has been about GIR. You really came to talk about RGI, and don't put it on the line. The Basque Employment Service, as I said in my first speech, must be a tool of employability, of employment promotion, not a mere social aid manager, and you alone have been discovered. But let me say one thing: above all, do not go from employment-generating adalides, when the People's Party Government is the main guillotine, through its labour reform, of the curtailment of the rights of millions of workers in this country. Allow me to ask you, please, that, in the future, if you want to breastfeed, do so, but please do so in a much more modest way. I repeat to you again, what I ask you to do is to contribute, to help us, to cooperate, to make this way with the various parliamentary groups that we have agreed to move forward, not to qualify, as I said before. It is not time to continue to take stock of what has happened four years ago, because we have all done so in our first intervention, and briefly it has been enough to agree and acknowledge that the Basque Employment Service is not effective, not efficient. You, as I said, have not come to talk about employment. You have come to talk about the essence of your speech, about the demonization of the thousands of Basques and Basques who are perceiving an RGI, and you generalize, and it seems absolutely unfair to me. He said that, at last, he thinks this is a patch. Finally, I believe that each and every one of the speakers at this point has put on the table what we considered to be the way forward, which must be the contributions that each and every one of us must make to make this Basque Employment Service efficient enough. I invite you to do so too, because at no time have you told us what the Basque Employment Service-Lanbide wants, let alone what the tools or the path you are going to follow to improve that service are going to be. I don't think it's a patch. I believe that this agreement is a great agreement, an important agreement. I believe that this is a fundamental step, a very important basis for starting to work on what I do consider to be a comprehensive reform of Lanbide and a reform and modernization of Lanbide. And the Counsellor will consider that this is not an integral reform of Lanbide, everyone will be able to qualify it as they wish, but I will tell you one thing: what you will never be able to question is the commitment neither of my party nor of the Basque Nationalist Party, nor, of course, of the Government, which through an agreement, through a pact, has demonstrated its firm will to improve, reform and modernize the Basque service of Lanbide. I really regret that you have not joined this agreement today, and Mr Aiartza told you in the first speech, because I think it would have been very positive, it would have been very enriching, and because, above all, I believe that the agreement that we have reached goes far beyond even what you said. In any case, I hope that this is a great first step, a great first agreement of the many that we will be able to reach on this issue, in this matter, if we are truly willing to work from honesty, from sincerity and, above all, from the firm will to improve a service that I believe is a fundamental tool, especially for the unemployed in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u71	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Akiancia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u72	Mrs Garrido, I am sure we will continue to discuss this issue. I have no doubt at all, I'm sure. I am also sure that we have discussed earlier on many occasions. And you try to give an image that others don't move, when I really think it's just the opposite image. I think it's just the opposite image. A partner likes to talk a lot about Marmot Day; really I, listening to you, was on Marmot Day today. In your speech, not in the debate, you were on Marmot Day. I'm not going to qualify your speech much more, but I do know it: list of adjectives that are changing places, list of people who have had responsibilities, to come to a conclusion that is something like "four years blank". No, he knows it's not. Nor am I going to get into an approach to this. Faced with this approach of yours, I am not going to go into an approach of overrun data, twisted data. I agree with Mrs. Kortajarena on that. But it is clear that there are some data, and I will give a very concrete one, a very concrete data (and we are talking about employment, eh!, we are talking about employment), the index of effectiveness in employment, those people who have passed through Lanbide and who, after having provided them with that service, arrive at employment contract: in 2013 14.7%, in 2015 28%. It's published, it's published. That is a clear question, for those people it is a clear question. For these people, Lanbide is an effective tool. Mrs. Guanche, I have not said at any time that Lanbide does not work. I haven't said it at any time. I'll check again, but I'm sure that even if I did, I didn't say so. I have said that Lanbide has a margin of improvement, which is what we take up in our agreement, and it is a margin of improvement which has also been recognised since the Commissioner in committee's intervention. It is recognized that there is a capacity for improvement, but I have never said it does not work. Besides, I couldn't say it, because it would be missing the truth, it would be missing what I really think and what I really see, and what I really move. Responsibility for employment. This Government has always determined its responsibility for employment. And I said it in my previous speech, three keys: improvement, consensus and participation. It is excellent news that today that approach is also reflected in this House with that majority support. The aim of this government, the objective of this House, I think it is shared: to be a reference, that Lanbide be that European reference in promoting quality employment, I think it is shared. And that first step is essential. This first step, this first impulse, is essential to our understanding. Really, it's a shame that picture of four minus one. An image of five would be ideal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u73	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Now that the discussion has ended, we shall first vote on the original text of the proposition as of the Euskal Potula Group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the partisans of 9; the contrary,66; white, 0; abscession, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u74	Original text therefore not allowed. Next, the Basque Socialists, together the Podemos, the EH, and the Euperarians, shall vote for the intermediate corrections which have been signed by the Teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters of 66; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u75	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. Five point in theme list: "The same proposition as the patrioticist and Basque Socialists made by parlamentary groups, as is the case with the order of human rights on the board of Eukadinary memory and co-habitation. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Representative of the Basque Socialists has the word to present and defend. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u76	Thank you, President. Until yesterday, and for half a century, there were Basque citizens who decided to organize themselves to murder other citizens, Basques or other places in Spain, because they considered them enemies without rights or dignity. There were Basque citizens, and from other places in Spain, who responded to this aggression since illegality, considering the first enemies deprived of human rights and dignity. Even before yesterday too, and for half a century, there were Basques who suffered some or others, even Basques who suffered some and others. And Basque and Spanish citizens, the vast majority, who lived far away from that reality, who knew it through the newspapers or on the front pages of the newspapers. Today there are no Basques threatened in their lives for having an opinion, for military in a party or for discriminating, but there are citizens who continue to demand justice, who continue to demand memory, who continue to demand the truth. That they continue to demand that they be removed from any imaginary that could ever have been any reason, one, to justify the murder of their relatives, the threat, the fear lived in their own flesh. No political reason, no State reason. And let the whole of society (who suffered, who consented, who applauded, or even who did not even feel concerned) understand this, because only that radical delegitimization establishes the ground from which to build the coexistence of the future and vaccinate us against any future temptation to use violence again. That is the conviction with which the Socialists want to open a forum that works from the discretion, from the rigour and the ethical principles that cannot be renounced, so that those of us who represent the citizens will be able to reach agreements on outstanding issues, and that we will also be able to share them with the rest of Spain and with its Government. Because it seems essential to us that the Government of Spain, as it has done at times in the past, is involved in this outstanding task. The Socialists did not see that future coexistence should be built regardless of the victims, of whom they have suffered. That is why we want the People's Party to be, Mr Semper. We would very much like you to be here, because we have shared with you that very trench of resistance to harassment and terror, defending our political positions even if we wanted to eliminate our electoral ballots by bombing and shooting. Beyond some statements that we do not share, and political attitudes that we disagree with, we breathe the same freedom on the day that five years ago ETA said it would no longer kill. And we share this new life with many people: with university professors, with judges, with journalists, with businessmen, with prison officials, with agents from different police forces. Nor did we conceive that future coexistence should be built regardless of the radical delegitimization of terror, that of the past. Not rejecting it, not: delegitimizing it, undressing it from any context, from any explanation that could make sense of what happened. Because memory of the victims without delegitimization of the victims would be, purely and simply, a fraud. And a fraud against the victims of terrorism, but also against the resilient and civil society that has fought against terrorism. And if in this House we all, without exception, assume this basis, we believe that we are being given an opportunity that we did not know how to take advantage of in the previous parliamentary term, to work on a cross-cutting agreement between the representatives of the Basques. Because terrorism suffered and the crisis of coexistence, as well as its possible exits, have been a problem between Basques, between Basques who wanted to live and think as they wanted and Basques who did not want to allow it. It was never a political conflict against an invading state, no. As we have already pointed out, what we do here must also be understood and accompanied by the institutions of the Government of Spain. That is why it is important for us in this paper that we propose to work, in addition to on ethical bases, from rigour, from consensus and from discretion, because we want to regain confidence and translate them into agreements. It is true that there are many outstanding issues that are going to be alien to what the political representatives say. Only ETA, for example, is responsible for announcing its final dissolution. And it's getting late. The disappearance of that band is a desire shared by the Democrats, which we refuse to allow anyone with weapons to pretend to protect political decisions, even if it does so as if it were a spectrum. We again demand the complete and definitive disappearance of him today. And we have other tasks to do. It is up to us to continue listening to the victims; to those who are organized in associations and those who are not organized; to the close to three hundred families who continue to demand clarification of who killed their relatives, without those who participated or knew it helping them to close that full account that they need to close that chapter, and also to those who suffered violations of their rights for illegitimate abuse of power. It is also up to us to find a way for those prisoners who want to break their past, but also for those who, even if they refuse to do so, will end up serving their sentences, and when they go out on the street they will meet that society that they attacked in their day. They will find that they did not achieve any political achievement from those they wanted to impose, and that everything that has been able to move forward in Euskadi has been possible because others use the only force that we have, which the citizens grant us in the ballot box. We have to make it possible for them to understand their failure, so that they can reintegrate into an Euskadi which is just the opposite of what they wanted it to be: a plural, diverse Euskadi, where each one feels like it gives us the will, where each one votes what he wants, and where those who think differently try to find what unites us for the progress of all, with their flaws and virtues. We do not intend to have a debate here today on the differences that we may have in this area, because we know that we have them. What we want is to open this paper to find just the opposite, which can unite us. And that is why I am not going to disqualify the amendments that can be made by other groups. The PP offers us a name for the paper that rescues an idea of a person from his own party who has not long since ceased to be the leader of this party. Well, it seems to us that uniting memory and coexistence, as we do, is precisely to take into account those who have suffered in the past to build the future. Bildu told us about adding the term "peace", and for us peace was what so many people could not do in Euskadi for decades: to lower the trash, to ride a bicycle, to go out of wine with friends, to take their children to school... Now it can be done. This is peace. This is peace. What we must do is build a process of coexistence that culminates in overcoming hatred, fanaticism, because there are leftovers – few, but there are – in certain areas and environments of society, as we have seen not long ago. As for Elkarrekin Podemos, full of contents the paper on an agenda that could always be nuanced, but I am pleased that we have all been able to find a meeting point to endorse the constitution of this paper. Our past is very painful, unfortunately, and has many positive things. Among these, the ability we come to have at other times, with terror beating the lives of so many people, to reach transversal agreements that from the legality, ethics and complicity of the victims allowed us to give up ETA. That is the reference we at least have to get to work on this paper. We have never made a decision in this area thinking about electoral revenue at the polls, and we had reason to have been able to do so. Those that we take in the future will also not respond to any electoral calculation, only to an ethical conviction of rejection of any violation of rights, an express rejection of ETA's terror, an express rejection of those who used ETA's excuse to abuse its power. And also with a commitment, that of memory, truth, justice and reparation of the victims, without equidistance or parallels, but also without exclusions of any kind. And with a clear will: let us not leave an unremembered country in inheritance, because that forgetfulness would be a new injustice for all of them, and that what we do serves to prevent anyone in this country from ever finding political excuses to annihilate the different. That is why we ask the groups of the House..., and I again congratulate myself on the broad (unfortunately not total, Mr Semper, but very broad) agreement of this House, which opens the door to this possibility of a paper which I believe is very important for this society.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u77	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u78	Mrs. President, Mr. President, members of the legislature. To build the future, the past must be well known. The people who don't know their history have the risk of repeating the mistakes that have happened in the past, and we want a solid building. Any building requires strong columns, and to build co-operation, is an indispensable memory. We know that in this town, we've been through a lot of violence for decades. This has entirely conditioned our life, as well as our political discussion and the initiative of our institutions. In the former legislation, in this legislature, a great labour has been made to resist violence. First of all, to confess and observe the victims. While terrorism was in the fluke, we had to confess victims and start the policies for the memory building. This is a model for us compared with other nations who have suffered political violence throughout the world. We took the most significant step from the point of view of legislation in June 2008, when we accepted the victim of terror and the law of the Reformation. Then, having announced the end of the armed action in 2011, the necessity of continuing in the field of memory and comradeship was manifest, since peace is not only a privation of violence. So we created memory, co-operation and Human Rights Institute and set it up in action. And at the end of the previous law, we accepted the law to acknowledge and observe the victims of police abuse. Still, it's still necessary to continue working on the field of normalizing each other's life. One must face three things that are waiting: And you're armed and you're going to destroy it once and for all, adapting the prison policy and accepting the critical memory of the past. We have been facing the challenge of building memory and coexistence in Euskadi for years, years of work to deal with terrorism and violence, years of developing policies to deal with its consequences, to recognize and repair the victims. We have made a great deal of progress in this Parliament. It began many years ago with the presentations of victims, then presided over by whom today is lehendakari; we have had presentations of peace and coexistence, and now, at this moment, we are putting forward the constitution of the presentation of memory and coexistence. In the last parliamentary term, in April 2013, we set out a goal that calls us once again today, bringing together all ideological sensitivities around a debate that remains as necessary today as it was then: to consolidate peace, build coexistence and strengthen memory. That working group, it is true, was soon caught, and had a short tour in this Parliament. We knew then that its management would be complicated and difficult. It was. And now we see that it still is. I understand that, it has been many decades of terrorism, violence, pain, suffering, and it is clear that this is neither resolved nor overcome overnight. The wounds are still open. To heal them will take time, we understand, but it is our duty to persevere. It's our duty. This is also our responsibility. We would make a serious mistake if we were to falsely close the story or disagree with this public duty. We want a country in peace and united, without bitterness and without hatred. We want to heal the wounds; we want and we need to heal the wounds. We're in the middle of it. We must respond and contribute to the necessary steps being taken. And more located and more steps, logically, those who have been closer to violence. The presentation presented in 2013 was useful as an instrument to consolidate the new open time following the announcement of the abandonment of armed activity by ETA; however, four years ago the conditions were not given to facilitate a sincere and plural dialogue. I would like to think that today, four years later, following the progress made, we will be able to assume that this parliamentary forum is our natural space for that sincere, plural, critical and constructive dialogue. The frustrated experience of the past leaves us with a teaching: we must recognize that if we are confronted with attitudes of the past, if we cling to the terminology that separates us, we will never be able to move forward. It will continue to be society that advances us, that passes us, that offers us examples of dialogue, understanding and overcoming. It deserves to build co-operation with memory. It is worth all of us to step forward, without opportunity, in order to find a future partnership for everyone's good. It is necessary that one should take care of one's own, and assume a minimum of ethical life, which is indisputable: it must be acknowledged that all violence and terrorism were unjust. The partnership ought to be founded on solid principles; memory, respect for victims, and the defence of all human rights. Let us show a new spirit: Listen to what unites us, and we work for the future. Building coexistence with memory deserves us all to take a step as well. Peace must not be understood simply as the absence of violence, there are more steps to take: the passage from disarmament and the definitive dissolution of ETA, the step from recognition of the unjust damage caused, and the step must also be taken to bring prison policy into line with this new reality. The Spanish Government can support reintegration initiatives. It is therefore up to us to work, to seek, to facilitate paths of union; new paths that, while respecting human rights, lead us to normalized coexistence. We set out to take steps without calculation of opportunity, looking for the common good of future coexistence, but we also place duties on ourselves. Looking to the future cannot make us forget the past; we must assume our own responsibility, accept that there is an unquestionable minimum ethical, acknowledge that all violence and terrorism was unjust, was ultimately illegitimate. The future of coexistence must be based on sound principles: memory, respect for victims, and the defence of all human rights. That's how we see it, that's how we want it, and that's how we wanted to move it here today with this non-law proposal. We do so with clarity and hope. We want this presentation to become a plural space for dialogue. An open dialogue, without veto, without limits; a sincere and responsible dialogue; a dialogue firmly established on the basis of human rights and democratic principles. And we don't start from scratch. In July 2012, this Parliament demonstrated the capacity to agree on a firm basis, a basis that we reaffirm today, a resolution that we read carefully today and ratify in its entirety. Peace and coexistence require recognition of injustice, violence and harm, and the dignity of the victims, all of whom deserve truth, justice and reparation. This ethical soil is the embryo from which to advance towards a more extensive and plural consensus. It's a common, firm soil. We know that we have to move further, that we have to go further. We can do so with certainty; only a constructive attitude and a shared will are needed. We know, indeed, that there may be discrepancies, that there are and are legitimate. We must also share them, because we have the natural forum for dialogue. Let us show a new attitude, set out our proposals, and listen to others. Let's show a new spirit. Listening, supporting what unites us, and working on the future, that is the attitude and spirit that have guided us in agreeing on a compromise with most of the groups in this House that we are submitting to you. Even if we tried, we didn't make a unanimous agreement. It is not a complete agreement, but an extensive agreement, which represents the great majority of this legislature. We're going to perform all the proposals proposed by the parliamentary groups of society, and that's the key to proceed. One's purpose must not be the initial condition and that's the key to advance. It is a space to search for poetry and agreements, our natural place of discussion, the plural and shared. The space to stop coming and moving forward. The place where we discuss and agree, which is open to everyone. A place to move forward, boldly, to build a peaceful and vital future. That's what we all want and what we owe to this country, what we want and what this country deserves. It is an agreement which, despite the efforts made, has not been able to be unanimous. This amendment has sought to integrate the concerns reflected in the amendments tabled by all parliamentary groups. It is not a complete agreement, but it is a very broad agreement, which welcomes the vast majority of this Parliament. And I would like to acknowledge the sincere efforts of all the parliamentary groups, and particularly Elkarrekin Podemos and Euskal Herria Bildu, whom I thank for the agreement reached. The key to progress is to admit that the presentation will address all the proposals put forward by the different groups. The key to progress is not to establish as a starting point, as a starting condition, that which must be the very purpose of the paper. The paper is a space for dialogue and for seeking agreements. It's space, I'd say. The dialogue in the paper, the shared work, will allow us to identify the terminology and content keys that make it possible to translate this agreement in a consensual way, and then reflect it socially and politically. I conclude my speech as I have begun: to remember the recent past to avoid falling into the same mistakes that prevented us from moving forward; to assume that our duty is to risk, to move from our positions to make it easier for us all to walk together; to reiterate that we have an opportunity to move forward in a society capable of living together in peace and freedom. And in this task no one is left and we are all needed. The worst is stagnation, and it only leads to failure. The presentation is our natural, plural and shared forum. It is the space to disagree and to move forward, the space to debate and agree, the space open to all and all, the space in which we have decided to move forward with determination, to build the future of peace and coexistence that we all want and owe to this people. The future that we want and that this people deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u79	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections together, represent the Podemos team. Your word is broad.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. Good morning, Mr. Urkullu, congressmen. Hasteko, dandruffed dandruffed dandruffed hitz egin gabe egon naizela. Twenty-eight years without talking. You'll forgive me, but for me, this paper means a lot. And mainly I wanted to pay tribute to all those people who are not here today and for whom we have to work. For them and their families. I would like to speak to you today of this memory and co-operation and the importance of this ponciency. In this other proposition of the Law, upon the Committee of Human Rights, we must make a number of designs to strengthen the worship of Peace. To do this we must obtain the greatest agreement of all the parliamentary groups, to delegate all kinds of violence that have terrorism and political origin, to confess all the victims, to write a great deal of memory, and to obtain a different policy of prison, and of course to respect life, peace, freedom, and all human rights. In this state we must place all the privileges of human rights, which we have lived in our near history, upon the table, to know, to write, to examine, and to take the legal measures which are to be studied. In this law, understanding one another, putting it on the cover of others, whether we are all capable of repeating all this again. I'm sorry I got excited, but sometimes... People are human and we have the right to be excited, and I believe that politics must also be humanized. As I was telling you, I believe that the definition of the presentation of memory and coexistence can be summed up in that it is a plural space, where we are represented all the political forces, which are a reflection of what Basque society is, and what we have to do is to put on the table all the experiences that have occurred. And they are all, those of all the people we have suffered, that I am sure that in this House there are many people who have also suffered. And, of course, what we have to do is be able to look into our eyes, to listen to the other person, to understand what has happened, to listen to her without judging her, to respect what she thinks although we often disagree, because the experiences we have had are different. But, above all, the most important thing: from respect. From the respect and, of course, from the total and absolute defence of the human rights of all people, giving us the opportunity to know and recognize ourselves in the pain and unjust suffering that the other person has suffered for years and that we have sometimes ignored (we did not want to recognize that the other person suffered), we have sometimes despised silently, and, worse, has sometimes been supported even by laws that are neither just nor human. This is so simple and so hard at the same time some call it recognizing all victims without exception, building an inclusive memory, delegitimizing violence, critically reviewing the past, or building a democratic memory. We've been voted and we're serving people. And people want peace. And people want fellowship and memory, real memory. And what's real memory? What I said to you before: Put on the table all the events that have happened here. Even those things that hurt us so much. They also have happened, and because they have happened, we have to face them. All people and all victims have the right to truth, justice and reparation, but we must pay special attention to those who have suffered for years or decades from institutional or legal helplessness, and still continue to suffer today. I would like to read you a paragraph from the Eraikiz collective, to which I am fortunate to belong: "All victims, whatever sign they are, have the same right to justice, truth, memory, recognition, and reparation. The difference in treatment and consideration between victims, the unequal application of justice and prison enforcement, the lack of institutional recognition and the denial of these rights for some victims violate the value of justice and equal rights." We have a debt here. We have to confess all the victims and we have that debt. And what we have to do is to consider all these facts and all the victims, and to give them the assistance and observation they ought to have; and also to make sure that everything that has happened here will not happen again. That's our job, and I swear, Mr. President, I'll do everything I can in it. I want to insist on the term truth, the concept truth, the principle truth. And I want to insist because it's true, Pastor Jauna, they're duzun bezala. ETAko biktima asko daude oraindik jakin gabe, ezjakinean. Ez hori Bakarrik. There are also many people who have suffered from state terrorism, people who have suffered from the extreme right... All these cases are unclarified. Police abuse, too. The figure is not exactly known either. Horregatik, iruditzen zait that this legislature and this House, the presentation of memory and coexistence, should serve to put in place all the mechanisms sufficient and necessary for all these cases to be clarified, so that these victims also have access to their right to truth, justice and reparation. Therefore, I believe it would be important – and I have insisted more than once – to open the police files (the ones of the Civil Guard, the ones of the National Police, those of the French Gendarmerie, and also those of the Ertzaintza) and declassify the secret documents. All this would help to clarify many of these cases. It would also be desirable for those who had exercised violence to rectify and collaborate with the justice system. We are about to arrive at this perfection as a new political force, and with great zeal to set the policy of memory and co-operation. I must confess that in the previous law there was a great deal of work to do, and I am glad of it, too, in the precedent laws. And, above all, I would like to remark that the enterprises which have been carried forward between different victims. If they have been able to understand each other, how can we not be in this parliament? And so we would like to have all of you who are here to work on this power, to build among them the future, peace, co-existence, delegating terrorism, and all sorts of violence. You need it, too. Another challenge. The law of police abuse, which you attempted in your previous legislation, is rejected. That's why we're still working so we can go back to that situation. Eta Bakarrik esaldi batekin bukatu nahiko nuke nire agerraldia. Daniel Innerarityk esaten du: "Sentiments can be at the service of the renewal of democracies." Horrekin, nire sentimenduekin, nor is there any demokrazia hauek berritzeko. And only one more note: Let's humanize politics. We could live a lot better.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u82	I left it on. Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Lehendakari, advisers, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is that when we deal with these issues in this House today, it is all very full of feelings, of experiences, of our way of having known politics here in the Basque Country and how we have formed, of the experience also of those who have suffered, they have suffered the pain of the victims, on a day that has coincided with the anniversary of Gregory Ordóñez and the tribute given to him by this House to which he belonged, and which therefore also brings us this reflection, which for the People's Party remains very important, of what he said, of how he was, of the message he wanted to give. And when one remembers and honors a person who was unjustly murdered, and when one remembers a person who was murdered precisely because he was speaking, so that he would not speak, or that he would shut up, or that he would be afraid to say the things he was saying, and therefore that mantle of silence could be extended over the whole of Basque society, for to me comes, indeed, the reflection of what his life meant and why he chose to be free. Because Gregorio Ordóñez, like everyone else, we from my party, no one forced us into politics. We got into politics because we wanted to fight for freedom. And we already knew we had an alternative: "Hey, don't get involved in that; nothing's going to happen to you." Because for a long time in the Basque Country, in fact, if you didn't get involved in that, you didn't have anything to do with it, and one went down the street and even one was counting out "Here in Euskadi nothing happens; only some happen, those who get involved in politics or those who fight for a certain idea, and they are on a side that doesn't like a terrorist organization." (Or another terrorist organization, because we have had several terrorist organizations in Euskadi.) And for a long time that was the problem. Gregory didn't see the end of ETA. We're going to see the end of ETA, and we're looking at the end of ETA. And we're going to see the end of terrorism in Euskadi. He did not see it, but he contributed decisively to that end, because he dedicated his life and political effort precisely to delegitimizing terrorist action. And he devoted his best efforts to, with very harsh words, disqualifying ETA, and instead of looking elsewhere he looked them in the face. That's why they killed him in the back. But he looked them in the face, and he was very hard on them. E began a path of delegitimization that was gaining more and more space in Basque society and in the whole of Spanish society, mobilizing and cornering a terrorist organization that always had political support and very important social support in Euskadi. The question has been moved as to why ETA has lasted so long, why it has lasted so many decades. ETA lasted because it had support. ETA lasted because it had political support, social support, and because someone said killing was legitimate to try to impose its political project. ETA lasted because even those, many, who said it was not right to kill considered that ETA was defending a legitimate project. But the ETA project is not legitimate, and we cannot recognize it as such, kill or not kill, exercise or not exercise violence. What is specific in the Basque Country? And why did it last so long? Because here there has been social and political support for terrorism. And I think it is true that we need a presentation in the Basque Parliament. This is not new, there was already this same presentation in the last legislature. There were also the same absences in the last legislature. I am not going to say anything to Mr. Pastor, because it is true, we have shared many things together. Nor would I like to be harsh with the other groups, but particularly with the Socialist Party: they entered and had to leave the paper. What's different this time? There's nothing different! Only you're in the government today. That is the only difference from what happened in the last legislature. But what is specific in Euskadi? Who calls it still..., the flame will be extinguished, but the ransom is under there, that of those who continue to understand, legitimize and applaud terrorism. That the prisoners serve their sentences, leave the prisons, come to Euskadi and are received with tributes made to them by young adolescents of fifteen years of age in the Basque Institutes. How is that possible? Our obligation, if we want to build a future, is to work so that tomorrow the new generations of Basques, when they tell them that there were Basques who held the guns to kill other Basques because they thought differently, and because they wanted to impose a project, and because they wanted to liquidate the regime of democracy and freedoms that we had given ourselves... I want those Basques of the future to think that that was a shame and to radically reject it. And I don't want you to understand it, to see it in a context, to think that ETA is a part of history that made a certain contribution or that led a legitimate political movement by wrong means. I don't want you to think that. And that's what you still think! And that's what's still on the street! And that is what it does that, in order to make this presentation and that among those who want to enter, then, there are some things to be dispensed with. A minimum ethical requirement must be dispensed with. Therefore, the ethical soil doesn't matter, it can't be the goal of a paper. We've already come that way! It undoubtedly represents a step back and an involution in everything that had also advanced in this House, in what we had considered to be the ethical basis on which we were going to relate. It is now a demand that Bildu, on the left abertzale, be relieved of the group of parliamentarians who do not want to condemn ETA and say that their project is illegitimate and has to end. And that they do not want to recognize either that the necessary account of the future of Euskadi is a story in which there are indeed winners and there are losers; it is a story in which freedom wins, in which we gain what we have good, in which we gain our possibility of living together among different, in which one Euskadi who lives with different identities, in which one cannot exclude the other. That's the story he wins. And it is a story where there is one who is defeated, who is out of history, who are all those who wanted to impose their law on others through violence. That is the necessary story to build the future of Euskadi, which we want to do. And I am sorry and it pains me not to be able to participate in a common effort, and that it has not been intended that the presentation, the work and the effort that we have to make together be precisely that, which responds to a reality that has not yet been erased from Euskadi, because the consequences of terrorism in Euskadi have not yet disappeared and are there, and they still nest in the mentality of many people, some of whom sit in this House. It really hurts me that we did not want to see this, but I have to explain today in the rostrum why my parliamentary group, as in the previous parliamentary term, is not going to be present in that speech until some necessary steps are taken. First, a clear objective that our job is to delegitimize terrorism to pave the way for freedom. A second clear commitment: that the people who sit there working with us on that goal must have accepted minimum ethical conditions, must have accepted minimum ethical conditions, because otherwise it is doing another exercise, perhaps parking that uncomfortable debate in a parliamentary seat less striking or less conspicuous than this House. Or maybe, what, offer a runway... Who, for what? Why is it incorporated into what? Of course, it is very difficult to say that you are in a position to agree and share a country vision with someone who has such a critical moral reproach to do, because you are still unable to say that killing was wrong, that you never had justification, and that those who killed did so in the name of a project that was not legitimate. It is very difficult, but I believe that we were playing something that is more important and that is more important for all, and that is the framework in which our reflection on the victims is also felt, and in which the victims of terrorism and all terrorism are different. They are the same in pain and they are the same in suffering, but they have something different. There is a profound political significance in them. And the political significance of the victims of terrorism does not depend on what they thought, it does not depend on whether they were right-wing, whether they were left-wing, nationalist or not; it depends on who killed them and why they killed them. Because they were killed in the name of a political project that was intended to be imposed; therefore, they are all identified with a deep political burden and with a deep sense of freedom and speech. I would like the presentation that is being made today to have that objective of delegitimizing and that there are no more young people who want to pay tribute to terrorist killers when they finish their sentences and return to their homes, and that instead they feel ashamed and that we could then create an environment in which we would favour all those who were linked to terrorist activity, directly or through their support, can feel sincere regret, can truly collaborate in the clarification of the murders that Mr Pastor said have not yet been clarified, can really start a way back to the heart of democracy and the ethical ideas that we must share. But as long as we're providing facilities, or saving moral budgets, or not clearly identifying the goals, I don't think we're gonna make it. This is the position of the People's Parliamentary Group and this is the loneliness in which we find ourselves, which is not new to us. But this is the speech that ended with ETA and that made it stop killing, and it is the speech that has to vaccinate Basque society that in the future we can repeat what we have experienced. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u83	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. The Representative of the EH Group has the word. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u84	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. I want to make the first quotation here, Sara Majarenis, and his daughter the Star, because they have just suffered two violences at once: one is a machita of violence, the other a cruel violence produced by the policy of prison. We think Sara and the Stars must be at home in the Basque Country, in the Rue des Eusk, in order to refill from the suffering attack. This case shows us how much we still have to do with the entire peace, the final, the permanent for the establishment of this country, leaving the water aside, in order that the suffering should not be resumed, or not to repeat it again. I have mentioned peace, which is the most important value for us, and the conception which must appear in the first line of this ponciation. What in the legislation that has been passed, what was "approval," will be called in another name at this time, but we would like to restore it and keep it; "Excellency." Because we believe that peace must be a axis and an end in the conduct of this power. It is incomprehensible to us to leave the proclamation for peace in a corner, to seek to leave it on a second plane. I don't know what memory is and what we're gonna agree to it. For it is a subjective memory, because memory will be as one has lived in the past. Therefore, in the Plural Plural memory, we prefer to consider it in this variety. I don't know what it's like to agree with what it is and how it is to be done, it's hard to evaluate. For some people, it will be a normalized relationship, and for others it's a partnership that allows us to defend, to develop, and to complete all our projects. I don't know what terrorism and violence are about to be delegated because it will receive them from the point of view of violence or threat that one has suffered, because this experience will reduce it to this concept of experience. I fear that there will still be a much greater divergence with a term proposed in this case by the People's Party, which is that of freedom. The proponents of the term continue to deny freedom to persons who have the right to it, for their particular political interests. They continue to deny Euskal Herria a collective right, preventing him from freely deciding his future, because he prefers to impose his political project within this framework. We do not understand how the term freedom is interpreted by anyone who violates it, who continually denies it. But, beyond the term, I recognize that I welcomed with interest the amendment of the People's Party as it incorporated the text that had been proposed by Arantza Quiroga. However, we immediately verify and now again certify that it does not incorporate the attitude or talent that then wanted to bring Arantza Quiroga. We may not agree with these terms. But I think it would be easy to agree what peace is, because peace is an absolute value. If there's peace or there's no peace. It's easy to measure, test, or evaluate. They put the "Mitchell principles" in Ireland and they define it: "A commitment to not use violence for political reasons." If the drains of human rights are maintained, there is no peace. If the threat of violence on peoples or collectives is maintained, there is no peace. If anyone remains suffering from political motives in this country, there is no peace. We'll all agree that this moment we're living today is a new moment. This situation, which we now live in, is, however, difficult to call peace, a peaceful state. Some people said today, "It was this pasta," "gost like that." They were already overcome by violence, because the violence which others still suffer does not seem to matter to them. We should reject such negative attitudes (for there is no suffering") or insolidary attitudes ("I don't care for violence that doesn't affect me"). We may agree that the level of violence has been lowered in this country, fortunately the statistics indicate that. But we cannot forget: for this person who suffers by violence, he who suffers is absolute destruction. It cannot be explained what statistics say, or that it has diminished, or that the contrary conversion has increased, because it will suffer like an absolute one. Unfortunately, we are not on a peace scene. As long as human rights violations continue to occur, and as long as there are dangers that will lead to peace, as long as there are sabotaging attitudes against peace, as long as we cannot guarantee that acts of violence will not occur again, we will not be in a final peace scenario. We have work to do to settle peace in this country, no doubt. We have to face a scenario of disarmament of ETA, of withdrawal of State Security Bodies. The reparation of all victims must be stepped up, especially those who have been most marginalized in their rights of recognition and reparation. But, today, perhaps the most difficult element for us to establish a definitive peace is the situation arising from that cruel prison policy. The extreme situation of sick prisoners, who call on us to activate ourselves in terms of humanity; the hundreds of relatives who go on the road every weekend to exercise their right to family life, which is a real sword of permanent Damocles, a Russian roulette that always foresaw misfortune; the risk of more people being sent to prison for their political, social or professional performance in equally political judicial processes, is a continuous scourge. That is precisely where we have to invest. I agree with Mr Urkullu, with Mr Lehendakari, when he recently demanded in the Vatican the need to insist on efforts to achieve a just, lasting and definitive peace situation. It seems contradictory that that effort for peace that demands does not reflect in the name of this paper. Perhaps now the name of the Secretariat of Peace and Co-existence will also be changed to have a connection or similarity to the name that we are now giving to this parliamentary presentation. I think it is difficult to banish the concept of peace of this paper, because we are animals of custom, we have just called it that, and we will – I hope – continue to call it that way or call it that term of peace. With a greater intensity, we wanted the word peace to appear in this medium we've signed today. The words to which this power is directed are perhaps not ours; the text, it is true, has been introduced to us, and perhaps we do not receive them for the best. But we protected the middle zone. It's been a long time since we got mixed up with words in this joint. We've spent five years holding our own words from this athlete to strengthen or strengthen our own position, and we think it's time to break these inertias. Because we haven't moved in the meantime, because nothing happens, and we think it's time to start things happening in this town. We protect the formation of power with a clear idea: we want to pass through words to actions. Let us begin in harmony rather than in disagreement, and begin to work in harmony. We want things to happen in this legislation to establish memory, to make peace, and to build a communion. We want to start walking. Let us do what we must to do to observe the victims, to modify the policy of prison, to disarm, and to take steps in demilitation. Arriskatzeko ordered from the pentsatzen dugu. And today we make an appeal to the height of our eyes. Today, beyond a concrete formulation, beyond words, I understand that this Parliament is prepared to take steps. We will have to build spaces of communication, spaces of trust and, I hope, spaces of empathy, and EH Bildu will be in it. I'm done. We do not want to anchor or stick to a text, if what is really there is a willingness to move forward in the context. Let no one put obstacles, but or pretexts for us to move forward once and for all, at least not on the part of those who have shown the will to move forward. Society, the victims, who continue to suffer human rights violations today, not only demand it, but they will also thank us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u85	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Passing over to the answering shift, Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u86	Well, we're probably still at that point, Mr Arzuaga, but I want to keep the second part of your speech, and I've been very worried about the first one. I was very concerned about the first one, because in the first part you have devoted more to deepening differences than to seeking consensus. And I keep saying, peace is what we have today. No one is killed in this country for thinking differently, no one has to be escorted to look for their children at school, no one has to avoid certain areas of the country because they feel threatened. No one is killed anymore, because the cause of this absence of peace was ETA, and ETA has announced that it stopped killing, and he has the passage of the definitive dissolution. And let's not make comparisons that are not accurate. I also criticize violations of rights that may occur, but that is not comparable to taking a human being's life. To take his life not because he did or is thought to have done something, no, no! Just because he was a different-minded citizen, or because he was passing by, and ETA decided it was a strategic place to watch. I'm going to take the second part of your speech. I do not want to think that we should start this presentation and in a few months we should find ourselves in a situation similar to that in the previous parliamentary term, because I believe that there are enough members to be able to move forward. And we, who have just suffered from that direct violence and those murders of our comrades, neighbors and friends, have done the necessary reflection to be able to share with everyone, also with you, the necessary effort to build a memory. I'm not talking about it being a unique memory, I know that everyone has their own memory, logically; the worst thing that can happen to this country is that, with that interest in talking about multiple violence, multiple memories, we end up in memorylessness. That is the most important risk this society has. Because this society assumes that we have changed the stage, that we have changed the cycle. Many people don't even remember what ETA was, fortunately, or that it existed, no longer have concerns about violence in this country, think that we are already in the peace situation, and want to move on very quickly. The danger is that he wants to pass it without having read it in its entirety. And if we lose the memory of what has happened (everyone has his own story, it is true, but we have to keep cool, also in the head of our children, what has been the memory of the horror that has lived in this country) we will have the risk of falling back into a similar situation. Look, Mr Alonso, I am not going to say anything about your intervention. I'm just gonna tell you one thing. You have come to say in this rostrum almost the same as I have said. You have made it more dramatic, but I have talked about delegitimizing terrorism, I have told these gentlemen that it is not enough just to reject what was ETA, it is necessary to delegitimize violence politically if we want it not to be repeated again. And we have spoken of the victims of terrorism, and of other victims who are obviously not sufficiently recognized. With Mrs. Zabala in her association is Froilán Elespe's son, right? Share with you! He killed ETA, and still, today, he doesn't know who it was. She's in the same association as Mrs. Zabala, and she's in a very similar situation. There are many personal realities that must be cared for with all affection, because all deserve memory, justice and reparation. But I don't want to make comparisons between victims! Nor am I prepared to admit exclusions from one victim against another. That is the effort with which we are going to this presentation. And you have no doubt that if we don't see enough limbs we'll also let you know and we'll make it known, but of course we're going to leave our skins to get this thing going and going well. And that must be done with rigor and discretion, as when Idoia Mendia, sitting there, launched the decree of reparation for victims of other violence, which was the first step in that direction. As we have now done to implement the Victims Act, unfortunately with the threat of recourse by the Government of Spain, but which we have wanted to do with all the legal certainty of the world, because we believe it is fair to implement it. And once all those chapters have been closed, we can start talking about that new day, the new day of tomorrow. But we all have to leave some hair on the gurney. Not the dignity, but some hair in the catera, Mr Arzuaga, so that this is possible.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u87	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u88	Mrs. President, Mr. President, members of the legislature. Mr Alonso, all that you have told is true, all that you have told has happened, and so has happened, and all that pain that you have told has lived in this country, as well as the one that has transferred Mrs Zabala to us. All this has happened and we must not forget, but he has failed to say that we are no longer in that situation, fortunately. That, thanks to the combination of different political and police actions and the response of this country's citizens, we are not in that situation. And we must seek to move towards where we have to walk. Professor Reyes Mate, who is an expert in the field of coexistence and memory, has on numerous occasions also insisted in this Parliament that memory is necessary, is fundamental to building coexistence, but whenever it helps us to move forward. Memory as a lever of advancement, as a lever of change, as a lever of moving forward. If we use memory as something that paralyzes us, that keeps us continually looking to the past and holding ourselves in progress, we will not be correctly applying or applying policies that favor the construction of coexistence in this country, and we will eventually become salt statues. Because the principles, however much one tries to sow doubt, an injuring doubt, the principles are clear. They're clear to us. They are reflected in the resolution of the Peace Paper and coexistence of the ninth legislature, which we signed with you. We have said this over and over again, and we voted it twice in this Parliament in the tenth parliamentary term, and today in my first speech I reaffirmed it. So, let's not play that. The problem is that you change the order of the factors, and in this case the order of the factors does alter the product. Because you propose an agreement to be able to dialogue, when it is precisely the other way around, the dialogue to be able to agree. That is what we are putting forward in this paper: dialogue to agree. And don't wake up in advance so you can talk. Because, if that were the way you say, if a parliamentary group in this House were unable to speak, to dialogue on certain issues, to be part of the presentation of peace and coexistence (or of memory and coexistence in this case), if it does not face up to, if it does not accept minimum ethics, it should be for everything! Or what is the point of not having a dialogue with a parliamentary group if it does not accept a certain approach that we do or a minimum of ethics, as you have proposed, to talk about coexistence, and yes to talk in the self-government presentation about the legal framework that will articulate this coexistence? Or aren't they on the same plane? It doesn't make sense! Look, I could qualify that attitude, but I'm not going to. I will not do this because, frankly, what I said in my first speech I said because we believe it, because we want to move forward and because we want to rely on you to move forward. We want you to be in the paper, to dialogue and to transfer to the paper everything you think, with all the belligerence that you consider appropriate. And I also guarantee you one thing: we will be at your side to support that you can belligerently defend your ideas. We will be for that, as we have been defending their right to exercise politics for so many years. We want them to be, and we're going to defend their right, but we're not going to paralyze or allow the paper to be kidnapped, because we want to move forward. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u89	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Together represent the Podemos team. Your word is broad.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u90	The Rock Cano says in his book, the Twist novel, the things that are not thought and said over and over, the cosis que peensan y no se dice. I have for years, as I have told you before... I have been twenty-eight, of the thirty-three years that my brother is missing, twenty-eight years without talking. Twenty-eight years. Barne-gatazka bath bat... ikaragarria. And one of my main confusions was that I was a believer, I believed in God. With fifteen years my brother disappeared from day to day, and the truth is it's hard to think, and have doubts whether you'll ever be able to love again. At the age of fifteen, my main problem was whether I would ever be able to love again after all the suffering I had suffered. Fortunately, I am aware that I am able to love and, fortunately, I have been the mother of two wonderful children, and fortunately every time I put them in bed I repeat a phrase that always reminds me of my brother. And I always tell them the same thing: "Where the egg, nire bihotz oneko neska, June", eta "Where the egg, nire bihotz oneko Hisham". My son's name is Hisham Lucas, and he has a name that has meaning and meaning. "Hisham" in Arabic means generous. My brother Joxi was really generous, and his name reminds me a lot of him. And Lucas was my grandfather, who was pastor, pastor of Aralar, of that so rich cheese, which is made of latxa sheep. For that name has a very special meaning and that name is a name that denotes peace, that denotes love. My children, when they hear me talking on TV, they say to me, "Love, we don't like it when you talk about Uncle Joxi; you get serious, you get sad." True, the transmission of pain cannot normally be done with joy. All I want, at this moment of replication, is to remember a couple of sentences that I think are worthy of reflection, and that every pain takes away from us a broken piece of life, after every pain a sigh goes away, after every sigh a hope. With hope, the illusion moves away. I force myself to have hope and to continue to trust that laws and institutions can be created to prevent the repetition of the terrible past. I want to say in four years' time that Basque society has a deeper awareness of human rights, that our plural and diverse Euskadi lives in a democratic way with a self-critical memory of the past and, of course, always thinking about the future and improving, and protecting those people who are still today suffering unjust suffering, cruel and inhuman treatment. And here I would insist on this non-legislative proposal for the transfer of prison policy which we have tabled in this House and which has also been presented at the Congress of Deputies in Madrid. And I believe that a much more humanitarian prison policy would also make it possible to make progress in this presentation of memory, peace and coexistence. Finally, I would like to recall a very important phrase which also serves as a reflection. It is a phrase by Martin Luther King, and it is a phrase that I often repeat a lot when I go to schools: "I deeply believe that justice is indivisible, that injustice produced anywhere threatens justice in the world. In certain situations the cowardice asks: Is it safe? In others the convenience asks: is it political?, is it popular? But the conscience must be asked: Is it right? And there comes a time when one must position oneself in a place that is neither safe, nor political, nor popular..." I am convinced that we all recognize that there are things in our society, some things in our world that we should never adapt to. And with this phrase and this reflection I invite you all to be part of the presentation. Thank you. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u92	Thank you very much. I wanted to start by telling her something, and taking advantage that I am in the gallery, to Mrs Zabala, who also wanted to tell her, and she already knows it, but also in the emotion of the intervention she has done with so much heart, in such a personal way. And moving a personal experience to a debate in the House sometimes is fine: we are cold politicians, we look at things objectively, but it takes a little heart. Pili, your brother was a victim of terrorism. And not only that, but when he was killed by a lot of people he justified being killed. This is the terrible idea, the murdered whose death is justified, is believed to be necessary in the name of another cause, and that profound legitimacy which then acquires terror, which is for me what makes different – not in suffering or in the need for understanding, support, affection, but in a very deep political way – to the victims of the various terrorisms. And also the very existence of terrorism and, therefore, the phenomenon that we have to face. And, Pastor, indeed, of course, if I liked your intervention, if you have said the things we have shared! And Mr. Iturrate! Look, I... Oh, my God! If we have always been on the same side, defending the same ethical values! Then, do not see in our position any ethical reproach in that sense to your formations or to yourselves. But there are people who do not accept the minimum moral rules. And there has also been a frankly disturbing speech by Mr Arzuaga. The problem, Mr. Arzuaga, is that you're getting less and less scared, eh! I used to be so scared, now it's getting less and less scared. Sabotaging attitudes of peace, dangers to peace, having to... What do we have to do to ensure that peace is stable, lasting, and so on? What happens, that if we don't do that, peace isn't lasting? What do you mean by that to this House? With what language? Is that the language of the future? This has no backsliding, no peace has absolutely no price, nor do we have any outstanding bills, no outstanding accounts. We don't have any. And besides, as I tell you, it's getting less and less scary, because time is passing. I still suppose that in some areas it is very difficult, but less and less. Therefore, I, who want to look to the future, would like you, who are going to be in that paper in which we, as not changing things, are not going to be, and that, as well as continuing with the same menu that has been offered here... That is, here we are going to talk about the disarmament of conditioned ETA (which is already disarming it, by the way, the Civil Guard very well), conditioned to withdrawal..., how is it?, to demilitarization, withdrawal of the Security Forces and Bodies, to the conditions of their prisoners, etc., etc. Is this what you offer for that paper? I believe that we need a paper that does something different in the Basque Parliament, and I hope that Mr Pastor, who is going to be in that paper and who does not know how long it will last there, knows it too, and I ask him to represent another position that does not bend to turn the Basque Parliament into a place where that is discussed and conditions are put in place for ETA to do what it has to do, which is to hand over its weapons and dissolve, disappear and ask for forgiveness from the whole of Basque society. So this is what there is and this is our position, Mr. lehendakari. And our disposition, apart from that the configuration of the paper, its own objective, which here has not been explained, because here it is said that it is made way on the way but it is not said to what it wants to get... We want to get to a very concrete place. Well, as things stand, we are not going to be able to be there, but we are here, and we are going to continue to defend that speech, and we are going to continue to work because there is never a chance that terrorist violence will return to Euskadi, and because this is really a place where human rights are honored, everyone practices them, and we have that shared moral conviction. And in that effort, in this Parliament and in other forums, they know that they can count on the work and commitment of the People's Party, as they have always relied on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u93	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. And finally, EHG Team rep. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Pastor, you speak from the monopoly of suffering, the monopoly of past suffering, and the plaques that appear at the entrance of Parliament to me speak to me of plural suffering, of plurality of violence, and of plural responsibilities that also call upon you. That is why you speak from the point of view of the monopoly of suffering, but it is also that I do not know if you can assure me that that suffering that you claim to be of the past will not be repeated again in lustful facts that we might have now in the present or that we may have in the future. I don't know. You give me a speech that's contradictory, because it says "Society wants to move on too fast," and it says that peace is this. And it gives me the impression that what you want to do is stop in the past and invest very little in improving the present, a present that is not complete, a present that we still have to invest in. A list is collected in the text, such a compression: The elements or priorities we can carry to this power. Among them is the disclosure of terrorism and violence. This, I must remember, in the pre-eminent pomp, which was called the "moral fool," the formulad "a instrument for the desertion of terrorism." And we revealed our discrepancy to this formula. Rodolfo Artes at that moment said that the text did not change at all, that the text did not move. It touched me. With this new formula, which is brought here today, we propose that which is our Socholar, we agree today, we consider it a step forward. How do we interpret this? That, after all, he will interpret the violence that one has suffered, after all, how he ought to act for desertion. We have suffered the terrorism of the state and will place our vitalization in it. That's what we've been through and we're going to do it under warning about how we interpret our past. But it is true that, if we wanted to talk about violence today, or terrorism if I may, we would have to talk about the present, the present, the present, the present, the expression of violence that still exists today, the last, and it is the one that applies to prisoners and their families, the violence that involves the policy of dispersion, the only violence that is maintained today. I understand that the People's Party has problems talking about peace in this country, because it is precisely with the policies of the Spanish Government, with the policies of the PP, that they hinder, that they hinder, that they sabotage, that they take steps in favour of peace in this country. And that is precisely why a majority of this society is already beginning to interpret them as true enemies of peace. I understand that the PP wants to avoid the debate to stick to that thesis of winners and losers, which only seems to satisfy them themselves. That's why they prefer to stay out of the paper, that's why they prefer to have in their hand the ability to continue sabotaging it, to continue to boost it, to continue obstructing it from the outside. We're not going to accept vetoes, we're not going to accept impositions to talk. We're not going to go astray, we'll stay as we are. We shall continue with all determination to work for peace in all the forums, ponences, and commissions which exist for this purpose, even in this power which we now form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u95	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the Basque Socialists, together with Podemos, EHG, and the Middle Amendors who have signed the media. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters of the country, 66; the contrary, 9; white, 0; abscession, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u96	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. At this moment I interrupt the whole meeting until four o'clock. It was two o'clock in the afternoon and thirty-three. The meeting began again at four o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u97	Good afternoon, everyone. Let's start with the sixth point on the subject list: "Punish the other proposition of the law of the Parliament of the Union, concerning the placing of all the cares which concern the Simple and Work in one section. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. The wife of the Kortha, the representative of the EH Group, has the word to present and take part.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u98	Madame de Justice, my fellow congressmen, good evening. We have now come to this legislature to place the cares of the people and of the work in two different divisions, and to speak of the consequences of it. For us to-day the dispute is about a decision which may be of great consequence, and we shall, in our opinion, proceed upon a subject which the weakness of this government has revealed to us. In order to place the subject, let me tell you a few days' story. You know that the unions and patricians made a fundamental agreement a few days ago, and though this agreement is still to be added, they signed the agreement and immediately asked President Urkullu about this agreement, and then, after that, the chief physician with reference to this matter. And here is the first confusion: on the screen came Mrs. San José, but on the subtitles Mrs. Artola wide. The reasons that work with the logic required the subject worked in this situation with other logies. This confusion, based on a logic based on which you will know, has been the first, but there will probably be others from now on, because the limits are very vague. It happens that such confusions may also be among you. I dare say, that when we divide the matter, and in the direction of these matters there will be confusions, if they have not already come. The news has announced to us that it's a social priority. It aims to have more jobs and better quality using all the applicants and resources you've got in New York. If it's the basic axis of the political action of everything, then it's necessary to encourage harmony, including specific jobs policy, formization, social interaction, social conversation, and management of passive employment policies. Besides, all the capacities and resources necessary to carry on this whole will be indispensable to management in an efficient manner. It's just how it's going to get that laugh. We ask a great many questions about this, a great deal of light and doubt and uneasiness. These words I spoke to you are not the words of our party. These are words received by you in your own court of government, and by the President of the Urcullu at his first interview, and received in words. But, words and plans, these criteria, unfortunately, are not at all taken into account in the formation of the new fun. And he places the objects of employment in two different sections: Business and Social Security in the Department of Work and Justice, on the one hand, and employment policy and profession, on the other hand, passive employment policies, on the one hand, and active policies on the other. But how is it possible to establish the completeness of the subject in this order? It is curious, or at least remarkable, that in the episode made last week by the head of the Arzira Tapias, he had discussed the importance of consolidating the subjects and elements of his division in one, and of showing that it was necessary to give strong and integrated answers to the great challenges. But, apparently, what's worth in Tapia's department doesn't apply to this job challenge. This organization, in our opinion, will render management and co-ordination more difficult, and this matter, which, in its essence, appears as a priority, cannot arrive at the proper efficiency of it. For us, it shows a weakness in this government, for the answer to that great social goal which the New Christmas will be able to give to itself is compromised. And we are not the only ones who have revealed this situation. Even the unions, in one of those first meetings with Mrs. San José, have mentioned that this separation is not agreeable to them. In the press there have been opposition and incomprehensible attitudes around this division. And, moreover, the means must be doubled. We'd like to know how much this plan is for you, this distribution. But another question arises from my path: Have you agreed to the direction? Because today, by chance, when Artola generous was here, San José wasn't there, and when San José's gone, he's not wide. But are the agreements and shared looks guaranteed on these matters? We've got some doubts, really. Is there a share of his gaze, for instance, when he proclaims a separate pension system? About the scandal the EAJ made so often? Is the vision shared? Because, from the history of certain statements in the press, we'd say that's not the case. Shall we request transfer management or do we really want to handle transfers? I don't know, I'm not clear. Besides, in speaking of employment for quality, there are essential relations of labour, of inspection, and of industry, in a manner which we do not understand. It has been repeated several times that in the intention of creating a social employment, it is necessary to make a great progress in the proper scope for work purposes. Nay, that this sphere of commerce ought to be agreed with the majority, and not only with those who defend certain interests. And here's another thousand questions. I wonder if those majority will meet at that table of interviews. How will the leadership be executed in this sense which is required to create this peculiar sphere of work? Again, we see that the difference between words and actions is evident, that there will be an empty declaration of all that has been said about these matters. Is that so, Mr. Urkullu? We also hear that the epileptic and economic reactions are common to each other, and that they are inseparable. Without denying that this is so, the passive and active employment policy is equally inseparable. When we're talking about jobs, we need to talk about the conditions and the relationships of work. Impatient to act by form. It's also essential to talk about the protection system, about a system that will handle unemployment in an integral manner. It's necessary to talk about Social Security, to talk about pensions. We must, as it is everywhere, speak, because all are entirely connected with the conditions of life and the quality of life. In this sense we must take steps, we think: the wager should be on the side of a whole system, which will guarantee worthy conditions of life, and not otherwise. A great challenge, a capitalization, and a very strong answer and strategy, which is to govern unsuspected, harmonious, and well managed by the means, efficient and efficient. But your decision for us, at least, has neither leg nor head. You've been playing chromop games. This is a division made in your agreement to make a small place for the Socialist Party, all others incomprehensible. For all this, all the care, all care, and care that concern business, we now demand to be placed in a single department. And we expect the majority of this legislature to agree with this request. If the challenge of the production of jobs, the challenge of social employment, if it is compartmental, I think it is so, François, let us proceed with a sense and transparency, with the seriousness and energy required by the theme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections together represent the Podemos team. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. Good afternoon. From our group, as you have already seen, we have made a deal. We agreed with the initiative, because we do not share the decision to separate one of the most important public affairs in our opinion, such as employment policy, in two different departments, calling one part Employment and the other Labour; thus separating policies mainly related to job creation and search, on the one hand, and policies related to monitoring and monitoring compliance with labour law and defending the rights of women workers on the other. A good and effective employment policy requires, in our view, specific planning, which must start from a single place, a single department, and cannot do so without including fundamental matters for such planning, such as labour relations or the tasks it carries out, for example, Labour Inspection. Employment policy also requires, of its own importance, the full dedication of a department, so that department should not be burdened with other responsibilities, such as Justice. And in this respect it was the amendment that we had made. Employment policy should, in our view, be one of the most important issues for the Government, and the Government should therefore bet on addressing this policy as comprehensively as possible. We understand that this is not going to be possible, or at least it is going to have a much greater degree of difficulty with the current design in two different departments. Most people need to work to live, and our lives are heavily conditioned by the conditions and characteristics of our jobs. Employment is a central part of our lives, employment and its characteristics and conditions, and that is why it is the main concern of people. I don't tell you anything you don't know. This is demonstrated, in fact, by all the surveys and sociological studies that you are familiar with, and in which, in a continuous way, the main concern of citizens, among the many questions they are asked, is precisely employment, or, rather, lack thereof, unemployment. The various indicators agree that unemployment and the precariousness of working conditions are among the main concerns of the people who make up Basque society, and it is no less so, since most of us and we need it to live, and we need it without precarious conditions in order to be able to live with a minimum of dignity. And the reality today in Euskadi is that unemployment is around 140,000 people, a figure that in the hardest moments of the crisis came to exceed 169,000. It is also true that we are a community with a lower unemployment rate than others in the state, but it is also true that 93% of the contracts signed are temporary. And that despite the fact that the last labor reforms were supposed to end the duality between fixed and temporary jobs, or so at least they tried to sell it to us. The job created is also of very poor quality, precarious and short duration. Along with unemployment and temporaryity, we have a labour market where there are numerous abuses against women workers. Abuses that have to be combated from the employment policy in a comprehensive way, and not only from the Labour Inspectorate, because they have a lot to do with the business and working culture, and we cannot deal with it only from the point of view of control, which also happens in most cases a posteriori. Also in this area, as in others, we understand that prevention is fundamental, among other things because when we are late in working conditions, the ultimate consequence may be the death of working people. The day before yesterday, we were aware of the data on the increase in death in a work-related accident over the past year. The characteristics of employment, such as those mentioned above and others (temporality, precariousness, abuse, illegal overtime, etc.), are issues that are very directly related not only to the Labour Inspectorate, in the Department of Labour and Justice right now, but also to active employment policies, which are framed instead in the Department of Employment and Social Policy. The fight against unemployment and the fight against precariousness, i.e. because of the quality of working conditions, are two issues that for us, in addition to being fundamental political objectives, are closely related to each other, and therefore, in our view, the most appropriate thing is that the Government includes them in the same department in order to be more effective. Therefore, if we share – and I believe that this is the case and it has also been expressed in this House – that employment policy must be a fundamental issue for government action, we cannot in any way break it down into different departments. It seems to us a tremendous mistake, which can have direct negative consequences for the working social majority of the country. We are also very aware, in a matter like this, of the opinion of the trade unions, which have already expressed their rejection and support for this decision. In the opinion of the ELA union, for example, this separation is ineffective, and is only justified by the need to create more departments to give access in the Executive to a new partner of government. And in the opinion of the Workers' Commissions it is a decision that is not well understood, since employment-related policies have to be integrated, and because this decision could also leave the framework for social dialogue in a small area of government stuck together. An area of government which, in our opinion, has been left with little competence. This decision may also complicate the dialogue with the trade union centres, which will have to talk to two departments on issues for which it was previously sufficient to address a single department. This, of course, seems to us to be less efficient, and it will certainly increase bureaucracy in the development of employment policy management. We are not clear, in short, what are the arguments for employment-related policies to be separated into two departments, and we certainly do not see the advantages at all. On the contrary, we only see disadvantages in this decision, which caught us by surprise and on which, believe me, we have reflected, in case we found the advantages of the current situation of division in two departments of responsibilities related to employment policy. We haven't found them. We have no choice but to conclude that the only reason for this design has been to fit the puzzle of sharing government tasks between the two parties that support the Government. It seems to us good that you make the distribution that you think is appropriate in the tasks of government, but not at the cost of dividing and separating a matter as fundamental and as sensitive to the lives of women workers as that relating to employment. For us, employment policy must ensure that employment, both existing and generated, is a job of quality, with decent conditions, without risk to health, wages in conditions, etc. In order to better guarantee this quality, both in the new employment that is generated and in the existing one, it is necessary, in our opinion, to unify in the same department what has been separated in Employment and Labour. A good employment policy we believe that it is not only that which aims to lower the unemployment rate below an equitable percentage, whatever it may be, that it is that which also guarantees that the country's employment is a decent job and that it serves to enable people to maintain a living in conditions, and that it therefore considers monitoring and monitoring compliance with labour law as part of the employment policy, and not as something alien to it, and that it can therefore be located in another department with other matters, such as in this case Justice. Our political group will therefore vote in favour of this compromise, and we are also aware of the discussions we have had with those responsible for the different groups, which there is, or should be, a sufficient majority in this House that shares this opinion. I do not yet know whether this will be reflected in the sense of the vote. I would like to say yes, and that is why I ask with honesty that all those parliamentarians who think that these matters would be better in one department vote in favour, even though they know that the government can cause a problem. But I am sure that, even if the initiative went ahead, you would be able to remake the puzzle I mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u101	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Passing in the district of teams that don't run, representing the Basque Potion Group. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u102	Thank you very much, President. Mr Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to you all. We share, Mr Lehendakari, as it cannot be otherwise, the fundamental objective of this legislature, of which you have already spoken on other occasions, which is the creation of jobs, of decent, quality jobs, of stable employment for the tens of thousands, over one hundred thousand citizens of this Autonomous Community who want to work and who cannot achieve it. And we respect, as it cannot be in any other way, what powers the Government Act establishes and which remain in its hands, namely the creation and extinction of departments, or the modification or distribution of competences between one and the other departments. But we understand that it is precisely the task of this House to control the Government. And in this work of control of the government we allow us to advise you to reflect on this decision you have made, more thinking of a pact government between two parties... It's very complicated to make a coalition to rule in one direction, but what you have to do is think about the citizens. And citizens have as their main concern at this very moment the creation of jobs, and of quality jobs. And I think that making this decision is not for the citizens, and that is why it has given us a fundamental competence, such as employment policies, in two departments. He could have done it with others; he could have taken Mr. Darpón's department and done one Health and one Health, and it would have been members of different parties that led each of those departments, different advisors. Or that of Commerce and Tourism, then, do one of Shopping and another of Travel. But in employment, employment and employment policies, we find it very delicate that there are two different criteria than the two advisers on which these departments depend, in different directions. And this morning we had a very clear example of this: when Lanbide was discussed, when we talked here about the future of this fundamental instrument for job creation, the diagnoses were different. The spokesman for the PNV had one opinion, and the spokesman for the Socialist Party had another. In the criticism of Lanbide's current state, the diagnosis was different, and, therefore, it is usually the case that, before different diagnoses, different solutions are proposed. And that is what concerns us, and I believe that the previous speakers who have intervened in this matter are also concerned. And most of this House is concerned that we have different policies in different matters. I am not at all suspicious of your concern on this subject, but I am considerably concerned that in the future the decisions to be taken are not in the same direction, as we have seen, I say, in the example of this morning. And when it comes to allocating budgets so that we can have instruments to implement the policies that the counsellors consider, then, in the end, there will be one that has a budget and the other that does not. And this will create dysfunctions even among the top officials of the Basque Government themselves, in following instructions against different diagnoses, against complicated policies or solutions. I understand that you did not want to get rid of your party controlling all employment policies and job creation, because we have already seen what solutions are usually when the Socialist Party takes over this. And we've been through this and the indexes are on top of the table. There are things that have been corrected and things that seem to be better. We have the latest EPA results, which have been published this morning, and we see that growth is positive, but that it should be more positive, much better. You'd have to be more ambitious. And for this I think that precisely the decision you have made, to divide these powers (labour relations and social security on the one hand, and the rest of the policies and Lanbide on the other), so that division is not the right one. And that is why, while respecting what is their own competence, which is laid down in the Government Act, we in ours, in this control work, urge you to precisely modify that decree of structure, change it, and re-unite all the policies related to employment in a single department, in order to achieve the objectives that from the first day you put on the table, which are the creation of that stable and quality employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u103	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u104	Thank you very much, President. Today we discuss the initiative of the EH Bildu group in this plenary on the location of all responsibilities for Employment and Labour in a single department. My group, the Basque Socialists, does not agree with this approach, and we decided not to table an amendment because we felt that it was neither questionable. The issue is very clear, and is clearly regulated under section 8 of the Act of 30 June 1981, the Government Act. And, according to it, it is the lehendakari, as president of the government, who is responsible for directing and coordinating government actions, without prejudice to the competence and responsibilities of each of the councillors. But it also states in its subparagraphs (b) and (c) that among the functions of the lehendakari is to appoint and separate councillors, first of all, but it also clearly indicates as another of its functions that of issuing decrees which entail the creation or extinction of departments, provided that it does not entail an increase in public expenditure, as well as any modification in the denomination or the distribution of competences between them. This Parliament passed this Government Act and gave the lehendakari the power to decide on the distribution of the various departments. As a Member of Parliament, I do not want the Basque Government to tell Parliament, nor should it, questions such as what committees are to be set up, how many members are to be in each of these committees, what are the agendas of the day, because it is the exclusive competence of Parliament. And, by the decision of this Parliament, it is the exclusive competence of the lehendakari to organize his government as he sees fit to meet the objectives he has set. No one proposes a debate here to change this law; the only thing that is proposed is a debate for a minute of media glory, which remains in the nominal and forgets what the department's substantial: to look after the interests of the workers. And under that law, the Decree of 26 November 2016 on the creation, abolition and modification of the departments of the Administration of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country was adopted for this legislature. It is therefore so clear in our legislation that it makes no sense, in our opinion, to bring to this House today the initiative put forward by the EH Bildu group, nothing more than to have that moment of posture or opportunism, which is consumable but which, of course, absolutely we do not share. The parliamentary group Elkarrekin Podemos what has he done? For at first what he tabled is an amendment of addition, adding a second paragraph to what the EH Bildu group had proposed. In other words, he agreed with that approach, and he added another paragraph where he said: "This department will have no more subjects than those mentioned in employment and work", he began by saying, "so focusing all its political and technical activity on a fundamental issue such as employment". What does that mean? That they focus only on employment and work, that is to say, that they also take away social policies. That is what he came to say in his first approach, which is absolutely absurd, because if there is something that has to be united, as we have competences and actions, it is employment with social policies, because through Lanbide the whole field of social policies and employment policies, etc., are closely related. But then in the compromise amendment he took this away, because, of course, he had to realize in the middle that that was wrong, because he was separating Social Policies, and what he then put in the amendment is that he says "without including the area corresponding to Justice in all that union". I mean, not now, now what I'm saying is that now they're taking me away... No, Social Policies I realized I was saying take it off and no, now what I'm saying is take it off Justice. But, let's see, it's not about saying what's right with us! It is up to the lehendakari to define what had to go to each of the different departments. And it's also that they're perfectly distinguishable departments. The Department of Labour and Justice has a very clear role to play in the implementation of labour legislation, labour relations, the processing of sanctioning procedures, safety and health at work through Osalan, labour inspection, the social economy, corporate social responsibility, the care of relations with the judiciary, the provision of means of operation for the administration of justice, the organization and operation of prison facilities, the implementation of powers in the field of juvenile offenders, and the appointment of notaries and property registers. In addition, the Department of Labour will be responsible for promoting social dialogue, attending to collective bargaining, both of which are fundamental pillars in labour relations, and in which we believe, in order to agree policies that improve quality in employment and working conditions. It will also contribute to the fight against labour fraud. Work such as work inspection and occupational safety and health and prevention will be carried out in this way also with greater precision. And the Department of Employment and Social Policy also has other functions and areas, such as employment policy, social services, comprehensive care for people in situations of greater vulnerability, reconciliation of work and family life, and the ability to include more difficult groups in employment, with the Lanbide reform, as we were able to discuss at the fourth point, and the income guarantee income, which we have already discussed in another plenary. The division between the two departments of competencies that were previously confined to a single department, therefore, does not pose any problem. And, if there is any problem, that is why there is the role of referee of the lehendakari and coordination between departments, which has been the normal and usual thing that happens in any government, not only in the government of this Autonomous Community. In any kind of government at the state level or from other autonomous communities. It's just that that's very clear. And then, in the government agreement between the PNV and the PSE, employment is listed as the first pillar, as the basic axis of the political action of the whole government, which could not be otherwise, because the generation of quality employment is a matter for the whole government. And the determination, at the beginning of each legislature, of the distribution of the different departments and their powers is the sole competence of the President of the Government in this Autonomous Community, as is also the case at national level. That is why my parliamentary group, logically, the Basque Socialist Group, will vote against the amendment tabled by the EH Bildu Group and of course the compromise that they have finally signed with the Elkarrekin Podemos Group. And I hope that the People's Party, which at first made an amendment that had little to do with the content of today's initiative, and which withdrew yesterday, because it didn't see much sense either... It now seems that their vote could be reconsidered, which they were initially going to abstain, because they put the phrase they had put in their amendment, which has nothing to do with what is being raised here today. But as you have put your sentence, you now say, "Well, as you have put my sentence, we are going to vote in favour of the amendment." Which does not seem normal to me, because I can understand that this can be proposed by the EH Bildu group, or a new group like the Elkarrekin group We can, but a group that has already had government responsibilities, that knows how they are distributed, and every year they can put the Ministry of Employment, Social Policies, Equality..., I remove Equality, I put something else into it, and they are used to it, I do not understand that today they come here and tell me "No, as they have put my sentence, that nothing had to do with what was also proposed here, so I will vote for the best in favour of the initiative". Because it has absolutely nothing to do with it. And what is at stake here is the application of existing legislation. This Parliament has adopted a regulation, and there is no discussion here about amending that law, there is discussion about the application of the regulation, and that is what has been done. So here is what is going to be discussed today, if there is no need to discuss absolutely anything here today, because it is not for Parliament to get involved in this matter! And, therefore, what has to be done in democracy is of course to be in favour of compliance with the rules in force. What I do not understand is that we are voting here in favour of not complying with the rules in force, because I cannot understand that. And, of course, I remember that ignorance of the laws does not excuse its fulfillment. And here is a pure and clear rule that says what it says, and there is absolutely nothing more to discuss. Nothing more, and thank you very much. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u105	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Akiancia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u106	Thank you, ma'am. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good evening to all. We are discussing, as in the case of Madame Kortah, the other proposal, as well as that of Empeduyx, and all the cares that concern the work. A funny touch, a funny proposition. A few hours ago we discussed the profession, but the real essence of the discussion was anxiety, priority, and challenge. Demonstrate: More work and better. Shared concerns, priority and challenge. Employment, a concern, a priority and a shared challenge. We again devote a point in this plenary to employment, whether indirectly or, as it were, somewhat out of focus. Out of focus, I'd say, Mrs. Kortajarena. An initiative of yours, an amendment by Mr Hernández and an amendment by the People's Party, and now a compromise agreement with three points that reflect these three contributions. Mr Hernández told us that he does not know exactly what support this issue is going to have. Man, some of us don't have much intuition either, but we seem to know more than you do, apparently. Mrs Kortajarena, I am going to follow the writing of this text a little bit. Mrs Kortajarena, I am not going to deny, it would be a lack of truth, that when I first read this initiative of yours I had the temptation to stick to three specific points in my speech. One: the internal distribution of areas and functions of the Basque Government is a prerogative of the lehendakari. Two: the law that establishes it, the Government Act, is a basic rule of operation, which has been a fundamental part of our rules of play since 1981. Three: if you want to raise questions about this, make a change to this rule. I've got seven minutes and nineteen seconds left. Well, there's another de facto option: that you win an election and get to invest a lehendakari or a lehendakari. Faced with this first temptation, I was gaining weight in the intention to argue in front of his initiative. I certainly do not know whether this initiative, or the deep respect I have for the functions of this Parliament, is being respected in itself. This has also been said about functions; it has been said about Mr Arbulo. The functions of impulse and control to government action seem to me essential in the field of our coexistence. You, in the right to exercise this function of impetus to government action, bring us this initiative. In fairness, I, on behalf of my group, oppose arguments and debate with you. You give us a justification and you say (I quote): "The new government has announced that employment is its main social priority (...) The goal of the Go-bier-is not to have more and better quality employment (...) The new Go-bier-is not committed to reforming and modernising Lanbide". Government, Government, Government... "But this," you say, "unfortunately has not been taken into account in the formation of the new government. There are two different departments." He makes a prediction, pulls out the crystal ball and says, "That will make management and coordination difficult." And today he has set an example, you see that there are many, and he says, as proof of this uncoordination, that a medium is bound, surely the one who put the names. Is this a government decoordination? Its solution, which is the operative part of its proposal: that it be located immediately in a single department. Mrs Kortajarena, I think here the really unfortunate is your argumental leap into the void. I'd ask myself, what is a government? What is a government? A government is a structure. In our case, a government with different departments that work synchronized, coordinated; departments with different vice-advisors that work synchronized, coordinated, and so on the next level. A government is a machine, it is a machine formed essentially by people and other resources (Mr Arbulo has also talked about budgets). A machine that can be adapted to the purposes, to the objectives it pursues. And, like any machine, the important thing is to act synchronously in the pursuit of these ends. And what is one of the priority objectives of this government? The job! This Government has adapted its structure to more effectively pursue that objective. Its solution: unique, unique department. By projecting your argument, as I see you see that difficulty, why not a single vice-counsel?, why not a single better direction, right? Which would take us to a one-piece machine. Mr Hernández, you were amending, amending, and today you are signing a compromise text, in which, in addition to this, you were talking about no more matters than employment and work. Mrs. Kortajarena also said, "I'm not sure what's inside..." Have you read the area decree? It's perfectly clear! That coordination is perfectly clear! It is perfectly clear how these areas work, what functions there are! Mrs. Kortajarena, you're asking for a one-piece machine. I don't know if it'll be very effective and efficient. Mr Hernandez, you ask us to raise a wall around that machine, to isolate it even more from other issues. Yeah, that's what he's asking us. Mr. Ruiz de Arbulo, I don't know what you're up to. Target, job. The transversal. There are some cutting-edge departments: Employment, Labour and Economic Development. They are state-of-the-art departments, but the cross-cutting is in all departments. Others will also pursue the job! They will not be designed (such as sports equipment, which operates with more attack functions, others with more defence functions)..., they will not be specifically designed for the field of employment, but, for example, while not at the forefront, the Department of Health works with the field of public employment! The Department of Health, for example, works in the field of employment, in the development of R & D & i in health. An Innovation Directorate was created for this issue. How many companies have been set up in this R & D & i environment? Which side of the wall would you put this on, Mr. Hernández? The transversal. If you know a lot about this! The transversal. Mr. Arbulo, you share the goal of employment, respect the powers of the Government Act... Well, you, in this turn, have almost broken your hip! Think of the citizens... Here we all think about the citizens. And it gives us a little detail about budgets. Man, we've been expecting a little more from you on this one. You also asked the Lehendakari, in his speech, to reflect. What reflection I asked of you. I ask you to reflect, and to reflect on a matter – and I quote you – "about the powers established by the Government Act". Returning to the Government Act (art. 8), the lehendakari directs and coordinates the actions of the Government; (a) defines the Government's programme; (b) appoints councillors; and (c) creates or extinguishes departments. That is, the Government Act tells us about what, who or who, how. The lehendakari designs the machine and keeps it synchronized, coordinated. Lehendakari, Mr Arbulo, Mrs Kortajarena, Mr Hernández, is ambitious in terms of employment. The lehendakari has designed a machine whose compass is the north of the job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u107	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Passing by the turn of the answers, represent the EH Group. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u108	Thank you. Mrs Gloria Sánchez, Mr Aiartza, I am clear who has won the elections and who organises the subject of all these things, but I am also clear that we too have an impulse function and that we can make proposals, and that the non-law propositions are constantly nothing more than things that are suggested and brought to debate in this House. Then, from there, with all calmness we maintain our proposition. The truth is that Mrs Sánchez has shown us a talent and a desire to work together splendidly, because she tells us that things here are decided by the lehendakari and point, and that's it. And besides, we want a minute of glory. But, well, beyond that, we have read the functions assigned to each of the departments, and Mr. Aiartza also suggested that we read those functions. Well, if you go on the Irekia page, for example, the function of implementing labour relations legislation appears in both departments. It appears in both departments, with which I don't know how we're going to organize it. And you say I'm a futurologist or predicting situations that can or cannot be given. You too, hey! And Mrs. Gloria Sánchez the same. Because to understand that coordination and collaboration is so, by itself, that is also a wish. It's a wish, yes, it's a wish. Because we have all been, some in government conjunctions and others in other places, and we know that coordination is one of the greatest difficulties that any organization usually has, and governments alike. And more so when in that coordination two agents come in who have very different positions. For example, in the area of pensions and the pension system itself, Mrs Artolazabal in her appearance explained to us that she would defend her own pension system, and Mrs San José said that that was unworkable. He said it like that! Yeah, it's picked up in the press, then you can see it! So, of course, I don't know... I want to say that here positions which are common in themselves, in two political groups which are very different and which have different objectives too, are likely to be given. Because, as you have rightly said, I do not know whether Mrs Sánchez or yourself, behind all this there are people, and, for example, Mrs San José attributed to her political-ideological position, among other things, the issue of not considering that a pension system of her own was achievable. So, well, here's a little bit for everyone. And that these are absurd propositions... Well, well, I think we should take a little care of using that kind of terminology, Mrs. Sánchez. Being clear that it is the Government that leads, we are invited to reflect. Because if other issues are very important and indissoluble; if there are advisers like Mrs Arantxa Tapia, who suggests that her department should be trinkoa and soya, who needs to have all the subjects that are around the issues that she handles, then I understand that an objective of such magnitude, such as job creation and the creation of quality jobs, being raining the one that is raining right now, for the truth, that is as if to be playing in a card game, I do not see it. In this regard, we hope that the People's Party will remain in its position in favour of this proposal which we have negotiated with Elkarrekin Podemos, and that we will be able to move forward in this direction and that the Government will be able to reflect on the extent to which these consequences of this division are acceptable or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Together represent the Podemos team. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u110	Thank you. Well, in the end almost the main argument on the part of the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party has been almost that..., well, little or no: it has been coming to remind us what the lehendakari's powers are when designing the government. I believe that none of the groups we have raised today have discussed these competences. None of the interventions have gone in that direction. We have said that we believe that this decision is a mistake that will have consequences, or that we believe that it will have negative consequences. Because it's true, we don't have a glass ball, nobody has it, but in this House we're all going to say, at some point, in different debates, what we think is going to happen to the future, when we stand up for one or other opinion. We don't have a glass ball either, but we think this decision is a mistake and it's going to have negative consequences. It is true that we had tabled an amendment aimed at concentrating in a single department on everything that has been called Employment and Labour. It is not that we would not have realized the issue of social policies. That debate exists, and we have that debate. Some of the things that are called social policies today are related to employment, and others are not. But it is true that then, when it was negotiated, we in that sense retreated (I have no problem in recognizing that), because the objective was to carry out an initiative with which we agreed because, as I said, from the beginning it seemed to us a mistake to separate these subjects into two departments. It has upset me quite, although it has not addressed us expressly, but Mrs Kortajarena, about the minute of glory, because this issue for me is a very sensitive topic and in which people play the most vital to their lives, and I think that no one should... I, of course, am not here, let alone in this matter, to seek minutes of glory. The minute of glory I'm probably missing it today at my house with my daughters for being here all day. It has also been said that it is not a question of saying here what we think it has to be. Man, if Parliament is not about saying what it seems to the parliamentary groups that it has to be, where are we going to say it? On the street too, of course, but if we can't give our political opinion here, then, we turn off the lights, we vote every four years, we directly choose a government that does what it thinks, and that's it. And also an ending in which they said, "There's nothing more to discuss." Well, we discussed it. We do not intend to raise any walls, we propose what we have said, to have such policies in one department. We then do not propose to raise any walls around it to isolate them from the rest. Indeed, employment is an issue that also needs to be cross-cutting to the rest of the departments. What we have said, in my speech, or at least what I have tried to say..., I think I have spoken of a planned employment policy that comes out of one place. That's what I said. I do not propose to raise any wall, because if that argument is valid for me, then we would be saying that in all the departments that we decide, or in this case that decides the lehendakari, we are proposing to raise walls, around those departments. No, we do not propose to lift any walls, although I recognize that the expression has been very nice to you and in our group it has caused some enthusiasm. As I was saying, I think the main argument you made is that it is the lehendakari's responsibility to design the government. We have not discussed that competition at any time. What we are saying, and I repeat it and I am asking for the support, as I have done before, of parliamentarians, what we are saying with this amendment is that employment-related policies, which is a fundamental issue, are going to develop much better for people, because it is going to be a much more comprehensive policy, leaving a single department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u111	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u112	Thank you, Madam President. And thank you, Mrs. Sanchez. You have convinced me with legal arguments, but it seems to be contrary to what you were trying to do. He convinced me to vote in favour of the initiative. You have defined the rule of government, the Law of Government, 7/81, as a pure and clear rule. I just don't share it. It's not that I think the law is unclean; it's that I don't know what to study in a law or what to observe or what to find out from a law to know if it's pure or unclean. But clearly it is, and a lot. And that article 8 says, indeed, in subparagraph (c), that the lehendakari has the power to make a decree with the structure of the Government. But it doesn't say that a single decree. And on the basis of that article he made the decree of 26 November 2016, with which he created the structure and powers of the current government. But, as not just a decree says, we do what we do from here is to ask you, to urge you (I am not going to say beg you, it seems a bit excessive to me), to exhort you if you let me – yes – or to suggest you make a change, and to adapt that machine that has been said by the spokesman for the Basque Nationalist Party that is the government, that will fulfill a series of objectives, that will adapt it to reality. All the machines are adjusted, and nothing happens by making a new government decree and that certain competences, according to the article cited by Mrs Sánchez, pass them to the department where we consider that we should be, which is together with those of Employment. It's very simple. The law, indeed, as you say, Mrs Sánchez, is very clear. We only ask the lehendakari, within the exercise of his powers, to amend the decree of the Government and transfer those powers that are now in the Department of Labour and Justice... , to remain as Justice, and to transfer them to Employment, Social Policy and Youth. That simple change we ask of you. And I believe, Mrs Sánchez, that this is a matter or is the subject of debate within this House, which you have called "sterile debates". I don't think they're sterile. Everything will depend on Mr. Lehendakari! If Mr Lehendakari listens to us, it will not be a sterile debate. But, in any case, hearing the opinions of all groups is never sterile. It's always positive. And more in matters and matters that are within the competence of this House. Because you say that, since that is an exclusive competence of the lehendakari, the others have no right to comment. I'm curious to hear you say that. If we look today at the agenda of the plenary, the last item, the eighth item, talked about the Garoña nuclear power plant, talked about the powers of the Nuclear Security Council... which, of course, are not the competence of this House. How many times in this House, in my short experience as a parliamentarian, have we debated, discussed and faced positions on matters that are not in any way within the competence of this House or of the Government to which we support or control. That's the usual thing. To investigate this debate is to go against the interests of the citizens. And those interests are what we have to worry about. And again I insist, to close my argument: the government has to be not a government aimed at the parties that make up it, but a government aimed at the interests of the citizens. And in order to avoid problems on such sensitive, sensitive issues that we are so concerned about, as has become clear this afternoon, all we ask of you is to modify, within the exercise of your powers, that decree on the structure of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u113	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u114	Well, Mrs Kortajarena has pointed out that she wanted to suggest some opinions, and obviously the opinions can be discussed, but there are cases where there is no more than being an opinion here, as is the case here. We may be of the opinion, or the different political groups may be of the opinion in one way or another, but, of course, the rule of the Government Act is clear: it is the lehendakari, regardless of the opinions of the different political groups, who ultimately has to decide what he considers to be the best distribution between the different departments. And that's what you've done, obviously. And in your compromise amendment you are not suggesting: you are trying to impose on the government an opinion from other parliamentary groups in this House. Because they say: "The Basque Parliament urges the government to immediately place in one department all the responsibilities corresponding to employment and work", but to remove justice. I mean, that's not a suggestion! That is that I have a different opinion and I want to impose my opinion on the lehendakari. And that cannot be the case, because there is a law that says very clearly that it is not for this Parliament. And in this Parliament we adopt that law, and as long as that law is not amended, which is not the case in this initiative, it is obviously the lehendakari who has to decide how he thinks he has to distribute the departments in order to achieve precisely what he wants to achieve, which is to improve employment and the quality of employment. Because, as I indicated to you in my first speech, it is very clear in the government agreement signed by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party that this is the responsibility of all the government departments, because everyone can have an interrelationship, in their respective matters, with employment, and that will not prevent everyone from having to do what they have to do with the powers and powers assigned. And to the Elkarrekin Podemos group, to Mr Hernández I have to say that obviously, well, you are in the same line as the approach presented in this plenary by the EH Bildu group. They have made the turn there, as I have indicated: first they said that they take away social policy, now they do not refer to that, they leave it as in a debate that you are considering, but now it says "Now what I want to take away is justice". But this is not about saying what we think, in order to try to impose it on the government. It is because this is something that belongs to the President of the Government, which in our Autonomous Community is the lehendakari, as exactly the President of the Government does at the level of Spain when he decides which departments he is going to carry out and how he changes the different powers and powers between the different departments. Because there is no legislature in which ministries are exactly the same as others. We're used to seeing how they change, and how they change areas, and they can get together in one department or another. And, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, I still do not understand that you are going to support this initiative today. You were very clear, because we spoke, that it was the lehendakari's clear competence to distribute between departments, and yet, at the end, although you fully agree with that, I see that your initiative, which had nothing to do with the subject in question, withdrew it yesterday, but at the end, as against your will, to force you to vote in favour of the initiative of EH Bildu and Podemos, because, at the end, as you have put your vest that has nothing to do with today's initiative, because it says to me, "No, it is that we feel obliged to have to vote in favour". Man, I repeat again, you are a party that is used to governing, that rules in the Government of Spain, that you are used to doing that among ministries continuously. And you don't tell me that a party that has government responsibilities can think that it's going to vote simply because they've put in that little phrase that has nothing to do with it, and it's bound to do that. I believe that, regardless of whether or not you have inserted that phrase, or what you proposed at the beginning, which has nothing to do with it, you are free to decide and vote as you see fit. And I still invite you to think about it and at least abstain, even if you do not vote against it, so that an initiative that does not have to be discussed (i.e. we can discuss it, but it is not up to Parliament to decide how the departments are going to be distributed at the end) can be adopted here, because it has no meaning and it does not have any logic either, because the article is very clear in that sense. So I invite you to think about it again, that you are still in time. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u115	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Akiancia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u116	Eskerrik asko berriro. Very briefly. Mrs Kortajarena, as far as I know, I have respected your impulse function at all times. I respected her. And the absurd... come on, I've seen my notes, and I've talked about "unfocused initiative." Coordination, you tell us; coordination is a desire... It could be a wish. In government action, coordination is a reality, and one must try to ascertain it: either there is coordination, or there is no coordination. And this is an issue that today, as far as we know, neither you nor any of the other signatories or potential supporters of that initiative here have brought or tested. He tells us, "What I have put to you is a reflection!". Well, I don't know, read what you've been up to. What you tell the government, you tell the lehendakari, is that it should be located immediately. Man, "immediately place" doesn't sound like reflection to me! Mr Hernández, you say that the main argument we have used – and I speak for myself – is that of the law, the legal argument, the argument of the competences. Well, if we have to quantify it somehow, I've devoted three minutes to that issue; the remaining eight minutes I've been talking to you about a greased machine that is this government. I mean, at least based on that quantification, it's not my main argument. That's not my main argument. By design, it's not my main argument either. And he speaks to me from the transversal, and I have spoken to him also from the transversal. From the cross-cutting to the objective, to one of the priority objectives of this Government: employment. The use of all resources towards this goal (transversality). Mr. Arbulo, I've seen you reflect quickly. You have reflected between one intervention and the other, and you are already clear on the meaning of the vote. Think very quickly. He says the lehendakari listens to him. I'm sure the lehendakari is listening to you, I'm sure the lehendakari is listening to you. And it suggests that you adjust a machine. He suggests it, and he tells us this because all machines need an adjustment. And I ask you, when are the machines adjusted, Mr. Arbulo? When do they adjust? When they don't work, when they don't work with synchrony. That's where the machines are adjusted. You haven't shown any of that, you haven't shown any of this! Quite the opposite. It is a cross-cutting approach that has that objective, and this machine works and will continue to work. No more. A government that has been designed to pursue priority objectives, including, as a top priority, employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u117	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. The debate is over and the vote is taken by EH Collect and the middle-direction that Podemos has signed together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 38; the opponents, 37; the whites, 0; abstentions, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u118	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. The seventh point on the theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary team together, in order to face the hardships of the SOS De Calls concerning the management of service-112. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Together represent the Podemos team. Mr. Becerra has the word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening to all. According to health statistics, at least two people we sit in this room today are at risk of having a heart attack at some point in our lives. Needless to say, from the Elkarrekin group we may not want that to happen, but, if so, I invite you to put yourselves on the role of the affected person. From the moment you suffer the heart attack you will have two hours to be transferred to the nearest hospital or, failing that, to receive the emergency health care you need. From this two-hour period, their chances of surviving without permanent sequelae are progressively reduced, as a result of lack of blood irrigation in vital organs such as the brain. In a situation of vital distress like this, immediately you, or those who accompany you in that trance, will look for a phone and call 112. And without a doubt, the last thing you will want is for the phone to communicate, or for the person on the other side of the headphone to react inappropriately. You expect and should receive a professional, resolutive and above all immediate response. It's an emergency, it's a matter of life and death, and that's priceless. It's priceless, isn't it? You want me to tell you what that price is? I will tell you: the average annual salary of an emergency telephone service provider 112 is currently 15,000 euros gross per year. Yes, you've heard well: 15,000 euros. Plus by old age, they don't have anymore. The last contract awarded by our Government in 2011, by the socialists, forgot to include the staff subrogation clause. I'm sorry I forgot! Because of this, some women workers have lost their accumulated antiquity during almost twenty years of effort and sacrifice. Between one thing and another, this assumes that the base salary of the staff is now around the thousand euros net monthly, as long as they do not receive the medical leave, because in that case it will be even lower. And we can still remove some other concept. For example, after the 2011 award, women workers also lost the plus by transport they had obtained, when the service was centered in Txurdinaga, after it was distributed over the three capitals for years. Please note that some women workers can spend almost two hundred euros a month moving to Bilbao. And keep adding, or subtracting better said. But the problems of 112 don't end in wages. In 2010, the service served it between ten and fourteen people distributed in the three capitals, as I said. Now he's covered between five and nine female workers. Almost half. With these resources, the service must attend every year, according to the website of the Department of Health (whose responsibility has, by the way, been absent today), around 1,400,000 calls, and coordinate responses to about 200,000 annual incidents, such as rescues, fires or traffic accidents. Starting from the truthfulness of these data, which we do not doubt, this means that the service receives an average of 1,200 calls in a single working shift, and that each operator must answer one call every six minutes, and that it must give an appropriate answer before receiving the next one. That does not take into account the possible peaks of work that could be caused by adverse weather, on the nights of a weekend, or by any other unforeseen event. Put yourselves in your place, and get an idea of the stress and responsibility that this entails. By the way, if we are talking about night service, we should point out here that the night extra in 112 is now paid at EUR 1.59 per hour. Do you realize how much a person's life in trouble is quoted in this country on the night of any weekend? One and a half euros an hour, the price of a decaf. It is not my intention to make yellow with this issue, but I also do not want you to take it as another labour dispute. If the employment situation of this staff is already serious, from Elkarrekin We can consider that even more so is the response we are giving from the Government to the issue of emergencies. Thus, it is difficult to understand that the telemarketing agreement is now being applied to people on telephone 112. The task that these professionals must undertake requires knowing what happens, where it happens, who calls, and deciding, within the shortest possible time, whether or not that call is an emergency, and what emergency services are to be mobilized to give the right response. Which of you and all of you would dare to make those decisions at that time, and what salary would you ask for to assume that responsibility? Why, if we are talking about professionals who receive specific training at the Arkaute Academy, then they get a real salary that barely exceeds the minimum wage? And here I am going to say something that came to my mind from the very first moment I learned of this situation: the 112 service is made up of some 50 people, 90% of whom are women. And it is no coincidence that their working conditions are so unfortunate, because women and labour discrimination continue to go hand in hand in this society, for many goodist speeches that we continue to listen to in our institutions every 8 March. Because when these workers, tired of suffering this unjust and bloody situation, decided last June to make their voice heard, their demands were ignored by our Government, whose head of security is not here today either. And I wonder: is this the dialogian talent that is going to rule (excuse me, I was doing it there, I apologize)... Is this the dialogue, in any case, which will govern the next four years? And it is clear that there is no room here for the obvious recourse of the trade union strategy of confrontation, after which the government is often shielded. What we have are fifty women workers who have decided to partner and fight for their future on their own, because until recently they did not even have the company committee that should guarantee them the law. By the way, the law had forgotten the law, that Constitution which guarantees the exercise of the right to strike. Well, when these workers have decided to protest on the street and organize partial stoppages, they have been punished with a minimum of 100 per cent by the Department of Labour of our Government. And I ask you, here and now: since when do minimum services of 100 percent apply to people subject to a telemarketing contract? What are we left with? Do they do trivial work, or are they essential to the country? And if they are essential, why do they work for a private company and are not part of the Administration, such as other essential services (read firefighters, police or emergency health personnel)? At this point I would like to make it clear that for Elkarrekin Podemos it is important that the emergency call service 112 be what it should never have ceased to be, a public service attended by people with decent working conditions, equivalent to those of the government's workforce, who are recognized as their professional specificity through the necessary accreditations for this. And that is why we are asking here and now to study at least the economic viability of its publication. And in case I advance to the possible reticences to clarify that the rescue of such service would not be at all burdensome for the public arks. On the contrary, the last award in 2011 was made for a total amount of EUR 4,600,000 for three years, and the cost of having fifty people hired with the salary profile of the telephone staff of the Basque General Administration during that three-year period would not exceed EUR 4 million. Look, at the first meeting we had from Elkarrekin with the 112 workers, I remember asking them what working conditions they aspired to achieve. The answer still causes me disquiet, so it supposes of overwhelming logic: to recover the lost antiquity, to raise the base salary from 15,000 to 18,000 euros, to increase from 1.5 to 2.7 euros the hour worked in the night shift, to receive a supplement of five euros when at the end of the shift there is no public transport, to rest a day and a half continuously, and to make it possible to match that rest with two weekends a month in order to share that time with their families. Nothing unusual, from my point of view. And I certainly understand that the same thing they would wish for themselves any of the ones present here. That is why I do not understand that we can leave this plenary room today without giving an adequate response to the demands of this group; that we can leave as if the 112 emergency service were another telephone service; that we can leave here without properly appreciating the daily effort made by these women so that Basque citizens continue to be sure that telephone 112 will give, yes or yes, a professional and adequate answer day and night, even at the cost of leaving their skin for a few thousand euros a month. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Basque citizenship is tenacious and hardworking, and it knows how to recognize the passion and dedication of its people to build a fairer and safer society. And for that very reason, without wishing to obviate our political differences, from Elkarrekin We can ask you that when you go to vote this non-law proposal you take that unique opportunity to thank in turn the efforts of these workers and thus correspond to their daily generosity, with an affirmative vote that honors you and puts you up to the example that they are giving us on a daily basis. Thank you very much. Mila esker.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u120	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Passing over to the leaders' team, representing the EH Collect Group. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u121	Parties, members of the legislature, members of the government, and especially workers for the 12-SOS calls, good afternoon. I know it's late, and I know there's a lot of things I'm going to say that Mr. Becerra has already said, but it seems so serious to me that it's worth listening to at least a couple of things. We can imagine a kind of chain until the solution of this situation occurs. A string, where each service participates, works like a network eye or a star. The weakness of a single slave leaves the whole chain useless. Let's say a car accident where people can't get out of the car and be hurt. It's the first thing that happens that somebody or somebody call it $112. These will get the first amazing information: what has happened, where has happened, and what has happened. By response, independence opens and other services will be started. Then the edgeini, the firemen, the ambulances, etc., will do their job. But each second is important, and at such moments as are important for survival, every eye in that chain of those who have been in this accident is indispensable to work in a well- coordinated and coordination. Those who work in emergencies have worked on it for 15 years if only one chain eye doesn't work properly, the emergency won't work properly. And this chain begins at the 1212-SOS Calls. More than a million calls per year, almost three thousand days, almost 200,000 independentties opened in the year before, and every call has to decide. To face emergencies, it's an indispensable system chain. The work that workers of 112 do is of enormous importance and importance, according to the first tenure, which will start the entire emergency structure. Attention to the emergency requires an integral approach, and it functions as a chain that always fails by the link or the weakest element. That is why in the emergency world all links or services in the chain must be properly greased. And to fatten a service is to provide it with sufficient human and technical resources, to provide it with sufficient training, and to provide it with decent working conditions. It is, after all, taking care of people who work under great pressure and with a strong vocational and delivery component. However, at the moment, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, there are above all two elements of emergency attention which are totally weakened by precariousness. One is the emergency health transport network, which I hope to talk about shortly, if there is no solution in the coming weeks, and the other leg, no doubt, is the emergency telephone reception service or 112-SOS Deiak zerbitzua. I look about you when the government has been socialized, even when it has been self-interested, you workers of 112 didn't take them as an essential link of emergency, because that is why you have to offer worthy conditions of work. Far from there, you take them like telephone dealers or propagandians, and that's why they have a contract in the contact centre or telemarketer (and, by the way, my solidarity with the strike that the operators of the telemarket today keep.) But the emergency area is not the center area. When a work has special cares, they must be admitted and paid. And instead, these workers are under the conditions of misery. 4,5 euros per hour don't reach clean, you don't respect time between blackmailes, but, as has been said, they're demanded of the minimum services we can apply to emergency services during the strike, 100 percent. You know also that men who work in the field of hardships have an immense will in general, and you make use of it. This situation became worse in the plot of 2012 now in a limb, because there were no subrogations, so many of them lost their job, others lost their antiquity. But not just that. The transport funds were lost, and in sickness 100% of the pay were stopped, and a lot of endless contracts went to the end of fashion. The condition of the Government showed the principal object of the government: 60% of what was considered as a contract, and the technical side is 35%. And besides this, from the restructuring of service made in 2012, there came the reductions of the workman. Now that we've asked questions about new assignments, we've been told that you're writing plagus. But there is no guarantee that there will be subrogation at the moment, whether the workers will have their own agreement or not, etc., etc. And I'm just about to finish, but I'd like to make a suggestion before I finish it, because I think it's strange that I'm doing the same thing as EAJ. On the 14th of June 2012, defended by Mrs. Arrivalga, EAJ brought up a position here and then for four years has done nothing. Then you said that P.S. was getting worse when the service became central in the Surdinian, that the Euskade was in trouble with the digital platform, and that the center 112 degrees the Gipuian and the absence of Araba ruin the knowledge of the country. What do you say today? If you can answer that, please... We also find that the knowledge of the country is indispensable to us at the time of their settlements, but what happened then? The pay was paid for, and the offsets were not paid, not the Arabs, much less the guitars, could not go to the Pardinaga to work without money. And this has acted upon the service which is offered, because the service has fallen into the knowledge of the land. And what have you done, in the last four years, to avoid it? Nothing, just drop it, please accept PSE's restrictions. That's what you've done. In this subject, the only resemblance between the two former governments is the prerogative. And, by the way, it would be no big deal, talking about the problems of displacement and the loss of employment, which, since the workers are here, then, let's talk about our travel diets: I, being lauded, charge 360 euros a month for coming here to work, and here the people who come from Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia will walk in other numbers, I suppose. Finally, I think EHG would have to take it very seriously to start taking steps to turn the 112-SOS calls into the public service by studying emergency from a public and integrated point of view. In this sense there is much to be done, and in the course of the law we shall follow this subject. For the moment, this point of view is reached at the first point in the transaction. It's true, too, that the delivery correction on the table is not perfect, but it opens the way to offer the staff of 112 a minimum of work conditions. He seeks his own eloquence, he foresees subrogation, the other his own. We think this is a matter of establishing the minimum conditions to face the present situation. And it's important, as the law says, that we take steps to make the entire emergency service public structure. And this is also recorded. It is true, too, that the table of negotiation which we proposed is not entered, and seems to us to be a privation. And, looking at the fourth point of the transaction, we do not think that the process of publicizing the service should be conditioned by economic solution, so far as it is a fundamental service, but well. For though the matter be not wholly confined to the present day, and with the solicitude of being generous with the improvements of the proposition, we shall vote for this medium which has been agreed upon. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u122	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Euscal Group Popula representative. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u123	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you, Madam President. And I would like to welcome and thank the service workers who are here today in this House. Thank you for the work you do every day, and thank you for the data you have provided both for this speech that I am going to do here today and for the amendment that I tabled in your day and that has finally been incorporated into that compromise amendment. I would also like to thank Mr Becerra and the Elkarrekin Group We can, for having accepted the contributions that we made in our entire amendment and, with other additions, having been able to come to this amendment which we hope will be supported by other groups, which some have already announced and which we also thank from here. Today it is true that there have been major debates, perhaps on issues that can come out more in the media, but I believe that this debate, the 112 debate, of the SOS Deiak, is just as important or more important than the debates that we have held this morning. And it is because we are talking about the situation of women workers – and I speak in women because they are mainly women – and it is because of the importance of the work they do. Because, as noted above, the Euskadi-SOS Deiak Emergency Coordination Centre is responsible for receiving all types of emergency and emergency calls, classifying demand, sending alarms to services, activating action plans and resources, and coordinating them with relevant services. And that's all a very small lapse of time. I believe that the debate that we are going to hold here today, despite the fact that it could now also be applied here that this is a competence of the Government, of the Department of Security, and that what we do by making contributions to the Government of something that is within its competence... But I do not think so, and it is also good that we should make these contributions here, and also, taking advantage of the fact that the Security Adviser is here, that we should do them ourselves, that we should hear the demands of the workers at least by the mouth of the groups that are going to participate in the debate, since they have not been able to hear them directly. By following the order of the amendment that we have signed, and as has been said here, first of all, what we are asking is for precisely the provisions of paragraph 26 of that Emergency Management Act to be complied with, and we therefore call for inclusion within the public organisational structure. We also say that this service is true that it is a service that is outsourced, but that is no excuse, that it is outsourced, so that one does not care about the working conditions of the people who perform this service, on two issues. One, because they are Basque citizens and therefore one should worry about them. And, two, because they deal with a public service, because the fact that it is subcontracted does not take away from it the character of a public service, and therefore the working conditions are totally and absolutely in the quality of that service. It is true, as has been said here, that this service was previously territorialized, and there was a time when a reorganization and modernization plan was carried out and everything was centralized in one place. What makes it possible to be in the government or to be in the opposition! At that time, an initiative was presented here by the Basque Nationalist Party, where nothing more and nothing less was asked than within two months, which today we thought four was a very short time..., because it was asked that within two months the situation be reversed and that the previous situation be returned to the condition that the service be decentralized. I said at that time, and I repeat it now, that it is true that in other places in Spain the service is centralized, but it is also true that I said at that time that there were dysfunctions in the service, and that those dysfunctions had to be studied and those dysfunctions had to be solved. Because, using words that I did not say on that occasion but that I fully share, service 112 has been a reference service in Euskadi, a service of attention to the public at times of emergency, at times when an emergency occurs. And, if all public services have to work well, of course this has to be a service of the highest quality, and it has been and is. And it is because it has a staff, with workers who are able to empathize, to give human response, fast and effective at hard and distressing times. But, as I say, they present many dysfunctions. And, of course, when the Basque Nationalist Party passed from opposition to the government... not two months, it took many months, and from decentralization nothing. And to correct the dysfunctions less. Because the situation of women workers has gone to worse, and that means that the quality of service has gone to worse. Firstly, I am not going to explain the economic and working conditions of the staff, because Elkarrekin Podemos' spokesman has already explained them, but it is also that, as has also been said here, the staff is insufficient, and this sometimes makes calls stop answering at the time when an emergency call should be answered. With what it means for those who are calling, who want quick attention, and with what it means to women workers, who know that they are not providing the service they have to provide in the time when they should provide it if the staff were sufficient. Because the number of calls has been growing over the years, and the number of people taking care of them has been decreasing over the years. With which, white and in bottle: the service is worse. To this we must add that it is necessary to create a work bag in order to carry out replacements in case of casualties, because at this moment the replacements are made by the workers in many cases between them, and therefore they have to lose hours of their work, of their free hours, of their necessary rest. And if it is always necessary for workers to have hours off, in a job like this, with a lot of tension, the need is even greater. We also request that the specification should include the subrogation of workers. This would result in employment stability and maintenance, as I say, of the quality of service. Let us not forget that this is a service in which the knowledge and preparation of staff are important, and not only the preparation, but also the possession of certain qualities. And it is not that we say it; it is that, if one goes to the specification of technical bases that have served for the award of the different contracts, in the profile of the staff of the contracting company it is required that, in addition to knowledge and experience in work of telephone care and speed of writing on the keyboard, it is necessary mental agility, capacity of synthesis and reasoning, emotional control, and capacity of control in situations of crisis. Moreover, specific training is required, among other issues, in the Basque legal and institutional framework, in the main risks, in operational tactics and emergency plans, in the territorial distribution of the means and resources available, in telephone care techniques, in the use of computer applications that support emergency calls and emergencies, in geography, in cartography, in railway, port and airport road infrastructures. And all this for the salary they earn a month. And this training is provided by the workers who are currently providing the service, who have provided it before and continue to provide it. But in the previous recruitment, as has been said here, there was no subrogation, so the workers are the same, but their seniority is as if they had entered again. We therefore believe that the new contract should follow the same pattern, but retain its rights; that subrogation should be included. And we think we have legal means to do so, it's a matter of will. Of will and of not shielding itself that it is an outsourced service. We also ask that the employment relations of the staff be governed by an agreement adapted to the particularities of the service. As has been said here, the agreement that applies to them is the teleoperator agreement or telemarketing, and we believe... without despising any job, but it is not the same thing to manage an impact on the receipt of a mobile phone, or to sell to one a change of telephone company, than to manage a health or police emergency, sometimes with lives at stake. We believe that anyone who imagines a person behind 112 knows that on the other side there is no simple teleoperator. What there is, as I say, is a person with specific knowledge, with skills, with empathy and with an emotional control capacity, who, as I say, must have them because the leaflets themselves demand it. Therefore, what we are asking for is that this specification should also lead to the regularization of working conditions. We also want specific training to be developed through the Basque Government to enable staff to be recycled and thus to improve the service, as well as to ensure that all the knowledge they possess is recognised through professional certification. Finally, and as has been said here, an economic feasibility study is being carried out to incorporate SOS Deiak-112 into the structure of the General Administration. We – we have said on many occasions – are not against subcontracting; we believe that a public service can be provided directly and indirectly, and this does not make you lose the consideration of public service. But we also consider that certain public services, and the emergency service is one of them, perhaps we should consider (and therefore request an economic feasibility study) being provided directly by the Administration. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u124	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u125	Well, I could also start my intervention by explaining the emergency service, but, as the three who preceded me have explained it perfectly (one with health, of the other we have had a topic of infrastructures...), I think it has become clear to us. I think we have to make one thing clear, and it is that the service that is received from 112, from SOS Deiak, is a service and a professional response, adequate and immediate, and that no one questions it at all. But, of course, I find this final proposal somewhat strange, which the last speaker who has spoken before me has so strongly defended. Because, first, we have there as a sort of reformulation as well as contradictory, between the first and second points: we incorporate them, but then we study them, and then we dedicate ourselves, in the central body of the proposal, to making from here a matter of regulating working conditions from Parliament itself, referring to the existence of a future convention, because at present the one that exists we do not like and do not want to be used as a reference. Well, but I believe – I am not going to enter at this time, I will do so later on specific issues – I believe that under this proposal there are two issues that are, from my point of view, nuclear. The first is that we must recognise that public procurement is not only a means of obtaining services under the most advantageous conditions for the administration, but also that, through public procurement, public authorities, administrations, can and must implement a policy of intervention in economic, social and political life, which at the same time ensures the efficient use of public resources, but also the achievement of other purposes of general public interest, such as decent working conditions. The public administration's recruitment policy can and must incorporate social clauses, even though someone here today defends them but then the government delegate, wherever someone wants to regulate them, appeals to them and takes them to court. It's a curious thing, but this contradiction in the speeches to me is always really moving. As I have said, the clauses allow for the introduction of special conditions in relation to the award and execution of contracts, which may have as their objective, for example, to ensure respect for the basic labour rights set in this sector, the promotion of employment of persons with difficulties in accessing the labour market, the socio-occupational integration of persons in situations or at risk of exclusion, the promotion of quality employment, safety, occupational health, environmental protection, environmental protection systems, the guarantee of linguistic rights, the promotion of equality between men and women... Of course, all this can be said by the social clauses, and the Socialists believe and defend, and we do not appeal, that the public administration must use these clauses for recruitment, to ensure those two effects that we have said before. And we also believe and defend that the Administration must have a vigilant, scrupulously vigilant attitude, in order to verify that these conditions, these clauses that are introduced, are fulfilled by the companies to which public contracts are awarded. Because it must be remembered that this capacity of the public authorities to carry out cross-cutting policies through contracting was something that was first collected by European legislation, which was subsequently (not so long ago, quite recently) reflected in the rules of different institutions. The last one was the Bizkaia Provincial Council, which announced it this week. And this Parliament, without going any further, less than a year ago it also did so when it passed Law 3/2016, for the inclusion of social clauses in public procurement, something that is not so far in time. And that is why we Socialists believe that this is the tool that this Parliament wanted to equip the whole public sector in the Basque Autonomous Community and that, in our view, it should be the basis on which the non-legislative proposal that has been put forward should have rested, so that, in accordance with it, the specifications for the recruitment of this call service 112 would include the clauses relating to the working conditions required of the contracting company, as reflected in the amendment that we have tabled jointly with the Nationalist Party, in which we expressly mention the introduction of clauses respecting the labour rights of workers, the subrogation of the staff, or the specific training plans on a continuous basis for the improvement of the service. But the proposal we were making should not have been interesting, because no group has addressed us in an attempt to compromise. This was to be more of a matter of debate than of being able to reach an agreement between all the forces. Well, I believe, however, that this must be done – and must not forget it – without exceeding the limits imposed by the current legal framework, and without this you want to make an interference in collective bargaining that you must freely agree to employers and workers' representatives. Because working conditions must be regulated precisely within this area of collective bargaining, although it is also true that there are some groups, which have intervened in advance, which do not like collective bargaining either. They like to impose conditions or withdraw rights more, but, well, those are passing issues. And this is precisely the second question that I think is nuclear and which I put to you at the beginning. And it is that contracting policies must have as a fundamental basis respect for the working conditions agreed on the basis of collective bargaining, and this respect is necessary to be incorporated – and for us fundamental – in the contract documents of public tenders, but without this implying interference by the Administration in fields that are not within its competence. Because it is within the framework of collective bargaining that the representatives of the workers, legitimately elected by them, demand, defend and agree and achieve the working conditions in which they are to develop their work. And I am convinced, and I am convinced, that it is in this framework of collective bargaining that the legitimate aspirations for improving the working conditions of women workers must be developed. And I do not believe, or hope, that what is intended by the proponents of the compromise amendment is that this Parliament at this time supplants trade unions and employers in the regulation of working conditions. I don't think that's what you're trying to do. Because I have to tell you that I also understand and respect, as it cannot be otherwise, the demands that the workers who are in the call service have moved us, because they seem very legitimate to me. Above all aspirations to improve the working conditions that pose us: more transport, retention, Sunday, special holidays... And in the claim that I was transferred in writing, there is nothing about the organization of the service. They say that their working conditions, taking into account how they see their development, are insufficient, and want to improve them. And I believe that they are in their right, but I believe that these demands must be raised within the framework of collective bargaining of the sectoral agreement that they have, whether we like it or not, but it is the contact center. And it's not by chance, because the Administration thought it was funny to use this one and not another one. It is because it specifically covers in the functional field, this agreement, which will apply to those companies that provide telephone services in emergency services, because emergency services appear in the functional classification of the operations manager itself. And I am also surprised that some speak, because the subrogation is also reflected in that collective agreement, and that is why it can be placed in the specifications. He says that 90% of the staff will have to be subrogated if they change the contract. And they also talk about the two free weekends a month. And then what needs to be done is to ensure that those rights that are recognized in the agreements to workers are fulfilled by the companies that receive public contracts. But we believe that it is up to these partners, the trade unions and employers, and not us, the public representatives, who have to agree on working conditions. Because it is very easy to come here, but I believe that, beyond the result of this vote – which, as the afternoon is going on, I imagine it will be a bit like the previous vote –, beyond the result of this vote, I believe that what has to be made clear to the workers in the service is that social clauses will be included by the Basque Government, as permitted by the law which this Parliament gave it less than a year ago, so that their basic labour rights will be guaranteed, that workers will be subrogated, and that continuing training plans will be valued. That is why we must not talk here about what are the more or less important debates. All the debates are important, and this is the most important one. And, therefore, we do not reject any speech and give our opinion and try to provide solutions, because it is not a matter of speech to look good. Because, of course, if here you tell me one thing but where you govern you do another, and if someone (you put the Madrid City Council) establishes social clauses in the city hall, and you send the government delegate to appeal them, then, man, it remains a little contradictory to the position that the People's Party has here. So, what goes behind other proponents is the issue of the publication of the service. We have said that public services can be provided directly or indirectly, and that is why there is capacity in the law to do so. And therefore, and because of the explanations I have given, and because of the lack or no intention of discussion with us, we will not support the compromise amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Lachaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u127	Thank you, ma'am. Good evening, Congressmen, Mr. President, chief officers. First of all, I'd like to welcome the SOS calls to the staff. First of all, I'll take the step we took on the previous law. I think it's indispensable if we're going to give a minimum of consistency to public work. And this is what is lacking in the correction of Podemos and of the Potionian Party, the coherence. In this regard, I would like to recall that on 7 April this Parliament adopted a proposal for a law for the inclusion of certain social clauses in public procurement, and both our group and the Socialist Group have taken note of everything concerning the recruitment of the telephone service SOS Deiak-112. Mrs Castelo has explained it magnificently, and I will not go into that matter. In this respect, we support our amendment, which draws a coherent path and which builds on the principle of legality and the principle of realism, a pragmatism which is clearly absent from the amendment agreed between the People's Party and Podemos. The amendment has four points, but I doubt that the paper can stand it all. First, you demand that the service be incorporated into a public organizational structure, as called for in paragraph 26 of the Emergency Management Act. This provision does not require the staff of a private enterprise to be transferred to a public structure. He doesn't demand it. That would be a legal misconception. And you know why? It is simply not feasible for many reasons, but the main one is that it is impossible to publish a service that has not been privatized. As it exists, there is not even a concession of a public service. The Euskadi Emergency Coordination Centre, formerly SOS Coordination Centers in the 83rd Decree, is a service attached to the Emergency and Meteorological Directorate. And, therefore, it is within the general administration and the public structure. In Euskadi, emergencies are neither attended to nor coordinated in a private but public manner. What exists is a service contract to provide assistance exclusively in the reception or attention of calls received in 112. But in addition, point 26 of the law that amended emergency management does not say what you say it says. What it really says is that "the Basque Government will implement the most appropriate public emergency care organizational structure to support and support the implementation of the powers conferred on it and the relevant department by this Act". This provision does not refer to the telephone service 112 (other articles refer to it), but to coordination and cooperation between the emergency coordination centres and the services to be provided by them, which are, of course, public. The precept in its context can only be interpreted in the sense that the public organizational formula that allows for greater efficiency in the emergency care system: general administration or any of the multiple possibilities offered by the system in order to obtain a personification of its own to the person who manages the services can be studied. The precept does not even state or advise the type of organization. Therefore, it does not force what the strange couple, the binomial Podemos-PP, claims. In the second point, they require that the procurement documents contain certain clauses which clash head-on with the basic state legislation. The basic state legislation, Mrs Llanos, the basic state law on public sector contracts. Do you really think that anyone who contracts a service through a public contract, subject to the general principles of public procurement, can demand that tenderers be governed by a specific non-existent agreement, which would have to be agreed a posteriori? In that case, what would be required of them as a contractual condition is that the undertaking, the contracting undertaking, should sit down and negotiate with the workers and enter into a new agreement whose working conditions would be completely unknown. Do you think that the conditions would necessarily be more favourable as a result of such negotiations? Do you honestly believe that? Companies are going to calculate their offers and their industrial profit margin on the basis of current market prices. What would be the margin for negotiation in such a case? There would be a risk that the contracting entrepreneur would promote the disengagement of the agreement in the future, which allows for the labour reform promoted by the People's Party and which Podemos and Bildu should know. In what situation would both the workers and the provision of the service be left? And if the workers and the employer did not reach such agreement on a new agreement, do they believe that this would have consequences for the award? Would it give rise to the contractual resolution? Or do you think that the government should sit down and negotiate such working conditions with the workers of a service company? Do you think all this is legally and legitimately possible? Well, no. The Basque Government will not be able to legally demand, as a contractual condition, that the contract awardee feel like negotiating, and that not only that, but that they reach agreements; "obligate them" – in quotes – to reach agreements. If the result of this negotiation is not a centre agreement, it will not be able to resolve the contract. He's not gonna be able to solve the contract. And you will not be able to do that, Mrs Llanos, you will not be able to do that, because it is not permitted by the basic state law on public sector contracts. And Parliament cannot force the government to act against the law, can it, Mrs Llanos? Parliament cannot force the government to act against the law, can it, Mrs Llanos? Therefore, these proposals are a toast to the sun, a good look or the sale of grêpelo, offering nothing but smoke. To promise smoke is not to protect the rights of workers; it is to deceive them, it is to cheat them out of ignorance or painfully. On the other hand, they require an increase in the staffing of that service in the new specification. It is not true that there is a staffing deficit in the provision of the service, Mrs Llanos. The current dimensioning of the service is correct. All calls are answered, and peaks of greatest demand, adequate and efficient, and it is thanks to the concentration of the number of people who can attend simultaneous calls in the same center, without the need to direct the call to another different center by saturation, as could happen before in some cases. And the contracted company, in addition to the regular, well-sized staff, acquires the contractual commitment to strengthen it when necessary, always at the discretion of the Administration. Moreover, the historical evolution that marks the annual call statistics is not what you have given (either Mr Otero, Mr Becerra or Mrs Llanos). The numbers are as follows, and we can make a projection that will continue to decrease in the future: year 2012, Mrs. Llanos, calls received, 1.267.302; year 2013, Mrs. Llanos, 1.144.945; year 2014, Ms. Llanos, 1.014.449; year 2015, Ms. Llanos, 987.553; year 2016, Ms. Llanos, 876.865. That's a descent. Maths aren't your thing anyway, but that's a drop. Statistics also show that, while the overall number of calls to 112 decreases, the number of incidents handled increases. This shows that service delivery is increasingly efficient. They also talk about developing specific training. If they refer to the need for a retraining or continuous training plan, that is logical to include in the brochures, and we agree with that formulation. But the formulation of the PP amendment and Podemos question the training of the workers, which they supposedly worry about. The workers who provide the service do so in a very professional and appropriate way, and this is because they are professionally qualified for it and have received training, appropriate training for it. Do you have any doubts about this? Do you think the personnel you claim to be defending are not qualified for their work? Well, such training is a requirement already in previous contracts, and it will be in the next ones. It is the proper training for the functions they must perform, not those they must not perform. In point 3 you say that you are granted professional certification. Certificates of professionalism are official documents issued by the Labour Administration, which accredit a person's professional skills for the development of a work activity. This refers to the qualifications of the National Professional Qualifications Catalogue; therefore, it is not a requirement that can be raised either to the Department of Safety or to the recruitment of this call service. There is a regulated professional qualification for these teleoperators, so what you should do, Mrs Llanos, at this point, should be talking to the People's Party in Madrid (talking to the People's Party in Madrid; you are a member of the People's Party, Mrs Llanos) and putting it to Mr Rajoy's government. And the fourth point, if I may, Madam President, the fourth point...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u128	You're just finishing up...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u129	The fourth point is, with forgiveness, a monument to incoherence. It is a monument to incoherence, because it urges to study the opportunity and economic viability of incorporating the Basque Emergency Service into the structure of the General Administration. Well, it does not appear that it is necessary to consider the feasibility of integrating, as requested in the fourth point. In the first point, they call for their integration, and in the fourth point, they call for the feasibility of such integration to be studied. I don't understand anything at all. And then, on the second point, then, somehow, I don't know how to combine it that is required at the same time, on the one hand, incorporate...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u130	Thank you, Mr. Lachaga. Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u131	... it is not known whether the service or the persons who provide it, to the public structure, whether the hirings to third parties also enter... They talk about hiring third parties, they talk about specifications, really, when they're talking about incorporating them into a public structure. Honestly, it's a monument to incoherence...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u132	Please. Thank you. Time is up...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u133	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u134	Thank you. Passing over to the answer shift, together, Podemos. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u135	Well, first of all, I want to apologize to the counselor. I was doing it in that seat. It is true that I am glad to see you here, listening to the problem of SOS Deiak, and it is also true that possibly, if I had heard them in June, this topic would not have arrived here. And, having arrived here, I would first like to thank the Group of the European People's Party and European People's Party and EH Bildu for their support, as promoters of this initiative, because, when there are people through, ideological differences must be left in the background. And I wish it were always like that, and it would have been also in the morning and in other important matters that are being dealt with in this House. But in this case it has been, and of course our intention in presenting it was not in any case to supplant the trade unions, as has been said here, but to bring this issue so that it would be known, that it would be public and that demands would have been met that otherwise they would have had no echo, neither social nor media. As I say, we did not have, we have no intention of supplanting the trade unions, and we believe that the social clauses to which Mrs Castelo refers, indefinite social clauses, are not sufficient to guarantee adequate working conditions. But Mr Latxaga has mentioned that we are not coherent, that we lack coherence, and in the approach that the two parties that support the Government there is a basic departure inconsistency: if this service is attached to the department as you say, Mr Latxaga, then we can talk about working conditions (if it is attached to the department, we can talk about working conditions); if it is not and is outsourced, then we will have to deal with those demands by another way, and if we cannot deal with those demands through the specification of conditions, we are in a dead end. Then publish the service! If conditions cannot be improved in any way, publish the service. And the only thing we have tried at the last point is precisely that, which values its possible publication. Because the meaning of our non-law proposition is fundamentally that this service is valued to its fair extent, that it is valued as a further part of the emergency service, not as an isolated part of teleoperators, that it is not; that it is adequately compensated for the work they do, that is, that it is valued for the work that these professionals do, and, thirdly, that it is valued for its possible publication, if necessary, because it will not be burdensome in that sense for the public arks. Mrs Castelo said: "It is that the professional service is not questioned". It is not questioned, but if it is neither valued nor economically nor organizationally, then what are we left with? You have spoken of the efficient use of resources. The efficient use of resources can be addressed through a possible publication, we have already said. All we ask is that this possible publication be studied. Because you speak of the service being effective, Mr Latxaga, and you have said how many calls are answered, but you have not said how many are not answered. Because that statistic was asked by the workers, and they have never been given. How many calls are stopping because the service is half-staffed, can you tell us? Will they ever be able to tell us? Of course, we are going to ask, because there is no feeling that there are fewer emergencies in the country and that everyone is in their homes. Emergencies are what they are, and you have to have enough staff and you have to have the service properly sized. And we think it might not be right now, and that's serious. That's serious. And speaking of the assessment, which is what I miss in the interventions of the two groups that support the government, the assessment that is made of this collective, has said Mrs Castelo "They do not like the agreement that applies to them". Sure! They're not teleoperators! They're not! It's just that they're nothing less than the gateway to this country's emergency service. And, therefore, although they are not specialized technicians or techniques, they do do do a specialized job, for which they are not being adequately remunerated. And that is the subject of this House, because what we are talking about is whether the emergencies in this country are properly attended to or not, and the secondary thing is whether that will have to be outsourced or directly. But in our proposal we also intend to address that, because what we do have clear, as a conclusion, is that a better public service cannot be provided without decent working conditions. And that is the conclusion to be drawn from this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u136	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u137	Mrs. Castelo, Mr. Lachaga, what a role she had! What paper here, that there are workers in the position they are in, and you make Groucho Marx's theater one after the other: "Lipartante de la primera be part of the struggle..." ! You know, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, "Yeah, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, "I don't know. And, after all, as my grandmother would say, a dog's ass. We didn't come to this situation because God wanted it or I don't know what. We have come to this state because PSOE made a concrete design in its time, because it was made without subrogation. That's why we've come to this situation later when you're going to explain it to him and then you're so complaining that the Jeltarian Party hasn't done anything in the government for four years. And, yes, the calls are getting lost. And I have already said that those who work in an emergency do what they do, con todo ego, do what they can. But when you can't, you can't. And before that, when SDAE and 112 were together, people from SDAE used to pick up the phones. Now, since everything has gone to the Churdinaga, the SDAEs and Gipus of the Arabs don't get calls, and when there's so little personal, the phone calls are lost. And it's true, it's very serious to say. But I think it's still worse if we put a proposition better or worse than it is here on the table and you're going to say it's impossible to say that we're going beyond the law and I don't know what. If the law doesn't leave us this service properly, you'll have to say that we'll have to change the law. But what you can't do is, on the one hand, say that service is public, that it's well given, and so on, and then when there's trouble, and then there's trouble, let them negotiate, that the government isn't subcontradicted between companies and workers. Do you understand me? It is very easy to say that service is public, that service must be public, and that it is the most emergency of all for this government, and for this people, a fundamental service, and then to say, "how much trouble we have, how they can settle it in the way they can." I don't think that's the attitude, in this respect. It is a wonder that now such a taste for social clauses has been shown to the legislator of the people, who came here after so many problems, so many difficulties, so many stones, and so many stones, and then, as far as you could, have been utterly disaffected. Now that's the solution, isn't it? So it seems to us that we can't leave this as a private matter, like a private concern between companies and workers. And if it's really a fundamental service, we must have other clear commitments, and not here, I'd say, we'd spend the Françoise, saying: "How can we do nothing more? What can we do? "I don't know. I think you've given a good example, both of one and the other, how it's that you spend a lot of time on this stage that keeps us from real or everyday reality. I asked you a couple of questions you didn't answer. I'd ask you again. I've asked some questions about you, I haven't answered, and I'd like to answer. And, yes, it seems to me, Mrs. Castellao, and I'll say it again... You said we weren't supposed to negotiate business, but it seems to me that if they're on top of us and we're on our own to do media work. So I'll leave him here. I think you've still got a second shot, and I hope you've got a little more of it, and I don't spend your time in these difficult moments, or in these difficult situations. As my mother would say, there are not four crowns. I mean, if we want real, high-quality services, we should be willing to pay properly. And there is no other mystery here. There is no magic here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u138	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Euscal Group Popula representative. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u139	Thank you again, Madam President. The truth is that what a coincidence!, isn't it?, that the amendments tabled by the groups supporting the Government always enter the last ones in the Register, right? Of course, then you have the opportunity to close the debate and not be able to answer. Mrs. Castelo, I was already used to the classes you gave me when we shared general meetings, and today you tried to give me back classes of social clauses. I probably know more than I do, I won't say no, but I do know something, because this topic was discussed here and I was the one who discussed this topic. And you were talking about my intervention being moving and contradictory. Well, touching yours not, but contradictory to others you've had here... A long time, eh! Because, if you say – you have told us in the previous point – that Mr Ruiz de Arbulo was going to have a hip dislocation, you have all run out of hips. Everyone! Because, come on, if Mr Itxaso heard your debate here today and compared it to some of those he has done in this House, the turn is Copernicus, listen. And you say... you didn't say the minute of glory, which I appreciate, but you said our debate was to get along with the workers who were upstairs. Look, if they had been received by the Basque Government, if they had been received by the Counsellor, if they had been able to put the questions to her, this debate would not have arrived here. Because this debate has brought him here, it has brought him the other part of the strange couple's binomial, it has brought him precisely to raise an issue, because the workers have not been able to raise the issue to which they should have raised it. I understand that it is difficult to move from opposition to government, from government to opposition, from where I said "I say" I say "Diego", but I am convinced that if this debate had taken place a year ago you would be saying this. And only one thing: really, Mrs. Castelo, do you want me to believe that the work of the people who receive the call is the same as the one who sells it to you who changes from one phone company to another? That it is the same job and that the conditions that have to regulate that job have to be the same? And, Mr Latxaga, you agree, because you have signed the joint amendment, but the truth is that Mrs Castelo is completely committed to this amendment, and you have made it clear that you are presenting the amendment so that it does not seem that you are not interested in the subject. But she's been through it like... well, that neither, that's that there's no solution. There's no solution! That what I don't understand is neither... It's a public service. You said, "You don't have to include it in... because it's already a public service." That is, in the working conditions that are arranged between the company and the workers. And that the company has to have its profit percentage. I do not deny that when a company provides a service it has to have its profit percentage, but, I also tell you, we increase the amount by which the service leaves, and in that case we can continue with the profit percentage of the company, which has to have it, and that the workers have better working conditions. It's as easy as that. But I'm also going to tell you one thing. I have said that on many occasions, and I do not incur contradictions. I can say that a service does not cease to be public because it is provided indirectly and through a company, but also – I have always said – as is a public service, that the service works is public responsibility. And, for the service to work, a fundamental part in this case are the workers. And that the working conditions of these people influence the quality of service, and the Department of Safety and Security has to imply that the service works properly, and it has to worry about those conditions and how the service works. And you tell me the calls have decreased. If you're telling me yourself! Why? Because there's less staff! What he does not say, as he has been told, is which ones remain unanswered. And I'll tell you, the number of incidents has increased. That has increased. Of course they stay unanswered, because there are not enough staff! Because there's not enough staff. And I have to tell you one thing, Mr. Latxaga. What are we left with? What are we left with? Because you on other occasions, come on, disobedience to the state is... All day long they're with "They won't let us do it," right? "How they do not respect the will of this Parliament! Let's see! What is approved here is the will..." Now, when it harms the Basque Government, "Hey, how are we going to do something that they don't leave us in the Government of Spain! (which is not true, but good) As here directly to the government of Mariano Rajoy could not blame him, they could not blame him, then already "How are we going to do something...? How are we going to do something to see if they're going to turn to us?". Look, you know what I'm saying? That at mass and respite you can't be. And you stop going to Mass or respite, but solve the working conditions of the people who are providing this service, because it is an essential service. It is, as you say, a public service and responsibility of your Government. And what I ask of you is that you receive them and put the means that you have at your disposal, that you have them, for this service to work. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u140	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u141	We haven't had a debate in a while! Well, let's do it in reverse order, which I see... Let's see, it's not like I'm teaching you lessons. I just know you don't share the issue of social clauses. And what a pure contradiction you've had, but not here in the rostrum, that here you can have a speech of the most coherent. It is the attitude you have in the forums where you do not govern and the attitude you have there where you govern, and what you do and ask the government delegate to do in other parliaments in which we want and we bet on social clauses, as you have done with the Bizkaia Provincial Council or as you have done with the Madrid City Council. And that, just in case, looks like I told you in the first round of surgery, so you could defend yourself in this second! Because there are people who in that first don't mean anything (jo, don't answer me, that I go the last). No, if I don't have a problem with that! I tell you in the first turn what I think, what I believe and what I defend, and with ardour. But you haven't given me an answer to that. For something it will be. I have hips, and waist also so you don't get into any more business. But what it seems to me..., it seems to me not incoherent, it seems to me indecent, is that it is governed where there are competences to favor the issue of collective bargaining and what is done is to close it, and then come to a parliament that has no competence, that is not its area of work, and that is asked to regulate the working conditions that we find elsewhere. That's what I think is no longer incoherent, but indecent. And, well, that's kind of like coming here making Quixote of the workers, isn't it? At this point in the movie, Nerea, you're not cheating on me. We've known each other for a long time, so less preaching, and more giving wheat where you can. By the way, regarding the partner who has intervened from (see if I find you where I have pointed you)..., oh yes, from Bildu, you have told me that often paper that Mrs. Castelo has. Paper, paper... We all have paper. You know what's going on? That I here defend what I also believe, and with conviction. Because I will remind you that the issue of the development of social clauses in Gipuzkoa did so with us, because we are the ones who believe that with social clauses we can. And not only there, but also here in this Parliament, we advocate that the social clauses as far as we can go, so that they do not appeal to us and do not suspend them. Because you told me more or less that I have a piece of paper, and, man, to make theater, theater we all do. Because I could remind you of the award of the telephone service made by the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council of the transport service when it ruled Bildu, which fell into a company (because it outsourced the service under its responsibility), a Valencian company, which, by the way, applied an agreement beyond that, not even within the Community, won the award. So, if we have examples for everyone! But to me what I care about here, and this is already a little bit for the proponent who tried to pick up the proposition or the claims made to us by the service workers... He told me that he was bringing him to this House so that he would be known and not pass as a labour dispute any more. Perfect, but, beyond that, what interests me is to give a way or a way out to the workers and to the problems that have manifested to us. And that is why in the amendment that we had tabled we said, with that instrument that the Basque Parliament has been endowed with, that are the social clauses, let us introduce in the new specifications... Because we are right now in time, because if we are talking about service being provided directly and not indirectly, then, I told you, we disagree, but if we are talking about guaranteeing basic working conditions... That we do not like the agreement, has misunderstood me when he said that it is the agreement that the Basque Government likes. No, no! It is the agreement that has been determined by the representatives of the workers and the employers of the sector. Whether we like it or not, it is the frame of reference that is mandatory for the company. From there, any job improvement that you want to propose, that there is also right, and I share and defend that it has to be done in this area of collective bargaining in order to improve the working conditions... Because you were saying to me, "Can't the working conditions be improved already?". Yes, of course I do! Those of these workers and those of other workers in other sectors and in other provinces. Through what? From the tool we have been equipped with, which is collective bargaining. And not the autonomous parliaments or the territorial parliaments. We cannot try to supplant the employer from parliaments, which is a bit of a temptation sometimes faced by certain groups. And it's true, they're not teleoperators, no. They're not teleoperators. They are professional emergency managers, and they have recognized it. Therefore, I believe that what we wanted to propose here but did not seem to them anything interesting, but I can also tell and guarantee to the workers that this is going to be included in the contract, in the leaflets that the Basque Government is going to take out, are social clauses that guarantee the basic labour rights to which you are entitled, will be collected the subrogation of the workers and the plans of continuous training, so that you provide and continue to provide a good service.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. And finally, the Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Lachaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u143	Good afternoon again. I know it's late and I'm the last speaker, but well. I cannot resist to make some appreciation of so many things that have been said here today. Still no one can explain to me, or has not been able to explain to me, how it is reconciled that it is required at the same time, on the one hand, to incorporate, on the one hand, it is not known if the service or the persons who provide it, to the public structure, and, on the other, the persistence of future recruitments to third parties. No one can explain it to me, because there's no explanation. The calls to 112, Mrs. Llanos, have dropped; the number of calls has dropped. You know why? Because citizenship makes better use of that service. First of all, citizens know these services, they know how they work... And then there is also another question: that all the so-called hollows, the calls that have no one on the other side, the calls by joke, by mistake... Well, the calls are somehow malicious. Those are the two reasons why the number of calls has dropped. If the proponents' claim is to give the company's workers the impression that it would be feasible to incorporate them into public employment ipso facto, by parliamentary design, by skipping the requirements of the legislation and the principles of equality, merit and capacity, they are being done a weak favor (not you, but some other parliamentarian has said so), since it would soon be discovered that it is a false promise that would end up crashing into the wall of reality. There is a service contract exclusively for the telephone service of the reception of calls to the emergency telephone 112. Staff attending this service do not conform to the staffing of the Emergency Coordination Centre. I've explained that before, and I think you need to know that in the 1990s those who somehow did that service were ertzainas themselves. So, hardly the conditions of the people we have here today can get worse, if due to that outsourcing, supposed outsourcing, they owe their job. Mr Becerra, you will agree that it is an irony of fate that pacts this amendment-Frankenstein with the People's Party, demanding the inclusion of clauses in administrative contracting, largely seeking to circumvent the most harmful effects of labour reform, approved by the Rajoy Government and the absolute majority of the PP in the General Courts. The intention, regardless of content, is clear: to inflict a parliamentary defeat on the Basque Government and the groups that support it. It was made clear yesterday by his spokesman, Mr Martínez, in his statement to the media. He cares little about the legitimate aspirations of the workers, the social agenda, but that defeat. Even if there will be collateral damage with face and eyes (people, Mr. Becerra, people), and you create expectations, you are creating expectations that you know you cannot meet. You know perfectly well. And the victims will be, unfortunately, those you claim to be defending. Mrs Llanos also embarks on this adventure for a single purpose: to demonstrate the parliamentary defeat of the Basque Government. I must confess that when I read your amendment, Mrs Llanos, I had to pinch myself to see if it was the People's Group that signed it. You pass EH Bildu and Podemos on the left. Who was gonna say that, right? The famous rumor that politics makes strange bedfellows in this case comes to the hair, and more seen this morning. You, Mrs Llanos, have supported the proposal for a law of 7 April because you are more likely than the original ILP, Mrs Llanos. You, Mrs Llanos, intervened in the debate by saying nothing more and nothing less than the following: "What was intended with the original ILP was to leave the existing labour legislation worthless, to leave the labour reform worthless, to skip a regulation approved by the Congress of Deputies, and to do so in a chamber, this Parliament, which has no competence to do so". End of date. It's only been nine months, Mrs. Llanos. That's a lot of consistency for you! To demonstrate that defeat you have allied yourself with Podemos and EH Bildu, and you do not hesitate to leave behind the principles that were or seemed to be holy and sign of the People's Party: compliance with the current legality, legal certainty, even budgetary rigour. Last week his spokesman in the Finance Committee, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, said that if the Basque Government presented rigorous accounts, without frivolities or treats, the People's Party would be there to reach agreements. Is it true that paper can handle everything? Do you thus manage public services where you have government responsibilities? I don't think so. I have come to think, Mrs Llanos, that your attitude is due to a personal animosity to the Security Advisor or to the department itself. Of course, what seems clear is that this distension that the People's Party announces so much in relation to the Basque Nationalist Party and this government is not coming to the Department of Security. If they ever come to unblock the situation, I hope they don't name you as an interlocutor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u144	Thank you, Mr. Lachaga. The discussion is over and we're going to vote together in the middle line that Podemos and Euscal Populars have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 38; the opponents, 37; the whites, 0; abstentions, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-01-26.u145	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. [[Applause]] I'll read two institutions of speech to you next. Expression: Emils' Manyoma and Joe Javier Rodalgal. "On the 17th of January, they were found dead in Buenaventuran, Colombian, Emilen Manyoma Mosquera, and his husband Joe Javier Rodallegal. "He was a member of the Society of CONZ Communidas, a member of the Discrudecial Paz, and Comision Interclesial Justicia y Paz was helping him. That board took part in the Basque Program of Human Rights Definators at the United Nations. "The delegation of the Basque parliaments and of several social institutions traveled to Colombia in January 2014, and the rest of it was together with Emils' Manymoma in order to get the state of the murder leader's community. This meeting took place in Popayán, the capital of the Cauca department. "He expressed his concern about the paramilitary presence and action in the Buenavista area, where the paramilitaries have had the social, economic and political control of that place. Similarly, Emilsen and her husband reported corporate interests against law in the collective territory of Calima; they also denounced the omissions and tolerances of the public force with drug trafficking. "As a member of CONPAZ, leader Manyoma worked hard for the peace process in Colombia. Since the middle of last year, he had been supporting the documentation of murders and disappearances for the Truth Commission and identifying drug trafficking operations and motivating objection to operations in his collective territory. "For all this, "1. The Basque Parliament sympathizes with the pain of relatives, companions and companions of Emilsen Manyoma and Joe Javier Rodallega. "2. The Eusgarchian is extremely concerned in the state of criminalization and stigmatization which the defenders of human rights are exposed to. "3. The Eusunians expect that the Government of Colombia should set up all the measures necessary to investigate these murders, so that the responsibility of their respective interests may be explained, and that the actions opposed to the defenders of human rights may not be punished. "4. It's a priority for the Basque parliament to preserve the integration of the defenders of the human rights of Colombia. "And 5th "The Basque Law will send this agreement to the Embassy of the Colony in the State." The institutional representation of the Day's Memory of Holust: "The Parliament of Europe established that the 27th of January should be the day of European memory. In the same way, in the same year, the General Assembly of the United Nations, in the '42th gatherings, chose the Victivity of the Holocated to remember day. The reason for choosing this date was that day that Auschwitz-Berkenau's Esterminio was delivered. "This day aims to recall in an extensive and inclusive way the victims of the genocide and Nazi extermination: Jews, gypsies, opponents, homosexuals, sick people or anti-fascist fighters, etc., among them hundreds of Basques and Basques. "That is why, as today, it is possible to remember all these millions of victims and according to the statements of the European Parliament and the United Nations to show a frank rejection of the partial or total denial of what genocide and extermination entailed as a historical fact. "The American law demands the New World's New World to continue working against the phenomena of Racism and xenphobicism, and against the ethnical or religious persuasions, and calls all the citizens, and their organizations to continue a watch-out, so that none of them should ever happen in the world again. "In the same way, on the international day of the Holasto, we want to honor all the anti-fascist wrestlers who suffered the pursuit of the Nazis, and especially those nearly 200 Basques. We cry out for their right to truth and justice, known by those victims of the Nazi's genocide and stermini. We must demand that the rights of these victims be protected, we must face the arbitrary immunity of those victims' rights. Our shock and memory for all these victims. The struggle against Fascism and freedom, for justice, for democracy, and for their dignity, has a glorious place in our historical memory." Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was 6 p.m. and forty-four.
