ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-11.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. One theme: "Agreeful corrections made to the bill of law which is accepted by the General Prev. 2018th of Euscal Autonomy in Erlaboria. The discussion and the vote. "Madech's representative has the word to defend the bill." Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-11.u1	Thank you, Congressman. Good day, presidents, chiefs and congressmen. I'm here today, and in the name of Eukon, I'm here to present the second budget of this law, and as well known to you, it's no small matter to me. No way! The most significant law of the year is where the possibility of all the policies of a whole government is concentrated and the power of the next year's economic career. He said that on behalf of the Basque Government I present to you the draft general budget for the 2018 financial year, which is approved by this House, and this in a procedure which cannot be regarded as minor, since the approval of these accounts also depends on the continuation of the social progress of Euskadi for another year in fruitful terms. As I pointed out in my appearance before the Committee on Finance and Budgets last 6 November, this is a budget project which has been drawn up at a time when the Basque economy describes a profile of progressive recovery, which is nevertheless subject to downward risks, rather than endogenous factors due to the multitude of elements of uncertainty that weigh on the evolution of our environment. This draft budget, which I am presenting today, I will not tire of saying, reaffirms its commitment to strengthening the Basque system of social protection, consisting of essential public services and services, in particular in the field of health, education and social cohesion policies. And it reiterates its commitment to accompany the growth expectation that is opening up, in a renewed boost of real public investment. As usual, and as usual, I shall divide my representation into three parts. The first to describe the state corresponding to the economic context and to the attorney stability, the second to reflect the most prominent characteristics of the budget next year, and finally to discuss the course of the political negotiation of this year in order to appreciate the budgets. As has traditionally been the case, because this is essential, first of all I will place the draft general budget law for the next financial year in its economic context and in its context of budgetary stability and financial sustainability; that is, where we come from, in what economic situation we are in, and what parameters of stability have been agreed with the State last July to make this year's budgets and those that are to come. The second reflection will be to describe the most conspicuous features of the 2018 fiscal year's spending and public income, all in a nutshell. Finally, I will also comment, in a telegraph, on the outcome of the negotiations with the political groups so that this project can be carried out. These budgets for the 2018 financial year have been drawn up in an international economic context marked by a certain optimism. These budgets for 2018 have been exploited in an international economic context marked by a certain optimism. In the first half of 2017, the global economy as a whole grew by 3.5%, suggesting that the forecasts made for the year as a whole, which the International Monetary Fund has set at 3.6%, will be met with a high probability. The good tone of the world economy will be maintained next year, for which growth is estimated at 3.7%. The United States is leaving behind the specific difficulties it experienced in 2016 and is recovering the expansive tone, with an increase in the first half of this year of 2.1% and four continuous quarters of acceleration. The forecasts do not give much room for improvement and anticipate rates of 2.2 and 2.3 % for this year and for the next year. It plays in its favour the strong boost of employment and the low unemployment rate, already at 4.3%, which will encourage growth in consumption and private investment. The European Union has a similar trend, reaching a growth rate of 2.2% in the first half of 2017 and projected a change for the year as a whole of 2.3%, which will be at 2.1 for the next financial year. All the large economies in the area have joined this acceleration and are converging in rates, although it still highlights the momentum of the Spanish economy, which is growing at 3.1%, and Germany at 2%, but with France already growing at 1.7 and Italy at 1.5. The United Kingdom is barely affected by the uncertainty generated by Brexit, and notes a figure slightly below 2% in the first half of the year. Last October, economic confidence in Europe has been at unknown levels since 2007, and even Spanish has reached its highest value since 2015. For all emerging countries, the International Monetary Fund forecast shows a smooth acceleration profile for this year and next, with a result of 4.6 for 2017 and 4.9 for 2018. The Asian countries, with China and India at their head, will again be the engines of the area, but the expected improvement comes from Russia, Latin America and Africa, which will achieve significantly higher growth than in 2016 thanks to the recovery of the price of raw materials. The Basque economy, for its part, has remained in an expansive tone during the first half of 2017, a period when it grew in the order of 2,8 %. The inertia that provides you with low inflation, an expansive monetary policy and a relatively cheap euro, strong employment generation and environmental recovery is greater than expected. Job creation is one of the pillars of this expansionary phase of the cycle. Thus, in the first half of 2017, the number of full-time equivalent jobs increased by 2.1%, implying that some 45,000 jobs have already been recovered since 2014, although about 70,000 jobs are missing to return to the pre-crisis level. With all this information, the Department of Finance and Economy has revised the macroeconomic picture for the period 2017-2018, and the Basque Government anticipates GDP growth of 2.9% for 2017 and 2.4 for next year. Job creation is set at 1.7%, suggesting that another 15,500 full-time jobs will be created, and that the average figure next year will exceed 930,000 jobs, increasingly close to 985,000 in 2008. The unemployment rate will continue to fall, and will reach the target of below 10% by 2018. The macroeconomic scenario described contextualizes a draft budget which must also take into account the multiannual framework, with its economic trends and a path towards correcting imbalances. To complete the external scenario of the 2018 accounts that I now present, we must also not lose sight of the fact that the process of fiscal consolidation that affects the economic and budgetary policies of the European Union, and therefore also those of Euskadi, greatly limits the ability to add revenue through deficit and debt. These parameters for the next triennium are, as reflected in the economic memory of the budget, those deriving from the last agreement of the Joint Economic Concert Commission of July this year. All this implies that budgetary policy must make an effort to adapt to the cyclical situation, which, as I said, is aimed at reducing economic growth, so as to compensate to some extent for its effects. Secondly, by following the figures for the budgets for the 2018 financial year, I would like to offer a quick reading of the main features. First of all, it must be said that this is the first budget to be approved following the agreement reached with the State regarding the liquidations of the quota of previous years and the methodology for determining the Basque Country quota for the five-year period 2017-2021. It is therefore the first budget to be approved after reaching a fiscal peace with the State for the rest of the legislature and some more exercise. It's the first budget we've made since the legislature is over and the US prosecutor has obtained for another act. Although it is a very short-term envelope, this budget is undoubtedly due for a year 2017 with very positive economic consequences, in terms of economic update of the agreements on the quota described. This has enabled, as we have repeated on enough occasions over the last few months in this same parliamentary forum, to face and advance some expenses that naturally should have been incurred in 2018, which allows us to address next year's public policies, in terms of spending, with some calmness. Proof of this is the legal rule for the advance of the 2012 extra pay quarter, which was still to be recovered by the officials of the Basque Autonomous Community and whose approach was expected in principle for the next financial year. As a second feature, it should be noted, from a more structural and construction point of view of the Basque public budget model, that this exercise has attempted to test an alignment of public policies with the government's strategic planning for the legislature, or at least with the economic purposes of the government's plans for the 2018 financial year. More than anything, it is an exercise of budgetary realism in the strategic planning activity of the Government, which we hope will have a specific evaluation and follow-up in the successive years. Having made the above annotations, which contextualise the 2018 budget in global terms, the general budgets of the Basque Autonomous Community for 2018 will count on total resources of 11,486.4 million euros, which means an increase of 3,9 % compared to those approved for the 2017 financial year and an increase of 426,7 million euros in absolute terms. They arise within the framework of a fiscal consolidation scenario, with the aim of reaching a zero deficit and a debt level of less than 13% of gross domestic product by 2020. In fact, without debt amortisation and the effect of the Y there is a budgetary increase of EUR 290.4 million, i.e. an increase of 2.9% over the previous year. The depreciation of the debt and the Y effect can be seen to increase 290,4 million dollars' budget, i.e. increase of 2,9% of the past year. As far as revenue is concerned, the contributions of the foreign parliaments show an increase of 420,1 million euros, from 9,103,2 in the 2017 financial year to 9,523,3 million in 2018. This means that 82,9 % of the revenue from the budget corresponds to the contributions from outside Parliaments. It has also been set up within the framework of the commitments agreed within the Joint Committee on Concertation of 19 July, which state that the deficit should be reduced from the current 0,6 % to the 0,4 % of 2018 (about EUR 150 million less available), and that the public debt should not exceed 14,2 % of gross domestic product. As for debt amortization, the 2018 budget proposal produces an increase of 325,5 million euros, from 788,4 this year to 1,113,9 next year. Analysis of the evolution of investments, capital transfers and increase in financial assets shows an increase to 942.6 million euros, which is 64.6 million euros more than in 2017. This draft budget adjusts the implementation of the management appropriations of the new Basque railway network (the Basque Y and the southern variant), which goes from the 350.5 million considered in 2017 to the 161.4 million collected in 2018. The Basque Government considers this figure to be an amount adjusted to the planned programming. Investments, once the management appropriations for the Basque Y and the southern variant have been reduced, rise by 7.4%, and the government is thus recovering the pace of investment. In the context of the economic recovery in which the Basque economy is located, it is also necessary to highlight the commitment of the Science, Technology and Innovation 2020 Plan, since the Government will allocate 433.3 million euros, distributed in the departments of Education, Health, Economic Development and Infrastructure, Public Governance and Self-Government and Lehendakaritza, which means an increase of 22 million euros (by 5.4 per cent) over 2017, thereby fulfilling and exceeding the commitment made by the Executive. If the draft budget for 2018 is analysed from the perspective of the economic classification, the amount of Chapter I, staff costs, reflects the increase in the remuneration of staff serving the Administration by 1.5%, and also includes contributions to the social security institution Itzarri with half a point, which may be raised to a point throughout the financial year if agreed by the Governing Council. Chapter IV of expenditure (transfers and grants) shows a volume of EUR 3.449.9 million, and a similar figure of EUR 3.510.8 million is allocated to Chapter II (operational costs), which includes the provision of the Osakidetza programme contract. The actions covered by the three previous expenditure chapters include income guarantee income financing or the financing of the Basque education system, including some of the actions incorporating the highest amounts of expenditure. As regards expenditure under Chapter III (financial expenditure), these represent EUR 233.3 million, compared with EUR 248.3 million in the previous year, i.e. EUR 15 million less. Generally speaking, with these budgets, the Basque Government remains faithful to its commitments to ensure and improve public policies and to enhance economic development and employment. Thus, 77 % of the budget is allocated to social expenditure (health, education and social policies), while public investment policies are being promoted. I should also like to point out that the guarantee of high-quality public services depends on the conditions under which the staff of the Administration carry out their work. Following the inevitable difficulties resulting from a severe crisis, the Government has set itself the objective of taking clear steps in improving the salaries of staff. All this is reflected in the figures I will comment on below. Health is the department that experiences the biggest increase, with a budget of more than 3,671 million euros, which is 128 million euros more than in 2017. The main items are those of Osakidetza, with more than 2,750 million euros, and those of pharmacy, with an amount greater than 518 million. In addition, investments in Osakidetza amounting to 66.8 million are envisaged this year. Education, for its part, has almost 2,717 million euros, which means an increase of 1.9% compared to 2017 in relative terms, although in absolute terms it has an increase of more than 51 million euros, this being the second department that grows the most in relation to 2017. I would like to point out here, however, that the chapter on education will receive a strong additional boost in the expenditure to be implemented in 2017, made possible by the revenue from the agreement of the Joint Committee on Economic Concert, so that if we take into account the growth of the department's expenditure, without considering personnel costs, it would be 3.5%. The Department of Employment and Social Policy, the third in budget amount, provides for a budget of EUR 1,014 million. Income guarantee income is updated by 1.5%, as are the salaries of staff serving the public sector, and together with the supplementary housing benefit costs EUR 491.3 million. Social emergency aid is maintained at EUR 27 million, and the allocation of active policies, on the other hand, is increased by EUR 15.6 million within Lanbide's budgets to EUR 333.5 million. For its part, the data of the Department of Economic Development and Infrastructures require an explanation following the reduction in the implementation of the management appropriations of the new Basque railway network. In 2017 the department managed a budget of 694 million euros after adjusting the 350 million budgeted for these purposes. In 2018 the department has 727 million euros after doing the same operation with the new budgeted amount, that is, adjusting the 161 million corresponding to this year, and in this way it experiences an increase of 4,8%, which implies an absolute increase of 33,3 million euros. Its main items are infrastructure investments, amounting to EUR 14.3 million, and industry, agriculture and fisheries programmes, which have increased by EUR 4.6 million. In 2018, Security will manage a budget of 640 million euros with an increase of about 15 million euros. The most prominent items would be staff costs, amounting to 489, and contributions to the Police Academy of 15 million euros. In turn, Environment, Territorial Policy and Housing has about 206 million euros, and has experienced an increase of 14 million compared to 2017. An impetus for environmental investment is regained, and allocations for environmental management are strengthened through Ihobe and URA. In addition, the housing allowance is increased by EUR 8 million to guarantee the subjective right of access. Lehendakaritza will have 117 million euros this year 2018, in a budget that consolidates development cooperation, with 45 million euros, and also increases the budgets of Emakunde and the Gogora Institute. The Department of Public Governance and Self-Government will experience an increase of 5.5 million, to a budget of 118 million euros. The Department of Culture and Linguistic Policy is growing by 3%, up to EUR 250 million, and includes an additional allocation for EITB of EUR 4.8 million, and for tuition aid in Basque, over EUR 2 million. Labour and Justice will handle EUR 209 million, and Tourism, Trade and Consumption increases the budget by 2.9%, with an amount above EUR 38 million. And finally, Finance and Economy will manage a budget of EUR 50 million. These are, in short, the main magnitudes and characteristics of the draft general budget law of the Basque Autonomous Community for the financial year 2018, which are complemented by its normative support, that is, the articulated text of the law, which in this exercise, even following the normalized structure during the last few years, brings as a more significant novelty a first rereading of the institutional scaffolding dedicated to the policies of industrial economic promotion and internationalization in the Basque Government. This is represented by the changes in the characterization of the Euskadi Society for Competitive Transformation and the final budget and actual implementation of the Basque Internationalization Agency, whose budgets are approved. This is consistent with strategic planning in this area. A budget for 2018, in short, with a strategic orientation through its insertion into a medium-term horizon and its linkage with the objectives of the main strategic and departmental plans. That said, I turn to the last part of this presentation, which refers to a critical description of the negotiations with the parliamentary groups to proceed with the search for a majority that would allow an agreement to carry out the 2018 accounts. Naturally, aware of the parliamentary position of the Government and of the groups that support it, we have tried to reach consensus and agree with the opposition groups in order to seek their approval by this House. As in last March for the 2017 budgets, meetings have been held with all parliamentary opposition groups. With some we have found some approximations; with others we have discrepancies of economic approach, but above all of political order. We have exchanged our ideas with Euskal Herria Bildu and with Elkarrekin Podemos, groups that did not coincide with the draft budgets, and, although it seemed that there could be ways of understanding in the meetings that have taken place, the truth is that, for extra-budgetary reasons in both cases, I have to say that it has not been possible to reach any agreement. In my view, it is legitimate to have such differences, since each one strengthens its position in this context. I hope that in the future there will be spaces for collaboration. Within the political game, it is lawful for each group to maintain its personality from its political prism. We have also discussed and negotiated with the People's Party, and although much of the negotiation could have been conditioned by fiscal spaces that have to do with the budgetary revenues of future years and on which I will not return to this presentation, because they are known and redundant, we have agreed to develop social policies aimed at improving our economic fabric, health, entrepreneurship, reconciliation of family and working life, and we have agreed that in this situation it is good that there are budgets in these conditions. At this point, I would like to stress the willingness to dialogue and to the agreement of the People's Group, which has contrasted priorities, discussed and agreed amendments with the Government, and generated sufficient support for their adoption, as was the case last year. We can say, in short, that this budget is a balanced, realistic budget, which improves the contribution of public expenditure to the Basque economy, and that it will be important for the stability and solidity of our productive fabric, without neglecting in any way the Basque system of welfare and social protection. Practise, realistic, who improves the contribution of public expense in Eucharistic economy, and which will be of great importance to give stability and stability to our production, without in any way dedicating the system of the welfare and social protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-11.u2	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Together, the Podemos team has the representatives to defend the full-word correction. They will defend themselves between Hérinandez and Martínnez. So, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-11.u3	Good morning, Congressman, Mr. Substude, Mr. President. The parliamentarians of Ezker Anitza-United Left will defend the amendment to our entire coalition, Elkarrekin Podemos. An amendment to the whole that focuses public spending priorities on truly public services. Faced with the Government's model of transferring resources to the private sector through concerts, we want a strong and self-sufficient public structure. We stand for an amendment to the whole of which seeks to create jobs, as opposed to the government model which seeks to encourage them to be created by the market. We stand for an amendment to the whole dump in the areas where the popular classes that the worst living conditions have live. It cannot be that in this country there is a 10-year difference in life expectancy between working neighbourhoods and working districts and settled neighbourhoods and districts. An example could be the difference between Sestao and Las Arenas. The parliamentarians of Ezker Anitza-Izquierda Unita defend a different model not only on how to divide the budget into its different headings, not only, therefore, because we have a different model of public expenditure, but also because we have a different model on public revenue, taxation. For us revenues and expenses cannot be separated. We stand for planned action, that is, to define what and how we want to spend, to define what revenue we need and, above all, what kind of taxation we propose. In the 2017 budget debate, the groups supporting the Government and the Government itself were fed up with recriminating that taxation and budgets were two different things that could not be mixed. Our coalition raised the need for a tax reform that narrowed the gap between capital income (i.e., what companies pay for their profits) and labour income (i.e. what workers pay). The PNV and the Basque Socialist Party not only refused to talk about it, they accused us of wanting to mix things that had nothing to do with it. You repeated it to the point of satiety. It was, in our view, an excuse to refuse to negotiate a tax reform at the service of the working majority of this country and not at the service of capital. It has not been a year, and we find that these budgets, those of 2018, are presented with the support of a tax reform agreed with the People's Party. Where is the argument now that we cannot talk about taxation in the debate on budgets? Where is the "now it doesn't touch, now it touches budgets and not taxation"? However, the tax reform agreed with the People's Party does not seek to narrow the gap between what capital and labour income pay. On the contrary, it seeks to reduce the benefits of companies, in order to guarantee higher rates of private benefit, while maintaining, of course, the high percentage paid by workers. For us, the hypocritical double measuring rod of the government and the parties that support it is evident: with the left one cannot talk about taxation, but with the right one can. If the Elkarrekin coalition We want to talk about taxation to negotiate budgets, they are mixing issues that have nothing to do with and cannot be negotiated; if instead it is the right of the People's Party that wants to negotiate a tax reform in exchange for its support for budgets, then we are facing a legitimate approach that we must address. The conclusion for our group is clear: with the People's Party you can negotiate taxation, because your models are not so different. The PNV-PSE government model is proving to be closer to the Popular Party model than to the model shared by Equo, Ezker Anitza-Izquierda Unita and Podemos. But those agreements with the People's Party have a glue that you know well: they are unpopular. That's why last year his advisers coined the term self-exclusion to define Elkarrekin Podemos' position in the negotiation. It had to be conveyed that agreements were being reached with the People's Party because we were putting on the table impossible issues, which forced the Government to look at the People's Party. One of those supposedly impossible issues was tax reform. We are now checking, this year, that if it was impossible, it was simply because the government does not want a reform that will help capital incomes and that can upset Confebask. In short, the PNV-PSE government, in our opinion, is comfortable negotiating with the People's Party, because it shares a model; what in Ezker Anitza-Izquierda Unita we have called the Basque troika. In the face of these budgets backed by a tax reform at the service of capital, we are going to defend an amendment to the totality designed for a tax reform at the service of the working social majority of the country, which is the one that dawns and lifts the country every morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-11.u4	Thank you, Mr. Hérnandez. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-11.u5	Good morning, President, chief of departments, members of the legislature. Today to talk about the 2018 budgets, first of all, I do not know whether to address the government, whether to address the lehendakari, or whether to do so to the People's Party or to Mr Alonso. So let me first address Mr Alonso, whom I am going to congratulate, because you have again achieved something truly incredible, which is that the PNV and the PSE approve your budgets, budgets that are tailored to your party and your interests. The truth is that you seem to have projected these budgets yourself from the beginning. Congratulations on what you have to do with it, but let me also offer my condolences to all those who believe that this country deserves something else, and that we are also curiously a majority. But, well, roughly I'm going to evaluate the budgets in three ways. The first is the expenditure limit indicated. This limit was approved in July in Madrid at the Congress of Deputies at the request of Mr Rajoy's Government; a ceiling of expenditure approved and supported by the PNV, which today limits the possibility of truly expansive budgets in Euskadi. The second, the revenues with which we count, revenues that are a direct consequence of fiscal policy, that I do not discover anything if I say that the fiscal policy that will be followed in the next few years, if we do not remedy it, which we are going to try, will be that of the People's Party and that of the reduction of taxes to the Patronal. And the third is the priorities of expenditure, which is ultimately what matters when a budget is drawn up: these budgets that are to be approved undoubtedly have as their main damage employment policies; they are accounts that are scarring in social policies such as GIR, and ramplons in policies of equality between women and men. But, even more, they also reward the private sector in education and health. Without a doubt, gentlemen of the People's Party, you can be proud, because today the budgets of the Government are not approved, but the budgets of the People's Party. Today it is the PNV and the PSE that support their group in imposing its austerity and anti-social policies in Euskadi. Today the less beloved party of Euskadi, the one with the least support, by far, in Basque citizenship, has more power than ever thanks to these weaves of the PNV and its crutch, the Socialist Party. Today in Euskadi he sends the PP, he sends his fiscal policies, his austerity policies, his hidden cuts, and he sends his priority for the abandonment of public services and the transfer of resources from all citizens to the private sector. A mostly progressive citizenship, such as the Basque one, which will see how the most regressive fiscal policies of the last decades are being made; which will see, at the same time as the strikes in health and education – and in public health and education – how more than EUR 10 million are being given to private schools and hospitals; that, at the moment when the sexist violence replenishes, these budgets remain without putting sufficient resources on the table; that, at the moment when our industry is going through a serious crisis where employment is more precarious than ever, this government is going on the subject. Now you are going to allow me to address you, Mr Urkullu, as head at the end of the government that is going to carry out these budgets, and although I know that you do not have a turn today, I would like to ask you whether you really believe that your pacts with the People's Party are good for Euskadi; whether you really believe that empowering a party that is corrupt, that is antisocial, that is ultra, as you see recently, that is centralist, can be justified in the name of stability; whether you really will be able to affirm and continue to affirm that today the People's Party and its policies are not stronger than ever in Euskadi thanks to its pacts. But, above all, do the parties that are in the government really believe, do the gentlemen of the PNV and the PSE, that with these budgets, in the name of stability, they can look at the faces of the thousands of workers who have lost their jobs in these months or who see it dangerous; or the people who charge the GIR and who see how cuts are maintained; or the parents who ask their children not to give classes in barracks or to make minimal repairs; or the teachers and health professionals who are on strike and protest calling for more investment in public education or in Osakidetza; or 50% of this society, and telling them that these budgets are committed to equality? I think the answer is no. With the agreement reached, you can code comfortably with the employer, Confebask, Opus schools and private health, but these budgets are not directed to the majority of this society. Because you know perfectly well that these accounts should be very different; that these accounts that you have already negotiated with the People's Party for a long time – and that is not why Mr Rementeria spoke in vain a long time ago in London, about what his fiscal proposal was – do not meet the needs of the very broad social sectors in Euskadi. Do you really think it's possible to say that these are the biggest budgets? Do you really believe that, Mr. Urkullu? Who are they for, who are the biggest budgets for? They are not, of course, for people who charge GIR, they are not for equality policies, they are not for employment policies, and they are not for public education. Who are good budgets for? Undoubtedly, private health is pampering joy, just like private schools (as I said, many of them from Opus). They're also happy with the employer with that guinea pig in the form of a tax cut. And, faced with this reality, you have all the unions against, all without exception. Against their tax rebates to the big employer, against educational policies, against social policies in the area of GIR. But did they really expect another result from these deals with the People's Party? Did you really expect applause? Did they really expect the majority of this country not to be against anti-social and regressive policies? It seems a lie, but today in Euskadi, with these budgets of the People's Party, they are going to allocate 13 million euros to subsidize private schools that segregate the student by sex. And it's going to go to that million dollar while you still don't invest enough in public education. With these budgets, investment in public education will be lower than in 2011, in the midst of a crisis. And if these accounts are to be approved they show that the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party do not care much about public education, and that, in addition, their policies of equality between women and men, therefore, the truth, is to make them look at it. According to its own data, the Government plans to allocate 0.11 of the budget to equality. 0.11%! Note that it was quite easy to increase it: it had only to have used the additional 10 million that the People's Party has taken from them for private health and for private schools. That was enough to increase this budget. And I know it bothers you that we remind you, I know it bothers you, but if you had a sincere commitment to equality, we wouldn't have to. Public education is not a priority, equality between women and men is not a priority, public health is not a priority, nor are social policies a priority. An illuminating fact: the Department of Employment and the Department of Labour are the least growing in their entire government (0.7 per cent and 0.4 per cent respectively). But do you know anything about these accounts that's even more serious, if that's all right? That these budgets do not contribute anything in terms of employment; that they follow the same lines: a lot of slogans, a lot of marketing, a lot of Basque industry, but no new bets, no significant increase, no reorientation of economic development policy and industrial policy, that make water. You say that you have recently supported a number of companies, and although you do not want to specify to us what kind of support, or what kind of intervention you have had, when we ask them to give us concrete companies, jobs maintained, interventions and concrete support actions, etc., the lump sum, as a student who has not done his duties. But what's more, it's that even the unions, all of them, all of them, are saying that their support is null or void in the different cases that we all know. Is it because your industrial policy is resulting in a misconception? Is your financial support not being used to meet the maintenance objectives of the industry and employment at risk? And that money of all and all comes from these budgets; from the previous budgets and those we are dealing with here. Tell us what happened to Cegasa, what happened to Fagor, what happened to Vicrila, what happened to CEL or Xey, what happened to the Alpha Group in Eibar, what happened to the subsidies and loans that come out of these budgets. Tell us, because with the one that is falling into the Basque industry, with dozens of companies in crisis and thousands of workers who see their jobs endangered, we are already beginning to see what their good management is, what it is to budget inadequately managed resources. But, above all, what is clear are two things. The first, that these are not the budgets that most Basques and Basques want, and that are not the only possible budgets. Not only is it desirable, it was possible to present other budgets, it was possible to point out other possibilities, just as it was possible to have another spending ceiling, with another income floor. Other priorities could be identified. Today in Euskadi it was possible to agree a tax reform with the set of progressive forces and social actors; a tax reform not only more just and progressive, but above all it would allow us, without affecting economic recovery, to have more resources to maintain and improve our public services. And, honestly, we didn't throw out the towel. This very week in this House an alternative fiscal agenda will be proposed, a fiscal agenda designed to improve incomes, to encourage the economy and employment and to make Basque a less unequal society. This week we will sincerely try to keep the PP's tax rebate going. Let us try with honesty, offering a basis that can be accepted by all political forces, at least by which they have a minimum of social meaning. And these bases are none other than those of convergence with Europe in taxation, in fiscal pressure. It is nothing revolutionary in itself, although, given the drift in which the Basque Nationalist Party and the PSE have embarked, with the PP at the head of the helm of the ship, we fear the worst. And it is you, gentlemen of the PSE, who must be portrayed. We really want them to join and support this alternative fiscal agenda; that the progressive majority of this Parliament should be put to work not for the sake of any acronym of any party, but for the benefit of Basque citizens, who have voted for us and who have voted for electoral programmes. And other alternatives are also possible, and during these months we have made them clear to you. First and highest priority, employment. We have proposed a number of viable measures: a fund to take part in companies in crisis, an employment plan with sufficient resources to be effective, and shock plans in the regions most affected by the crisis. I would also like to dwell on this, because I think it is key. It is necessary for this Government to take seriously, very seriously, the differences that are widening between some areas of the territory. Right now there is a two-speed Euskadi in many ways, and an increasingly evident one is that of those areas such as Enkarterri, Margen Izquierda, mining area, the Aiara Valley, Oarsoaldea or Bajo Deba, which, far from emerging from this crisis, are being particularly punished by the industrial crisis. Much of the employment that is being lost or at risk by industrial enterprises that are closing or going through difficulties is rooted in these areas. These are regions with unemployment rates that are well above average. These are regions and functional areas in which economic activity is affected, and in which in addition many of these firms in crisis were those that supported much of the economic fabric. They are areas, such as the Left Margen, with a highly dependent auxiliary industry of companies such as La Naval. And these are regions especially abandoned by the institutions (or the promised investments do not arrive, or these are absolutely ineffective). It is time to attend to this bloody and unjust situation that is taking place in Euskadi, and that no more time should be spent in intervening. I have talked about a two-speed Euskadi, but in reality you can also talk about three or four-speed Euskadi, as much as difficulties have thousands of people and families in Euskadi. Yeah, there's one Euskadi that's starting to recover, but there's another one that doesn't. There is another, which is not very small, which is still unemployed, which is still in precarious jobs, or which depends on increasingly stigmatised and criminalised social benefits. And there is another large area of policy prioritization for this government that could have been seen in these accounts, but it has not been. Today the GIR cut is maintained, it is maintained seven years later. It is maintained even though you speak of the greatest budgets in history. It is maintained because you have no political will to reverse those social cuts, because you are very comfortable with them. Just as public education can be improved, a public education that sees how this Government's investment in gross domestic product continues to collapse years after year. It sees how it does not invest in new centers, enlargements or permanent improvements. That sees how in the Euskadi 4.0, which so much likes this government, is taught in barracks. And the same goes for public health. Not only is it desirable, it was possible to present other budgets and other priorities. You had been negotiating these agreements for a long time, despite the toad that Mr Azpiazu and Mrs Mendia had to swallow by negotiating the tax rebate for Confebask. Mr. Rementeria did not speak in vain in London – as I said before – he knew very well what he was saying and why he was saying it, and this was in May. But you know what's most curious? That you are hostages of your own strategy, hostages of the evil covenants, hostages of having tied your feet and hands, as a party and as a government, to the antisocial and regressive policies of a corrupt and centralist party such as the People's Party. In the same way that the PSE is dragged, by its pacts with you, to agree with whom in principle is its nemesis, with that right to which for the most varied reasons it always embraces. But he paints reasons that are never left-wing, that are never progressing, and that are never for the well-being of the citizenry. It is always reasons of state or institutional stability that end up swallowing frogs like tax cuts or anti-social and regressive budgets, or directly contrary to their electoral agenda. But it's all for keeping in the boat of governments where you have no influence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-11.u6	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. On the other hand, on the Socialists' side... ? Mrs. Corcuer has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-11.u7	Yes, good morning. Thank you, President. The Socialist Group will vote against the amendment by Elkarrekin We can because you do not believe in the promised land you have been talking about, because that promised land you have been talking about, Mr Martínez, is not real. And the Socialist Group is going to vote for sufficient resources to guarantee public services, to extend social rights, to encourage stable, quality and innovative employment-generating economic activity. And we will vote yes to agreements between different. We are going to vote for the political and institutional stability that the citizens entrusted to us a year ago that we managed. That is why we are going to oppose the maximalist proposals, which they fear are tainted with consensus with others, which they are looking at the needs of a party rather than the needs of the citizenry, which they are looking at tomorrow's headline rather than thinking about the future that we will leave behind after this legislature. After analyzing your amendment as a whole, my first thought was to think that you had missed some page of this legislature, and hence your analysis and the qualification of being a continuous project of the Budgets 2017. Because you have not taken into account, as it turns out, that the first budgets, those of nine months ago, were based on a government agreement signed between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party, on a government programme and on a framework programme for employment and economic recovery. And this stability in the political actions that the 2017 Budget granted should be extended in this new project, with improvements, no doubt, but not with radical transformations that did not make the objectives that we had already agreed on in 2017 recognizable. And I have not just seen the coherence of its global approach, when in Elkarrekin We have not made a single amendment to the whole, nor to the 2017-2020 Industrialization Plan, nor to the 2017-2020 Entrepreneurship Plan, nor to the Health Plan, nor to the Addiction Plan, nor to any of the plans we have dealt with in this Parliament over the course of this year that are outlining the sectoral policy of this government. You, ladies and gentlemen of Elkarrekin, say that the budgets respond to the concerns of the government but not to the challenges facing Basque society. And that, that is doing demagogy and populism without any basis. Because this government does have a commitment, this government does have a pact with concrete actions aimed at combating job insecurity, helping businesses in crisis, helping businesses that are not in crisis, mitigating economic and social inequality, promoting public services, expanding and extending rights and also combating macho violence. Because the socialists influence the public policy of Euskadi, even if you don't like it. In the last legislature we did it from the opposition, in this one being in the government. You are in your legitimate right to remain, as you have done, in the comfort of your seats, ladies and gentlemen of Elkarrekin Podemos. And we regret your position, because tens of thousands of Basques and Basques thought that you could help add strength to guide the decisions of our institutions towards what really interests progressive citizenship, and those people today, once again, see how in every important moment that this legislature has had, in its short course, you once again give up doing politics. And it is the Basque Socialists who, with our presence in the various governments, will ensure the priority of the Basque social agenda. And the citizen's agenda is the one reflected in these accounts that, despite you, will come forward. In this budget project for 2018 is the agenda of more than 60,000 families who can't get out of the bache, and who need income guarantee income. In this project is the bet to offer you opportunities to build a life without dependence on solidarity, avoiding the chronification of your situation, but you do not want to see it. There's the bet on fighting labor fraud, but you don't want to see it. The project provides an opportunity for 1,000 more families to have a roof to live under, thanks to the recognition of the subjective right to housing, and its extension to other groups. In these budgets there is an opportunity for nearly 2,000 families not to cut off electricity or gas because they cannot afford it. But you don't want to see him. In the accounts there is a new bet to support companies to generate jobs, and to ensure that this job is stable and of quality: more than 15,500 full-time jobs, cutting off one of our ballasts, our large ballasts, temporality and precariousness. There is also a commitment to strengthen the workforce of labour inspectors to fight this fraud. There is also a commitment to improve prevention and safety plans at work. There is the bet of those who believe in innovation as the driving force behind the technological transformation we are experiencing. And that is why we have increased that share even above the 5% we have already committed by the Socialists in the last parliamentary term. The budgets we're going to get through without Elkarrekin We can also mean an open door, an opportunity for those who are preparing to get a job in public administrations. An open door and an opportunity for 13,500 people to stabilize their jobs, and even to have access to the public service for the first time. An opportunity for that generational relief that you speak of in your amendment to the whole, and that so much is lacking in our health, in our education, or in Ertzaintza. And a door for officials to follow the path of gradual recovery from their purchasing level. All that is in these accounts, all that is in these budgets for 2018. And in Elkarrekin We could have done another reading of the budgets, and of the political situation as well, but it is difficult to explain that three weeks ago we were put on the table to modify the fate of 120 million euros, and that we told them that we could talk about it, and that today they strongly defend the return of budgets that simulated (that simulated) they wanted to agree. Because yes, you justify it in defending more employment, more support for disadvantaged areas, more equality, more investment in educational institutions, and we, the Basque Socialists and the Basque Government, told them that we agreed. But there they stayed, only there, deciding not to negotiate, on the banner, not negotiating. You can wear this debate, ladies and gentlemen of the Elkarrekin We can, as you please or like, but an amendment to the whole implies, or should assume, in political practice something more than a pose or a pose. You should assume that you have an alternative proposal, and that of you is simply not and is not expected. The initial EUR 120 million of the negotiations (not the 250 of which are now mentioned in their partial amendments, because they add up on one side, remain on the other...) ultimately account for 1% of the total budget. 1% can never be an alternative or an alternative model, and it's not a weighty argument to try to look like there's another economic model or another country model that's what you're defending. It's no reason. And you are also giving us additional information, because for the budgets in force, these of 2017, you proposed in March, there in March, to change 1.6 billion euros, twelve times more than in your current amendment to the whole. And by doing so, roughly, it turns out that Elkarrekin We can understand that the needs of Basque citizenship, only in this first year of government in which we Socialists participate, these needs have been reduced by 83 %, taking into account their amendments. And recognize it; it is your data, not my invention, it is recorded through the amendments and in your amendment as a whole. And in March they justified the amendment to the whole they presented to the budgets for 2017 in exchange for 14% of the budget project. During the course of its proceedings, 467 amendments were passed to defend only fourteen partial amendments (0.1 % of the total), and they supported most of the amendments proposed by the People's Party in the Committee on Finance and Budgets. First bath of budgetary reality that had to be given. Of course, they also started from a rather broken-down income calculation. A month ago they tried to dazzle us with a tax proposal that provided us with an additional 1.250 million euros, so from a pen they have put it again now, and they add another 500 million euros a year for the action of the fight against tax fraud they propose. And they did not bring that particular proposal to any debate in this Parliament or contrast it with anyone in this House, but it did serve them for something: to give a press conference, to have one more headline. Today they ask for a full monograph and we will have it, but others, while you were doing those traps, others we were doing two things: analyzing the figures of the collection and of the taxes one by one, analyzing their evolution, that of each tax in each section since we did the tax reform of 2013; and we also try to reach agreement on the proposals. Because this of agreeing, this that seems just as rare to some, is a step that some are forgotten, but that is absolutely necessary when you need majorities, and very healthy when you don't need them. And in the end we have managed to reach an effective agreement for Basque citizenship, which allows us to guarantee a sufficient amount of resources to shield public services, which also allows us to extend social rights, and also to make economic progress in Euskadi viable so that there will be more and better employment, without taking rabbits out of the chistera, without making political illusions, with realism and being practical and possible, something that you do not seem to know or do not understand. The Basque Socialists, when we ask for confidence in the citizenry, are committed to working out agreements with anyone who would like to share our goals. That is what we do every day in this House, what we do in every plenary and in every committee, what we do with all the groups repeatedly, also with Elkarrekin Podemos. And now with this budget, what we are doing is translating those House agreements into figures, into items, into concrete expenditure. And we are realistic and consistent with that reality, because we already have a stretch of legislature that we have traveled to give us all – and also a bath of reality – that what we say today, on 11 December 2017, is exactly the same, word for word, what we said on 23 November 2016 in the first full investiture, and what we also manifested in the full general policy in September. The Basque Socialists do want you to contribute, the Socialists do want the citizenship they represent to be reflected in these budgets for 2018 and also in their policies. But if you renounce politics, renounce negotiation, the socialists will not do their job and we will not do it for Elkarrekin Podemos. We are not in this Parliament or in the Government or in any institution to prepare any election campaign, because everything has its time, and this is the time to be to solve the problems of everyone, think as you think. Because, even if you despise or despise the work of those who have also been in the opposition, socialists and socialists know the value of sitting here and beating copper to change and improve people's lives and solve their problems. And it has cost us a lot, a lot, to recover a climate of tranquillity in which citizens feel recognized and not excluded, and we are not going to throw away that effort to go to no circle tomorrow to present as political action a few newspaper headlines. That is why the Socialists are at something else. It is not that the Government needs numerically to agree, that it too; it is that the country is demanding great agreements, and to no one, absolutely no one, the Basques and Basques granted us fifteen months ago the possibility that our ideas, however good they seemed to us, would be those that came forward without the help of others. And when alternatives arise, they have to be real and they have to be possible. And that is why, for these reasons, we are going to vote against your amendment as a whole. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-11.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. The representative of the eubertarian party, Mrs. Gorospe, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-11.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. The President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. I'll start by talking about that techo de gasto you talk about over and over. If you read theact or transscription of the controversy that was made in Congress in Madrid, one thing the Minister said is clear, at least, what you're talking about in that discussion. The Congress in today's session, and eventually the Senate in tomorrow's session, will know the government's proposal on the figure publicly disseminated as a spending ceiling and will discuss it, although I have to insist that what is going to be voted on are deficit and debt targets and not the spending limit and the spending ceiling, which is the sole responsibility of the government. Setting the limit, the spending ceiling, is the sole responsibility of the Government. Mr. Martínnez, which of the schools of Eukadin is more worked? In Opus or industries? What's with the Basques? What reality are you trying to appear here? Which Basques do you live? Is that honestly the analysis of the real situation? Do we or do we not think it's good for the Basque Party to make peace? It is good to make a treaty for the Basques, and we have always said that no one in this country is superfluous, all the companions are necessary, and we shall be able to build them all. He who is ready for it and has a clear attitude. You say three things, and I'll mention them now. En la RGI se abandondo la protecion social, en el ámbito de la salud se abandondo el secor pliblico... I'll tell you, there are other places where hospitals were shut up, here in Eusked, public hospitals opened up. In other places, while the beds were shut, the beds spread here in the Euskakid, in the public hospitals. And you've mentioned Políticas de guildurdas raplonas. Que hay que hacéruslo mir. Let's get this way. In several instances which have been made in this legislature, and even in your correctities, we believe that the central axis has been principally the centre of the circle of equality. So that's what we're going to do, if you think it's all right. We're gonna start violence against women. "It's not an effort." I'll give you some clear examples of various departments. Work and Justice: Zabalduko da... Victim care service, is going to offer a specific as is the legal-therapeutic accompaniment service in the judicial field for women victims of gender-based violence, is going to increase the departure destined to free legal assistance, is going to inaugurate this same month a point of meeting family... The planned OPEs will consolidate the staffing for the violence against women courts. A department of society. SAVEVI, service to women who receive violence in 24 hours, will raise up 27%. Security Department. A compact of the State of Madrid has been made against the force of genera. The chief physician said: "The representatives of the Department and the Borders were present against the force of the Eukadian genus which is made by policy. And they're pioneers, and they'll be considered as models in other places, and other collective cops will take them as models. To put a few examples: What is done in many other programmes (relently, look, manudo, dictionary, euscay, and feminism, which is done in eucalyptus). For fun, equality plan is a strategic, it's one of the main axes. And the budget isn't just the gift. It's not just the results, it's the one that shows up in all the departments. And ye say: The tax Department uses a highly retinator, P18G, to examine the budgets of all departments from the point of view of the genus. And that's where you get 0.11. You have to make him look at it. What needs to be done is to look, indeed. And I'm going to give you some examples, of course, because we're going to use what's coming from that tool, and then what's really going to happen is that all policies are impregnated from a gender perspective. Let us see, for example, that in employment and social policies, by setting an example, we have to, where it puts what it is intended, see that a great effort is indeed being made, but the programme for granting economic aid for the continuation of the recruitment of technical staff in immigration is not included, for example. But in his call he says: "Incorporation of the gender perspective into the formal aspects of the content of the evaluation and non-sexist use of language. They must take into account all the specific needs of women." If we go to the grant call to boost the youth equipment network at the local level we will see that according to the P18G tool the corresponding budget is not included, but if we go to its call we will see that the integration of the gender perspective is also in the project. If we go to Health, we see, if you analyze, that some specific games are not included either. It has 382,000, but for example it does not include community-based addiction prevention, which states: "Gender mainstreaming shall be taken into account in the award criteria, including a prevention programme for additions when different situations, conditions and needs of women and men are taken into account in their design, implementation and evaluation". If we go to the Department of Culture, which does not appear these programs, we will see that in the program of organizing festivals of the different cultural areas one of the sections that are taken into account is the percentage of women in the jurors. If we go to the call for graphic creation, comics, graphic novels, we see that it is also valued in ten points works of illustrators. If we go to the Department of Economic Development and Infrastructure we also see that in the call for grants to the pure-bred breeding associations of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi one of the criteria is the presence of women in the governing bodies of the association, which is valued at fifteen points. If we're going to Education, exactly the same. This is looking, this is doing an analysis beyond the data we can have. Impregnating all policies, impregnating all policies, this is doing equality policy. And that's what you haven't looked at, because you've stayed with what the tool, offering a lot, offers. We are moving forward, but we need to look at it more carefully. We'll get into the industrial zone. Well, you mention in the industrial area that nothing is done in this area. Well, for example, the South has the principal public investment in the population and from the Basque institutions and from the European institutions. What do you do to create 70,000 jobs? Well, here in the legislature, the planet of Industries is just approved and the attempt will be made to promote industry in this region, because we want it to be the engine of our economy, and it's because it's a purpose for you to reach 25 percent of the raw internal product of this law. Internation, formation, strangulation, research, innovation, development, small and average companies... You'll know him well, because he's been introduced here. What's to be done to help people with difficulties? What strategy is that? On November 13th, in the event, the chief physician presented all the measures; go and read, to present all the details. You said investments in the provinces. In every country there are investments. And then here, in this parliament, we've got a crew that's working to make a proposal, and it's just over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and say that he's ready to push all the initiatives that come out of it. Last week a plan was presented for the emiritae, which has been cultivated in the several different institutions to support this country. And so it is in the East. Several enterprises have been made to encourage the resurrection of the economy of this region by means of the Force Program. And he's worked together with the Passaian port to arrange the area of La Herrra. And many other initiatives have been pushed. I think it's frivolous to say that we don't make any effort in all this, to say that all the institutions are abandoned. You ought to consider it, but what you have to do is to examine and examine it, not to speak lightly, to see what you have done. About social production. You said he was completely abandoned. Well, let's check the budget process between 1990 and 2018, and you'll see that in 1990s 20 million was conducting the budget for social armor, and 20 million in the budget over $10 million. That's 500 million more to fight for the welfare defense! But we'll read what is the rating of the members of the network in the anti-PAPNity Networks on our net, so that you can make such a rating. This isn't like you think this is La Descretra, is it? I suppose not. It was in November that your teams asked for this legislature. "Euskadi maintains lower rates than the state and European average in the main indicators of poverty, exclusion and inequality due to the launch more than twenty-five years ago of the Poverty Reduction Plan, the origin of the current income guarantee system and for social inclusion". Jarraitzen zuten... "The different indicators that measure inequality place Euskadi as one of the least unequal societies in the European context." Jarraitzen zuten... "The effort that the Basque Country is making in the system must be recognized. To give some examples, and taking the data from the Ministry's 2015 Minimum Income Report, in the Basque Country in 2015 the expenditure is 35.92 % of the total minimum income, the annual expenditure per holder of the Basque Country is 6.075. And it should also be noted that in almost all systems (health, education, social services) the Basque Country is the autonomous community that spends the most per capita, or is among those that spend the most. In other words, there is no exception in the case of income security income." Eta hori doesn't say the right. Esan said nork is a couple of zuok ona ekarrita. But we'll continue, because you've mentioned we've abandoned our health system. Look, it's about 13%.3% of the increase that anyone's been pharmaceutical and memberised for the past five years. Aipatzen izan dituzu desberdintasunak eta zaen ardura de la deberdintasunen aurka borrokatzea. Ba osasun-systeman behin eta berriro aipatzen da zer den guera duguna: quality and universal health care, supporting R & D & i in bioscience-health. Eta hirugarren zutabe bat, bear garrantzitsua dena: impact on inequalities for reasons, one, socio-economic; two, gender, and three, functional diversity. Baina arlo honetan (minute bat daukat), zuen bozeramailearen berbekin amaituko dut. Eta, said Uria in commission: "What a dough you have in your hands, counselor!". That was his expression: "What a dough you have in your hands, counselor! We are going to place ourselves, among what I know, at the highest per capita level of the state in the next evaluations, and we are getting closer to what we were talking about increasing 1% of our GDP growth, approaching the average of the European Union to Fifteen." "What a satisfaction," fellow Uria ended. You understand that we vote against your full-correction, don't you? Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-11.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. To answer, the representative of the Podemos, Mr Martínnez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-11.u11	Well, where do I start? First, to clear up one thing. When we were talking about the consumers, or about the money they've given us, we're talking about the budgets, not the budgets, but the agreement, and where the Party's dealings with the money and the school they were working on. But in the end it's a matter of course, even if we quarrel with these facts, it's in public education at this moment in barracks, in barracks, in barracks, there are still schools! And that's why we criticize him. Because it's not in public education yet, we think it's enough. But you've entered into an examination of equality, and I think there's a great deal to discuss. You're starting to talk about the Security Department and how precursors are on principle of equality. Well, look here, I'll tell you something. The Arkaut Academy has not yet an administrative system which is legally necessary. 10 years ago, it is necessary that this unit should be operational, and Arkaut hasn't yet started, or that the budget should be operational for the next year. 10 years and later. We spent two weeks ago discussing this legislature to deal with the grudges that the border wasn't prepared for, as your chief physician told us, that the edge wasn't ready to resist the bleeding. And these are pretorical policies? Are those the precursor policies? That the Academy isn't keeping the law? Or that in the sight of hatreds one cannot act well? But not just that. You've talked about this instrument, too, about what's going on in order to analyse it, what's a generic impact, through the Ogsun Department. There have been departments (for instance, the Security Department) who have not filled these formulas, and we do not know what the impact is. What's the commitment to the budgets of this government to see if there's no supply of tools to find out. How do we know the real facts? Examine. Yes, we've checked it out, but one thing: you say it's transbertal in your own exams in the principle of equality. It has to be a transverse positive impact of 100% on budgets and not on specific things, subconsciouss or convents... And besides, as you say, it's put in some places "se tená cuenta." "Se tenrá en cuenta" no highza la realción. "Se tenrá en cuenta" no es un compromiso colaro ante la aperlicicaón de pollicas de guild este de convocatorias." And still there's more effort to make. And it's not just that. We have insisted on the performances of many departments in the last years of equality, and we have not yet received complete answers. Hence it is still clear what is the commitment to the government to equality and to its application. But if we go in later on... The latest date, taken in your data, or received data into this series, has been established 22 million a year, and this year 21 million; that is to say, one million less. But if we get in with the industry... You've talked about the plan that's actually started in the embassy. What happened there? What did the mayor of Zalla say the other day? What sort of agreement is there to set this plan in motion with the institutions there? And what measures are taken? Are the measures taken there long enough? Is that enough? Everybody happy? Now, the one who's having a serious crisis about the CEL corporation, the City Hall of Zalla knows exactly what's going on... And the critics are on that plan, the critics. It's not just that. If we go into your industrial police and take your data and your suggestions, you've told us that you want to create 45,000 jobs until 2020, but before the crisis, there's 70,000 more jobs. You want 25 percent of the industry in the raw internal product, but it was 29% before the crisis. Is that the project we want to stay at 25%? What, for service's sake? Or do we want to be 29% of the industry in our raw internal produces? And what happens in the end? If there's not a strong investment, unless there's not some budgets that make investments at work, or make investments in economic development, they won't be fulfilling these goals, they won't have jobs of quality, and we'll never have our industry back on 29%, never with investments like that. Beast adibide bat jarriko said. Kasu Honetan, SPRI... It has happened that his Government in the last days organized by SPRI set an example for the management of companies such as Siemens-Gamesa. And what happened next? That this company announces an ERE of which once again, once again, and for example, Mrs Tapia is the last to know what happens to this ERE. They say they want to reduce the high temporaryity of contracts and unwanted partiality, the youth unemployment that is high, that of older people, the chronification of long-term unemployment... All right. But in the strategic employment documents there is no mention, no criticism, no position against the labour regulations that affect employment policies. In the areas of management, where his Government was competent, there was no alternative to labour reforms which had so precariously affected working conditions. Mrs Corcuera, tell me what these budgets would change if the Socialist Party were not in the government, because I tell you that absolutely nothing. And I also make a more technical clarification: plans cannot be amended in their entirety. And we are the group that has tabled the most partial amendments to the plans that have been presented here, the one that has made the most changes to those plans that cannot be amended in full. And I ask you: Do you believe that 300 million, that almost 300 million in partial amendments are turkey mucus? Do you think you can say, can you pose to the families of Enkarterri, to the families of Meatzaldea, to the families of Oarsoaldea, that the investments we propose in the partial amendments are nothing, that do not change anything, that do not change anything? Do you think they're priceless, that they wouldn't change the lives of a lot of people that kind of partial amendments? Does that disregard make the proposals we make? Of course... It is not our responsibility to present alternative budgets. It is precisely our responsibility to point out the shortcomings of these budgets. And as we have done and as it hurts them, it is precisely when, instead of attacking the proposals, they intend to attack us, which is why he has also called us demagogues; he likes to call us demagogues and populists and that kind of qualifications that in reality do not have a clear definition. But, look, if there's anything much worse than demagogy, and more harmful to Euskadi than demagogy, it's cynicism. The cynicism of saying, for example, that these are the greatest budgets of history; the cynicism of saying that it is a priority, for the government in which you are, employment or equality between women and men, or the cynicism of seeing you defend yourselves with a layer and sword agreements with the People's Party. Agreements, for example, or tax reforms before which a month ago they categorically said that they were not going to lower corporate tax. That's cynicism, and that hurts us. But, well, as I have started my speech by congratulating the People's Party and Mr Alonso for having managed, with so few seats in this Parliament, to make budgetary and fiscal policy conditional, I must, of course, also express my condolences to that social majority, as I said before, that it has to bear these budgets. And it is clear that today in the speeches heard we see, the agreement of the People's Party is reflected with the support of the PNV and the PSE. Today, thanks to the pacts we have seen in Euskadi, there is a stronger PP than ever, which puts its spending or deficit ceiling (it is actually the same), its rebates to the employer, its austerity and antisocial policies. The effect... But, well, as I said, as I congratulate the People's Party, I extend my condolences to most Basques and Basques who do not want this kind of policy in Euskadi. And they will also allow me to insist that this situation is not inevitable, that there is a progressive majority in this House, and that this very week we will put it to the test around the motion that we are going to put forward for an alternative fiscal agenda. We will not fail in our efforts, gentlemen of the PNV and the PP, to derail this train of damaged goods and bad policies that are being imported into Basque society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-11.u12	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-11.u13	Yes, thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of Elkarrekin We can, look, I'm telling you a story that I don't know if it'll sound like you. For many years amendments to all the budgets were voted on in this House, and that was what was voted on, but a decade ago the Rules of Procedure were changed so that we could vote not on an amendment of each one, of each political group, but on the will of a party or a majority to request the return of some budgets. Although alternatives to the budget can also be presented, which is what you have not done: you have tabled an amendment to the whole, of return, but no alternative, never an alternative proposal. And since then – yes, I already know it bothers you, but respect a little –..., since then there has only been one occasion when a government had to keep the project in the drawer. It was four and a half years ago. You were not, but we were the Basque Socialists, and we took a step forward and presented a real alternative, with rated numbers, about income. We then gave up introducing partial amendments, and we managed to move from a project with cuts of EUR 1.5 billion to a project that had a prior guarantee of increasing income and that would translate into new social policies of EUR 1.7 billion. So you have to do things, not like you do. And now there is no alternative to this project that has presented Elkarrekin Podemos. And there isn't because the project consolidates that public spending and also increases it in health, education, income-guarantee income, housing, employment, industrial plans and innovation, and you have no alternative to that, which is what we are debating here today. They demand more money for programmes, which does not mean a change in the budget model or an alternative budget, nor does it mean any change in the economic, political, or social model in the Basque Country. And besides having no alternative, they have another problem, and it's that they don't add up. And they don't add up and they don't want to add up. They do not add up because they are afraid of the political and country agreement, a fear they have been demonstrating over these fifteen months. That is why the Socialists have committed themselves to ensuring public services and the extension of social rights, but also to ensuring the framework of political stability that has facilitated our participation in governments. If other parties scorn and squander the possibility of influencing budgets and governments, the Basque Socialists will not give up on our efforts to seek participation and political consensus on the important issues that we have in this Parliament, such as income-guarantee reforms, Lanbide reform, disadvantaged zone plans, the transparency law, the law of the public sector... And let's not despair, let them know. Since you left, Mr. Martínez, there have been issues in this rostrum such as the fact that only you are concerned about the most disadvantaged areas... And why have they taken so long and called for the extension of the introduction of amendments to the present paper? If it is so urgent, it will have stopped extending the deadline for amendments! Because we're all worried, all of us, and we've been waiting for you, and we're still waiting for that paper to come to an end. You have a headline problem when you say you want convergence with Europe in tax matters. So are we! We too, but do not forget that corporate tax and the nominal rate in Europe is what it is, and they are also willing to lower it. And, as they all have graphs, I have brought one, and it is that of the tax reform that we have agreed and how the negative tax bases change, the limits of general deductions, the limit of deduction of R+D+i, the nominal rates, the effective rates... All of that is put here. And this is the reform that the Socialists have agreed, because it was possible, feasible, and you have moved away from that negotiation. They walked away, they left, and they didn't want to. They are in their legitimate right, but then do not protest because others come to agree. Don't protest! You were in your rightful right, that's the option you got. Besides, you said, we're hostages. Hostages of nothing, Mr. Martinez. Here the only hostage there is you, you and your circumstances, for not having negotiated. You are the only one; the others are free of dust and straw, as is often said, to enter into a negotiation. [[Barres]] Yeah, yeah, laugh whatever you want, it must be really funny. That is why they will never reach agreements, nor will they be influential for this country. They haven't made it possible. And I'm sorry. You've given it to yourself, Mr. Martinez, for making dramas, for bringing tragedy, for giving us sympathy... And the great tragedy is that you are not able to see the scope of what an agreement should mean for a country at a time when everyone's impulse is needed to move forward. The impetus of all, to achieve that which you propose in your amendment as a whole. But, as I told you at the beginning, we do not despair, and from respect for your internal process – that respect that you do not usually have with us – we sincerely tell you that there are three years left, that it is still going on, and when you pass this December 15th and decide what your project is and who is going to lead it, we hope that you will decide to add forces to offer realistic and appropriate answers in practice to the problems that the Basque citizen really has, and not to the political illusions, to which you are very accustomed. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-11.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Mrs. Gorospe, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-11.u15	For, continuing with the analysis of the whole amendment, which is what is being debated today, as well as with a joint view of the partial amendments which you have also tabled, the conclusion we have to draw, which we draw, is that the amendments which you have tabled, the partial ones, do not change the orientation of public policies and public services which seek to finance the budgets which the Basque Government has submitted to us. They don't change orientation at all. They have a clearly incremental nature; that is, what they do is expand some of the items that are collected, and in some cases eliminate some with a clear total demagogic character, with reductions in salaries at office, because that remains, therefore, I suppose very well within the... Yes, yes, it looks very good inside that political posture that you like to do so much. Because it turns out that here not long ago you have been defending a collective that said it was among the few workers' collectives that had decent living conditions, and the salaries you are raising would in some cases be 12,000 euros lower than those of those workers' collectives that had decent living conditions. So, I don't understand why in some collectives you have a level of demand and in others you don't. Therefore, that is political posture. But politics is more than strictly political hippytone. It's a lot more. Politics and budgets are about commitment and decision-making, and making budgets is about setting priorities in a context of limited resources, scarce resources and limited resources, and saying what is put and what is not put. And you have missed an opportunity, you have missed a golden opportunity, because with global credit, in the negotiation process, the same as the People's Party has done... It has entered into the negotiation, decided that with the capacity to increase, and not to modify, but to underline certain public policies that the Basque Government has in progress, they have said "We want these policies to be subordinated in health, these in territorial balance, these in entrepreneurship and these in employment". And you could have done it. Do you know what push you could have given him, if it's so important to you, beyond posture, equality, saying "Ten million of ours to enhance equality policies"? Do you know what push you would have given him, what push you would have given him, if you had said "From our ability to underline and strengthen a policy, 10 million for investments in public schools"? Do you know what push you would have given to cooperation, social emergency aid... Is that what you're talking about? In the partial amendments they put an additional million in social emergency aid. They could have put it on! In cooperation, four and a half million more. They could have included it! They'd get there for all that. And you have given up all that for cowardice, for posture, for not saying "I wet myself", for not paying a political invoice (supposed) on the street. We all go to the streets when we come to agreements, with one another and with other governments. We would all like to follow our own policies more, without reaching agreements with anyone. But that is to commit, and that is to commit to the public policies that one defends, and to be consistent and consistent to the end. And to say, "If I really believe that this Government has to underline this, in that margin that I have to enhance certain policies, I will do so. I will be responsible (political responsibility), I will be coherent (coherent in politics), and I will strengthen." "I'm not afraid of that," said he, "but I'm not so sure that I'm not so sure of it. It has been in your hands to encourage the policy of equality in this budget, to encourage more than the target, to encourage financial aids to people who are in a state of emergency, to encourage cooperative, to invest in public and subordinate schools, and you refused to invest them. You refused! You have given up political practice and have a positive impact on improving the quality of life of Basques and Basques by political discourse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-11.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Next, the Representative of the EH Collect Group has the word to defend their full correction. Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-11.u17	Mrs. President, members of the legislature, members of the government, Mr. Urkullu. Good morning! President Urkullu is in exile in Brussels. Josu Erkorek in Madrid cells. Arzie Tapia, Esefanía Beltán de Heria, Cristina Uriarte, and several other departments have acquired a temporary freedom. Everyone had to face the chase: The fines, the jails, the extraordinary demands... All for keeping your promise to the people. The car is cancelled. The people are governed by decrees from Spain, and this is called "155." But the President Urkullus (it must be said that they do not allow us on the Euskal radio television), but we call it President Ukullu), looks at the international community, and, as we look at the international community, the countries where historically friends have been friends of the Basques. And Catalonia, who believes that Katalunia will not fail us, because she has opposed the Spanish oppression. But not this time! They're very sorry this time, but they're in other business with the Socialist Party, the Party, the Party Popular Party, and they're feeling very much... Well, it's a shame they appreciate us very much, but they can't right now. And surprise and anger for us, sorrow... And some of the commonplace remarks they make at such times, don't they? "These members..." "In the end," "la pe es la pea..." one hears it over and over again. "We wouldn't do that. Our word, our word in the Basque... The word is sacred to the Basques. But from this evil dream we wake up and realize that in reality the evil dream continues in Catalonia, and unfortunately that you, Mr. Urkullu and Ortuzar, are in the government with PP and PSOE; that you, Mr. Urkulullu and Ortuzar, have given stability to the government of the PP of Madrid; that you govern here with PSOE, and that you have given the place which the people refused here to the Party in the policy of euchar. So you can also ask "la pea es la pela." Look, if you want it can be used or we can use the duck test, and it's that if you see a bird walking like a duck, nothing like a duck, it has a beak like that of the ducks, even when it does, you can reasonably come to the conclusion that you are actually before a duck. So here's a little bit the same thing: if you see budgets that look like those of 155, if those budgets put forward a country project that coincides with those of 155, if they keep cuts that applaud those of 155, and also carry the signature of some of 155, don't doubt it, are the budgets of 155. And it will not be Euskal Herria Bildu who supports these budgets. Because rejecting 155 is solidarity with Catalonia, but it is also a defense of our own self-government, and it is also a defense of quality of life and public services. Because dependence not only prevents us from developing as a people, but it harms our economy, and makes us back and approach the failed Spanish model, rather than putting us in the direction of the most advanced countries. We must not forget how harmful, socially and economically, the measures imposed by Spain result: expenditure rule, deficit limit, replacement rate, labour reform, part of the tax reform, etc. But these budgets, if they're the result of a bad budget, are also the source of bad future budgets, because of the attorney-general's contract granted to corporations. The real budget earmarked for services to citizens, that is, the resources that remain after deducting from the budget that earmarked for the payment of the debt and for the high speed train, is smaller today than in 2009: in 2018 will be allocated 9,978 million, compared to 10,171 of 2009. If we discount inflation, the budget is almost 15% lower than in 2009. And this is the reality, in the face of the propaganda of the historical record budget and recovery. And in front of this reality, the logical is to multiply voices that demand progressive and extensive reform reform. The administration requires enough resources to develop public services and promote economic development. And it's clear that the pressure on the most advanced nations is much bigger than ours, but this fun turned its back to that fact, and he just looked right and tapped his right hand to pay less to those who have most of the repellent counter-reforms. So these budgets are 155, but also Confebask's. Paying wages, paying no taxes, and not investing in the research and development of this country with the budget of a patriotic retrospective which separates us from the strong economic future, instead of betting for a hundred strong and technological productives, which is the clearest example of a version of CEEEEE's. The tax reform that last year was impossible to address in a joint way with the budget debate, this year has been carried out without problems, of course contrary to what was demanded by the majority of this country and the majority of this House, including councillors and government partners until a few weeks ago. That is why these budgets are those of 155 and those of Confebask. These budgets are the result of a bad agreement and seed of bad budgets in the future. So, you deserve a clap, Mr. Substude, really. Because once more you've got the bitterest drink and the most unpleasant job, because you've got the rotten nut back to defend the project you sent to this parliament. You have maintained that the projects will be favorable to the people, and that the welfare of the citizens is psychologically important. And you've insisted on the importance of offering good public services, and it's also thought that this is dialectically important. And you have mentioned the efforts of the severe consequences of economic crisis, and the cohesion of citizens; and a person who knows little or nothing of this people may think that this government takes serious words. Unfortunately, Mr. Subalzu, you have forgotten to mention several other elements which are deep within this project, and especially those behind it. Behind and on the sides, and some openly, but others also secretly, because we do not yet know them. You have forgotten also to say that it is the result of a bargain which the patrician first claimed and afterwards applauded, and when the rich clap their hands, malo. "Si los ricos apladen, el pueblo sabe que no se avecina nada, que hay que bellevarse la mano a la la carat." And so the public services will receive no extraordinary benefit, and this project which we have in hand today will not be of any service to us. You yourself have said it this year, Mr Azpiazu: "There is no fat in the Administration, you have reached the bone. The collection has to be bigger." You said it. Education and health cannot go on with budgets like ten years ago. This project which you have brought to Parliament in the study and development of Europe will leave us very far from the average of Europe. We don't know where this town wants to be 10 years or 20 years from now, whether it's going to be an industrial country or not, what kind of industry we're going to invest in, or not, he'll be among the European leaders, or we'll continue in the Spanish Union, just like in the last years. In order to improve the conditions of work, the real effort will not be made, by condemning the people to the prerogative. The rights of the Basque tongue will never be confirmed again. And no woman's rights either. And plans, plans, plans, plans, and plans will be discussed, but if they don't implement it, they'll stay in that, as's happening. And the state of discrimination we women live in is shameful. But not only is it shameful, but it's structural. It is therefore allowed in many senses: We suffer worse conditions of labour; it is in the hands of women's care (the care of children, the oldest care), we charge less for the same work (and this is looked upon as the most ordinary thing, because it is a matter of structure, because we admit it). And then we're surprised that when women are treated like a second-rate citizen or when they're stalking us sexually, or when we get to the end, they kill us. I've just mentioned a few examples. I may mention more instances, but the words are words and marquetin Marchin (auzolan, public service, the welfare of the people... ) You wanted to put on a really bad-looking project, but under it, the usual: He will not encourage the cohesion of his fellow-citizens; he will not cultivate the union, he will treat the strong and the rich gently, and the weak most severe. So the head is the same as ever. In May this year, Mr. Subauzu, I heard you say that the tax, tax of societates in the Esscan Autonomy in Erdi, was very low in comparison with that of France, the United Kingdom, or Germany. The words you say are that he is collected from 12% of all the money he collects in the Spanish State, and here he is 7%. You said "La praeba del algodón." Or the colleagues of Podemos together this year's September have also mentioned that three months ago the power of Biscay was not to be dropped by the companies that had to be taxed without any complexity. And you yourself once again said that it was something, or that it was one thing, the theoretical type that should be paid for by companies and they really pay something else. That's what you said, but it seems as if the thesis of the boss with the potential has also been introduced. And we can't go on, flying around, driving in zigzag, because we don't know very well where we're going, saying one thing and doing the opposite tomorrow. We need a country that can be trusted, and with you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party and ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, we do not know if we are going to pay more taxes, less taxes, if we are going to change the IRPF, if it is going to be in the 20, the 30 or the 40. But we do know, that we do know, that you have the applause of Confebask. The employer will applaud them, because the only clear thing is that the big entrepreneurs, who already pay little, will pay even less, and will have about 200 million euros more in their pocket, an amount that has calculated the respected professor of Public Finance Ignacio Zubiri, because listening to you there is no one to clarify: some say one thing, others say the opposite, and others keep quiet. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party, the Socialist Party and the People's Party, that we are talking about taxpayers' money, something very serious, therefore, to walk with frivolities. We talk about the money paid by the women and men of this country, who aspire to live in a more dignified country, with serious rulers, and not in the Marx brothers' cabin. Because we are talking about 200 million euros that entrepreneurs will stop paying and that we will pay the others. It will become clear again that this Government continues to be submissive and servile to the powerful, and always arrogant, always arrogant to the weakest. A government that hides itself in the face of difficult problems, such as the loss of purchasing power of wages, labour market conditions, industrial fabric problems or investment in R & D; a government without leadership or direction, or more objective than perpetuating its pact with anyone; a conservative government that deliberately confuses stability with passivity, prudence with inaction, realism with conformism; a government that confuses pride with country with chauvinist arrogance. A government that wants to plunge this country into unjustified self-congratulation, permanently based on comparison with the worst neighbour, rather than seeking an emulation with the leading countries to which we should refer. This country has important and urgent challenges, in our view: to build an advanced industrial fabric, to improve income distribution through wage growth and a fairer fiscal policy than the current one, to improve public services. We have major challenges, but despite the propaganda, we do not live in an oasis of prosperity: 12% of the population is unemployed, one of the highest rates in Europe, and it is also a figure that is somewhat masked by the decline in the working population; 93% of the contracts signed in the Basque Autonomous Community are temporary; 32% of the people who work do so with an eventual contract; 25% of the workers have a part-time contract; wages have lost between 8.5 and 4.8 (according to the methodology) of purchasing power in recent years. Investment in R & D has fallen for the fourth consecutive year, falling to 1.82 of GDP, below the European average and also to China, closer to Spain than to Germany. The percentage of GDP represented by the budget of the Basque Government has increased from 15% in 2009 to 12.8 in 2018 (that means that we have worse public services). And we can keep talking about poverty, about social exclusion (which we will do later); about an educational system with great problems, ranging from haur-eskolas to postdoctoral studies, going through all stages of the educational cycle; about a health that goes backwards; about a administration undermined by temporality; about an industry that ages, with crises and closures of companies that occur one day yes and another not (I will not mention them again all)... It is not, in any case, a question of catastrophe, but of finding that much remains to be done and that it is unacceptable to put stability as the central objective of a government, as if we had such an idyllic reality that the only thing left is to stabilize it. To renounce change, strategic objectives and commitment to the transformation of reality are the signs of identity of this Government, which speaks of stability in order to cover up a deeply conservative talent in the most political sense of the word. And let us consider a little more of the course that this government has violated, since it has no majority, for its lack of vote. It's the second time in this law, the Jest Party, who chooses to choose the main divisional Party. When the budget was approved, Mr. Egibar said the agreement was cheap, but it's the second time. And for the second time, we have heard that you wanted to blame the Basque People at The Parsonage. I don't know if you're ashamed of the Papal Party, but I think that's what the Basque People think you're happy about, because that's the main reason for the deal. PP was going to be cheap, but you agree to encourage conservative policies, you like not to spread too much language politics, you're happy to include the money in the big company pockets, you're happy to maintain your job, you're happy to maintain 800 Euro wages together. Together, you make giant trains and crematorium that have no clear routes. And you seem to like to have one more Spanish community in Araba, Biscaia, and Gipu (Euskal Autonomia Er memberia) in this Spanish league. So the negotiation would have been cheap, but you didn't think much of this town as a village. And you didn't mean to negotiate with anyone else. You had first thought of who you were going to make this deal with, and the rest of it was a theater that would not do even the best Ceestina. And all this is bad for this country. And I can understand, Mr. Erkoa and Mr. Alonso, to be friends from Madrid and to agree with you in all those matters I have said, but if I have to tell you the truth, this has no other sign. The Basque Country sent a document to my mind about this project. A condition to negotiate and a document to work. And what would we say about your conversation with "Ya"? There was nothing in conversation, as usual, nothing. And the reason is that our conditions were not fulfilled. And what genius in the document? For those of you who do not know, I will tell you, first of all, that we placed in this document precise measures possible and possible. They'll be useful to the community and they'll be helpful. Anyone who believes in solidarity and social justice shouldn't have a problem accepting it. The measures that this project was going to be treated as a mess. The solutions to the problems of this town seem partial to us. The continuous propaganda can't even cover it. And I've already mentioned some data (and there are even more data) that I've said about the situation in research and innovation. Have you guys checked the list of patents? Did you guys check out how much the investigators charge? Do we know where this government wants to take this country for the next 20 years? I repeat that because that's important. I don't know if it's 20... 10, 15 years, what this town has to do, because if he knows it, it's not obvious. Today a company shuts itself up after saying it won't shut down, tomorrow it sells to him or to him, telling him it's a guarantee of the future, and when you get back a month, the fire goes off without embarrassment. It seems to us that the industrial policy must anticipate this situation, that it cannot be disciplined, but must be productive instead of reactative. The constant propaganda can't cover up the conditions under which thousands and thousands of people are working (and this is a very important thing), massing contracts one after the other... And this is also the case in public administration, and in this case they ought to know something, both the chief physician and the chairman of the Medical Department. But besides the contracts, how many hours of work are actually paid and how many they don't get paid, how many people have died this year in a direct relationship with the pretorial conditions of work, and how many young people, who have to stay at their parents' home, can't get their lives through a autonomous project... All these people are to be protected and budgetd, but here they are approved of the form of work of Spain and PP. And what is the result of that? Well, thousands of people are doomed to get out of poverty. If there are thousands, thousands, thousands, 500,000 people in poverty, poverty, and this danger, they are in a serious position to fall asleep. Maybe they don't vote because they have past jobs, maybe they're not interesting in that sense, but they have their names, their children, they have grandparents that have to be cared for, they're men and women in the Basque Country and we can't leave them behind, we can't leave thousands and thousands of people behind us. As we cannot leave the young and the old, without knowing whether the young are condemned to live in misery, and whether the old will arrive at their lodgings. The Spanish Social Security has no money left, and he has to pay for credit. The popular Party has eaten up the sum of Spanish Social Security. And it's very simple to say, but it's more than 60,000 million, and he's spent it in the same size as the banker has forgiven him. And this is the protection they give to the people-that is to say, the model of the American Party, which protects the Jelt Party of the West, and seems to have a taste for the Euskal Autonomy in the Ereric. And when I mention young and old, I don't even want to forget the necessary solidarity between generations. The Basque workers are older and older, the young men are closed to the factory doors, the Administration itself has this problem, and we can't ignore it. We can't condemn people who are 40-50 to-day, to take care of themselves, to take charge of the young men who have no future, and also to take care of the oldest of their homes. All these people have a right to live with dignity, and the Administration has to support this dignity, and the Administration has to offer it professionally. 21st they are the public services of the age. But they don't get it through privatization, they don't get the rate of ten per cent of public workers' time with this budget of 155 and Confebask. These problems will not also disappear for being ignored and the ostrich policy will not yield a good result. You can hide your head like ostriches, but the problems won't go away. And they start telling you from business (because there is not only Confebask), and they also tell you from academia. We have offered solutions and we continue to do so, we will continue to do so, but you refuse to even discuss those proposals. We've seen it in the process that has brought us here. You told us that we could not talk about anything other than budgets, but it is that article 155 of the Spanish Constitution and its perverse application has a lot to do with budgets, a lot. And it has a lot to do with it because it makes it clear who's got the frying pan for the handle. And 155, for that very reason, has much to do with what we are talking about, because that 155 allows governments and parliaments to be brushed, it is the same that they have been elected by citizens; it allows the Government of Spain to intervene in accounts even in public libraries or in research against cancer, as they have done in Catalonia. And without the need of that 155 we can already lay down laws in this Parliament, limit spending, not allow us to manage our own money, set the hours of public workers, not allow us to hire... 155 is the truce and the essence of everything that constrains us; so to speak of 155 is to speak of budgets, of concrete things, because 155 is nothing more than the sharp edge of the sword that day by day hangs over our heads. Some of the members of this government are responsible for the Social Party, for example, and the social societies of this government, the popular Party, too. Article 155 has upset the mantra that the Spanish State is an autonomical State. It's a lie. In the Spanish State the central Government decides when and what to do, when to destroy a autonomous parliament, when to remove a president from office and when to send him to prison. And those who accept it and encourage it must be in the Basque Country? Really? Well, you can explain why. It was not a great demand for the government of the Eucta-Feal Party to be cleared up. It wasn't big. He doubts, and doubts for anyone to see you here one day respecting and assisting the decrees of the Parliament of Catalonia, and following those who rush about the next day, break, crush, and destroy them. One thing or the other, but both of it is difficult. It's a great incoherence. And I'm afraid, as has happened this time, that a thing in Madrid could not be remembered, and here the leading man has been able to settle with him, I'm afraid that the 21st of December will come to an end, and I'm afraid you'll agree to it in a heartbeat, because now it's too ugly. And, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, I have also told you from this very rostrum on more than one occasion: your votes have made it possible, you have applauded and accepted that the Spanish Government can dissolve an autonomous parliament. And besides, since I haven't told you directly before, I also want to remind you that, being a left-wing guarantee – or that's what you're saying lately – you're looking at the most comfortable thing by reducing taxes on big companies and agreeing with the People's Party. They may remember it in some village house or in the General Workers' Unit. Maybe you should review concepts like left, socialism, worker... and, well, that's where we're going. In any case, we should not miss much either, because you are the same ones who allied with Major Oreja to try to throw out Ibarretxe, and the same ones who arrived in Ajuria Enea with the support of the People's Party. At the same time as the Popular Party and Party Socialist Party, they're building this town. Neither of them believe in this country, either culture or perhaps, but nothing else. And with these associations, PNV-PSE-PPP-Colications condemns Araba, Biscay, and Gipus to be another member of the Spanish autonomous community. You have chosen to play the Spanish League, or the King's Cup if you prefer, or the 155. You're comfortable with a slightly higher classification between the Spanish autonomists, but though you've been a little high for many years, there are some facts that seem to me to be disturbing. Madrid, for instance, has passed us in the rent of per cápita, and in the hope of life (and here is the date of hope of life, and I believe it deserves to speak about the hope of life, because it is important). We have fewer differences from Spain. And that would be of no importance to me, if it meant the conditions of life, the conditions of the Spanish population, the conditions of the Spanish profession, the conditions of the social justice of the Spanish people... they've improved. If that were the case, I'd be so happy. But what's happened is that we've been stuck together, exhausted, as someone would say, moving away from Europe and getting closer to Spain. We want the Basque People from the assembly to decide everything that the Basque People have to say about them in their future. And these budgets keep us away from this project. It's a bad project for this town. And that's why, considering all this, we also want to tell you that other budgets are possible. Comrades of the government, this town needs a shock. He must have all the tools he has to use to design the future, and we must be in our power. We don't have to ask for permission. We don't have to be afraid of anyone. The Basque Country is able to defend itself alone in the world (even in economicness). We need courage, vital in the face of sadness, the color of the people in front of a grey village, the will and will to win the future in front of despair and surrender. We believe that the Basque People deserve more than they have, and your message is fear again, fear of losing everything, 155. And this is not the word which this people has received until now. For if not, this people would not arrive here. We're not going to disappear and we're not going to disappear. It is urgent and necessary that we change our course and change our companions. If we want a new state to be founded on the right of deciding, if we want public policies which will and requires social majority, we want solid social services, if we wish to build a more just and democratic society, we need other alliances. Mr. Urkullu, there are alternatives. In front of 155 and Confebaske's budget, there are other alternatives. Collecting the Basque People's arm, hand, two arms, two hands outstretched, and if we listen to so many comments on our offers here and there, let us believe that our offer is genuine and true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-11.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. On the other hand, the Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-11.u19	Thank you, President. The Socialist Group had some doubts about the debate on the amendment to the whole of Bildu, but we were cleared after your speech, Mrs Iriarte, because it has been a déjà vu and more of the same. We have had no doubt, on the other hand, that we are once again defending why we are voting in favour of budgets that will reach the entire citizenry, think of it as it thinks and feels as it feels. It has become very clear that this amendment to the whole of Euskal Herria Bildu is based on an attempt to erase the Socialist Party of Euskadi from the political map. It is based on exclusion, it is based on the negation of the different, it is based on the attempt of political annihilation of the rival, it is based on a thesis that for Bildu begins to be a mantra, that of building a country forgetting and denying those who are not like you, those who are not like Euskal Herria Bildu. It is based on anti-politics, on the thesis also supported by the xenophobic parties, which is so broad and regrettable in Europe. And our doubts in the debate on his amendment to the whole have been: But what do the Basque Socialists do by arguing with those who claim to annihilate us politically? Have they not yet learned that even terrorist violence has not prevented us from making it possible for a public school in Euskadi to be run over by the educational system, without taking a step back in that conquest? Do you not know that, even with this terrible threat, we did not take a step back in the transformation of the Ikastoles, for example, so that they would cease to be a ghetto, or so that the Euskera would cease to be a marginal language and acquire the status that corresponds to it? Do you not know that even before he was killed by a socialist, Ernest Lluch, it was possible for health in Spain to be recognized as a universal right, and another socialist was the first to guarantee it from Euskadi? Do they not know that while others were charging for their seats without sitting on them, others made income security income possible in Euskadi? Have they not heard that we are pushing them, together with other parliamentary groups, in addition to our own, to make the subjective right to housing possible in Euskadi? Do you not know that without the socialists today Euskal Herria Bildu could not even have the freedom to say that they do not want the socialists to rule? And the Basque Socialists also make these reflections out loud: But who is Euskal Herria Bildu to decide who may or may not be part of a government? But who do they think they are, when they only look at their own, when they have demonstrated, as soon as they have had the opportunity, their inability to manage institutionally, and when they are the ones who sneak away with any excuse not to give their face for citizenship when it does not obey their political ideal? These are the reflections, Mrs Iriarte, which the Basque Socialists deserve from us the amendment to the whole of Bildu, and to which we will vote against, because it has no budgetary, political or country alternatives behind it. We will vote against for the demonstrated inability of its authors to generate sufficient majority, for the obvious falsehood of its numbers, and because it is undemocratic in its approaches. Bildu defends his amendment to the entire budget as if nothing could have been done throughout his history, specifically when they had the opportunity to change policies, those that now refer to as continuists. And yes, the abertzale left has an immense responsibility, or, rather, an immense irresponsibility, as it is seen, for trying to make politics unaware of reality, its real and non-imaginary weight in institutional life. They have an immense responsibility for their remixes and repairs in making country pacts between different for the sake of the majority. They have a huge responsibility to think about the interests of those who run this country's most important trade union and not its thousands of affiliates. They have a lot of responsibility to always look for an excuse for everything and not be participants at the end of anything important of what is achieved in Euskadi for Basque citizenship. This year's latest innovation for 2018 has been to justify, in the face of budgets, its attitude and its opposite position in the problems of Catalan independenceists. They have argued as an excuse not to negotiate the budgets the presence of the socialists in the Basque Government; the presence, in short, of those from Basque, Madrid and Catalonia who until the last moment tried to avoid this application of Article 155 of the Constitution and that the Catalan nationalists would dynamite their self-government. We said it loud and clear, then and now, and our Catalan comrades at the PSC as well. Socialists did not want either the unilateral declaration of independence or the application of 155, that article that these same independenceists, less the expression, are obeying one by one. While Bildu was in the imaginary republic, the Basque socialists were participating in the design of strategic plans and reforms that seek to transform and improve the life of Basque citizens. While Bildu is still in the DUI, the socialists, plan by plan, reform by reform, we are looking for allies to strengthen our future bet. While Bildu continues to gloat at the chaos caused by his Catalan allies, the socialists have occupied us with the search for allies in the political stability demanded by Basque citizens. This is the reality. This is Euskadi, ladies and gentlemen of Euskal Herria Bildu. This is not what you imagine. It is what it is; in short, a country where some and some, despite you, we work, as we have already demonstrated and achieved, to obtain sufficient economic resources, making it pay the most. A country where, even if you conceal it, the socialists do what you also wanted, and it is that the effective rate of corporation tax was raised, what companies actually pay for their profits, bringing corporate income tax closer to income tax. A country where, even if it hurts you, people want and ask political parties to seek and reach agreements between different parties. A country where, even if it bothers you, the policies that at other happy times you wanted to agree with us and which we socialists, with effort and also tenacity, have been making reality, such as extending aid to compensate for medicine, expanding the coverage of energy poverty, studying the extension of income guarantee income to new collectives, strengthening the right to housing, extending the commitment to innovation, offering more public employment than ever before, increasing the salaries of civil servants, turning our efforts in the fight against labour fraud. All of this, and quite a bit more, we are materializing it by the Socialists by making use even of the agreements with you. For the Socialists do not lapse the word given to us, and, less so, the Socialists do not lapse our deep conviction that the best country that can be built is the one in which we all fit. And this, beyond the nationalistic and sovereignistic feelings that you have and we do not, is the greatest difference that separates us, but the greatest of all, the concept in itself, of democracy and plurality. And although this is the profound position of your entire amendment to the whole budget, which is an amendment to the whole of the agreements from which you fled as warm cats just over a year ago, we will not obviate the largest one. Because they insist on lying. To try to simulate that their budget bet is alternative, they intend to change the destination of 4% of the budget, including the high-speed train, when it turns out that a quarter of that amount – you know better than anyone else – can't allocate it to anything else, because it's a management order and it's an expense that in turn has a government income of its so-called Spain, and it's a finalist program in income and expenditure. And you, knowing it better than anyone else, are made Swedish, because it is for your purpose to make progress with the partial amendments. And Bildu cheats in solitary, and another year you have to tell them that it doesn't hang, ladies and gentlemen; that the legal reports of this very house are repeated that tell them that this is not an amendment to be taken into account. And it's clear that if they didn't put that figure, they'd have the argument to come here today to explain what reasons there are for returning a budget like this to the drawer. Because seeking to change the fate of some EUR 250 million, of the EUR 11,500, almost EUR 11.5 billion that has this budget, does not justify this request of the amendment to the whole, look where you are looking, Mrs Iriarte. But, what's more, you may or may not agree with the high-speed train, that's legitimate, I don't deny it, but pretending that there is someone who believes that a budget is regressive, antisocial and mediocre, and that has as its main part to correct that infrastructure, is a worrisome weakness to be a group that leads the opposition. It is only interesting, from its amendment to the whole, to know the annual excuse for its budget rejection. This year, the Basque Socialists are in the government. You have said this before: you have submitted to the Basque Government a document with a precondition for negotiation, and it is to throw the Socialists out of the Government, and then a document for negotiation. You have given priority to the condition of negotiation. You guys gave that priority. And, as I was telling you, this year is that the Socialists are in the government. Nine months ago, in March 2017, there was a shortage of economic resources, revenue negotiation was not accepted, and therefore amendment to the totality that falls. In 2016, you presented the Socialist Group with a list of investments to see if we could agree, and we said, "On the list yes, but how do you intend to finance it?". They never told us, that was the end of the negotiation, and another amendment to the whole. That is, in short, always your excuse, or at least try to find an excuse so that year after year you can submit an amendment in its entirety. In short, yours is the no for the no. And I ask myself: Are you the ones who deny a proactive attitude by this government, when you again stay out of an agreement by putting party interests before the interests of Basque citizens? And I conclude. In spite of you and your commitment to exclusion, the Basque Socialists will do everything we can to extend, to extend rights for all and for all, and we will also do what is impossible to promote political and institutional stability, which is what citizenship is demanding of us. And despite you and we will continue to have the door open to try to get your participation in everything we have ahead, which is a lot. Another thing will be whether you want it or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-11.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-11.u21	Good morning, everyone. In the first lines of general correction two sentences are explained, and one says: The 2018 budget project isn't good. And a second sentence: "We don't see enough of "men and powers." At least we see a suitor: "it is not good" and "we do not need to see so much action or power." So there is also a mention of sufficientness."They say they've opened a window for the sky," said the song, "didn't they? Then we'll see how the corrections have gone, but, as Mrs. Irriart said, missing a vote, it's true that the door of the negotiation was open and the three teams were watching. That's right, you know... Then it's the other thing what each one makes of his measurements. What we can't do is why it would be contempt, what we can't give a vote for is a vote. We know that the gathering party has 18 votes, and together, Podemos, 11, and Poptular Party, 9, and when you plan a negotiation, you say, "We know which of this Chamber, where the priorities of either of us are going... "and that must be measured. What you can't mar is your budget. We're running a project, funk is a project that we're sponsoring by the two teams, which we can't fake with the rights, why would she lose her temper then, she wouldn't get her goals. But seeing others, and the corrections introduced by others, and whence they proceed, give us an idea. But you lift the light. You say, by making a political reading, that it's the budget of article 155. For me, this is an excess, an excess of beginning. And abuses are not good in life, and in politics too it is not good to establish a position too much. And I'll tell you why it's an exaggeration. Why, if it were so, on the long road we're looking for a vote, you or you, seeing what's meant by the application of that article 155 (you mention a story, you've told us, it's the beginning of your speech), if you'd like to be so careful, why don't you put two abstices on the table to negotiate? Two Abstensions. These games are not unknown to that group. You change two taxies and all the board, you change the political table. And 155. you keep a clean position about this article, and at least allow it to be the presupust. You say, "Don't worry, you've got the presupus covered here." You didn't do that. Why? Because it's not true, it's not true. And the second reason: Because you can't. Why? Because at this time, EH Collect has to make a speech stronger because it's another one. And it suits you very well with PNV PSOE in the government, and then connects a contract with PP, even if it's for the budget, but that's always feeding a story. He is still able to collect EH, without the other blind-boy, to make politics and to prolong his proposals from one side to the other. It can't be! No toca! No toca! Bestela,zertara dator hemen esaten duzuena: "The PNV must choose between starting a dialogue and a sincere negotiation in order to bring this country together to a situation of stability based on democracy and social justice, or if on the contrary it prefers to remain tied to its current schemes and alliances". Hori da aurrekontuen aurrebaldintza zuen aldetik, aurrekontuen aurrebaldintza. Baldintza policiakoa. Political conditioning, legitimate. If you combine the conditioner, we will qualify, social or trade union, of the trade union bloc (exogenous or endogenous, is equal to me), the conditioner, what real possibilities did we have in agreement?, what real possibilities politically? Because I'm going to go through amendments, evaluate them, we can do it, and of course I'm going to dedicate part of my speech, but... What I've seen clearly is that he had it clean from the start (and perhaps not last year, perhaps, a little cleaner). And I'll give you the reason we've introduced the prosecutor in a way that some of them have conditioned him, and you probably didn't have it as it could have been admitted. We all have mistakes here, but I don't understand that as a mistake, because the negotiation has led you to it. If she had put two abscess on the table, maybe we would have talked about other things. but it is also fair to make a decision, and to make a long proposal. I've seen a bit of fun there, funnier. And there's even more fun in politics. I won't say so much maturity. It's hard to measure the volume of maturity in politics. Each of them has his own proceedings inside the house and outside the house, and by his side. But what we've seen clearly is that we didn't have a chance to make a deal. And one says, "If the preconditions are not met, why should we talk about the budget? "No? But let's keep the picture going. You say: "These things are consistent." That's one of the critics. That's the same thing. That's the same thing. And we say: "From time to time, I've had two axes. And I think it was the budget that demonstrated the testimony of it. One person, one person target, and the other, the neighborhood. And I think that the presupus have tried to keep it and guard it. And seeing your corrections (there are many numbers, but looking at these 222 million), I see no innovation. There are no alternative models there. And furthermore, the corrections which you have introduced are unbalanced, unbalanced! For you have a chapter, "other," "de varies," if we make its preventive projections, we need double powers, and it doesn't appear that way. Then you see where you want to add it. Employment and industry. Well, in this department, 185 are removed, 183 placed, but as has been said, there is the theme of a high-speed train, and in this case the work of this southern railway. To take away from it, and to introduce other works or projects, knowing that it is impossible to do so. But, well, that's about $185 million. But let us go to particular matters. The fund for helping in the industrial strategy. There is. Strengthen it. What's to be done, double it? It could be proposed. That's a possibility, but it's not an alternative, it's adding it. Or 21 million science, technology, and innovation. How much more is it to be added? Is it an alternative, or is it an extra? In the profession department, social policies, 15. Or hit 2,4. Or a financial fund of 27 million. Or in health and education, 1,400 jobs increase... And it is not well done to suppose prevision for the next years and events. Then we say: "Well, did this exercise work well? "I think: Your preconditions are so strong at the time of settling your position... That is to say, political precondition, which you place around article 155, and social blocks, or unions, at least explain their improvisation at your position. With these two preconditions, it's been a budget exercise, an illusion exercise. And it has no deep change in it. But great incoherence! At least we've seen it that way. We say, however, that we ought to make discourses, discourse, and prioritys, and consequently the means. And I see some elements around your whole corrections, which we ought to deal with in the future. Why don't we agree that it's a problem against problems and shootings? You say he doesn't do enough. But it's clear that if you want to spend the last four or six years trying to serve this town in the last few decades, it's just that this fun fights and challenges the people have, it's trying to move forward. You say we fell into conformism. I don't think we've fallen into conformism. As for the means we have, in our opinion, that we are making the most suitable application to the character of the people and the character of the nation. Can it get better? I'm sure you are, but that's what you have to commit to, you have to enter one and try to make a statement. That's why we can see clearly... and when it is explained in correction (this is why I don't know how many hands they've been working on this correction), why, when we say to the future, we want "expedient and learned people," "expertion, innovation, development... "Well, we all agree with these ends. Then why didn't we agree to discuss pre-supures which are indispensable instruments for the departure of all this? Because there are preconditions. 155. Give up the argument to the article. There's no credibility! There's no credibility! Why, I don't care if you see that whole team coming along with the apocalypse and the president there and the other and I don't know what and what and what and what and what and what and the arrests and... Two votes are on the table! And you sit in the middle of the square. Don't go to the barn! They get very little of the pipe of Gol and focus and when you get in the head, it's very difficult, it's innocent! You've got to get into politics and you're not getting in. That the Poptular Party has taken advantage of its opportunity? Of course! But that does not mean (not theirs, of course, because they are very proud) that they have changed or altered our position about article 155. They won't change it! And time will be the smartest witness of that, the next months. What the other said: "Al tempo." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-11.u22	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Passing on the day's answers, the representative of EH Collector, Mrs. Iriart, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-11.u23	You've asked me to be committed, Mr. Egibar, and at the beginning of the law of the Basque Country, in the budget, in these budgets, and recently in an offer which he has made to this country, he offers to the people an engagement and offers it to the Journal Party of Euz and offers it to bring the Podemosis into another place together. And you know that. And even if the President of your party said that it was the idea of "hot fire" (for the great work of the warmest farewell to all of the bombers, and even to my fellow-work), it seems to me that it is not an idea of bonders, and that there is a common people, as you have said, that we can carry this people into another place. And you're telling me that we've preconditioned on this negotiation. It seems that the Jultarian Party has put on the possums in Madrid. What you say is that the Jest Party in Madrid won't stand for the Spanish budget while the 155s are on the table. Klaro! Well, it's not very different what we've done here. And I'll tell you something... Yeah, it's not different at all. We said that while 155 is on the table, there was nothing to negotiate with a partner who seemed to be on the condition of negotiating. And what I am going to say further is, that in other cases and in other cases you have asked them to change, let them relax, let them soften their position. You could tell the Socialist Party that this wasn't something that would make it easier for the budget. And he was there. He didn't answer at all. And we do not deny and affect that it is a very profound anti-democratic decision, either for all the arguments I have given to Catalonia alone, or to the Basque People in a straight line, we shall not forget that. What is it that we planned on our alternative? You're the one who said a few things. In the study, in the development, in the industrial politics, the paradigm in the neurostic... We have not spoken of the mythical paradigma, but I believe we have some work to do, and that we must advance our steps in order not to remain in the last parts of Europe, and even in this sense this people may be the end. The balance between the lands (which I don't know formerly of any importance Mrs. Gorospe has given), I believe it is important to guard the balance of the countries in the appropriate political manufacturer. And one more thing, which is important, what the industry creates, is to return to the people by means of their salaries, and also by a just political attorney. And around this fair attorney, the Basque Country is about a year ago placing a proposition on the table that we can't even talk about, and we've got our doubts about what you're putting on the table now, because social taxes are collected in Euscalom, 1,4, 2,4 or so in the state, from a point of raw internal product, which supposes that 700 million dollars is less. The weight of Societatate tax has also been rented into the middle of the last nine years, and there are fewer $1,000 in the last nine years. The entire Εmperor, therefore, sits on the staff board through the VAT and through the IRPF. And you are saying different and inconsistent things that are involved in this reform, and then it may be inferred that some one does not tell the truth, or at least that you do not appreciate things. We don't know if the crowd's pressure will be lower, that means they'll pay less... [... He says they'll pay more at last. But where are these official data? What simulation are you working on? There is also a clear reason why we do not support these budgets, because, as I have told you, there are several things that have to be improved. I have said in what sense they ought to be improved, and in what sense they ought to be encouraged, Mr. Egibar, but don't tell me that our preconditions were indissoluble, because they are conditions which you have placed elsewhere. It seems to me that it is a strategy to change, that it is not so much a number or so. What we want to do with this people, where we want to get there with this people, where we want to place this people, we must here invent the cause and the meaning of it. And it will be difficult to guess at this with the Popular Party and the Socialist Party, unless things change too much, we can make our way together. And they say that they are founded on compact, and founded on compact, and that they show their desire to follow a road which we might all do together, and that we deny it. No, we don't deny that. They refuse us the chance to do that. To this people, we are denied that the minority of this parliament and the minority of this people may have another way. For, if all roads are possible, if all disputes are possible, I should never think it possible to make a global bargain. But those who close the way and reduce the way are those who tell us that we are only Spain and that we can be no more than Spain. Zer Gehiago...? Mrs Corcuera, look, we know the role your party has played in this budgetary negotiation. We saw it in the photo of Azpiazu and Damborenea's signature; we saw it when Idoia Mendia met with Cebek and said that the company tax would not be lowered. I believe that the most difficult role has been played by you, Mrs Corcuera, because you have to justify a conservative budget, behind the back of society, so it saddens us to see you so willingly in this agreement. Agreements by agreements, well, have the importance they have and have the interest they have. But no more than that, because if it is not going to be agreements that will improve the lives of citizens, women and men in this country, it seems to me that, well, the agreement for the agreement can have value, but certainly not very great. I want to finish what's left of time with a data I've read these days (which I don't know where I have it...) in the recent Sociometer that we've had the opportunity to read all of them. There's a fact that really bothered me and hasn't anything to do with certain points, data, hundreds of points, and other things that have been handled here today, but I really think we should be taking care of as a village. 18 of the 100 population of Araba, Bizkai, and Gipuzian, 18 of 100 people, believe that the sun is the turning of the earth! It is a data of the ultimate sociometer, and it has not been too much spoken of, and has not been given too great a preference, it has been more than the pleasure of the citizens to have one or the other politics. Well, it's almost five to one that thinks the sun is the one that turns the earth. That's what bothered me most about the data taken at this sociometer, because it seems to me that this people is losing an opportunity in education, wisdom, science, that we're losing a chance of becoming an advanced people. There are a lot of people who think the sun is the one who turns the earth. We'd have to put all our alarms red, and all, whatever we have, to upset this situation. And not so much of this or that, whether we improve a point or two points, I think we must alter strategys, if this country is really a people that can be compared with the most advanced nations in the world. I believe it is so, because it has been so before, but it is gravity to think that it is the sun that turns the earth around. I repeat, the hand of the Basque People, which, though it seems to be hot, is extended not to-day, not for a month to come, but for a long time, so that this people may make a new way through other strategies. Thank you and good morning!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-11.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. To answer, the Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-11.u25	Yes, thank you, President. Mrs Iriarte, you are seen as you are seen, the amendment to the whole of Euskal Herria Bildu hides its own frustration. That you would have wanted another government is clear, but that can only be forced from the opposition by the motion of censure to the lehendakari, presenting an alternative. But the alternative that Euskal Herria Bildu has, because it is quantified thirteen months ago, is eighteen votes of seventy-five. And it's a lot, eh!, but not one more than those eighteen seats. And they have no more because they have no one to add to the project, no one to share strategy with. That is why they are neither an alternative nor an alternative in Euskadi for this legislature. That's why they don't have an alternative to these budgets for 2018. But don't worry, the year is not running out of money in this debate, and the budgets that we will adopt, despite their exclusive speech, are going to make it possible to strengthen public services, those that worry them so much, with more employees and better conditions to do so. It is these budgets that will enable the extension of rights, reach out to more people, who need more budgets, so that agreed public policies are also implemented. And they are the ones who will enable the necessary calm and political stability to cope with the great reforms that we have in our portfolio. And we need this 2018 to be a no-fly year, to focus on what's important and to do well the tasks we have in hand. Because stability is not a one-year margin that we ask for to be ruling twelve more months; it is the political climate essential for economic growth, for the consolidation of the rights conquered in the past, and for lighting up what we propose and what we need to build. And despite the speeches of Euskal Herria Bildu, despite his attempts at exclusion, in case they haven't found out yet I repeat it to him, and it is that the socialists will not give up. And since we are neither, nor do we want to be like you, the Socialists are not going to despise one of their contributions, which Euskal Herria Bildu wants to make, not one, but provided that they make sense and are within the framework in which we move in this State and in this country. Because we socialists believe deeply in a country where you too have room. We have respected that you govern relevant Basque institutions, although you have shown serious difficulties and great difficulties in doing so, not to mention inoperation. And we have also been able to meet at that political juncture. We have reached agreements with you, too. The Socialists have never agreed from the veto or from the exclusion, and that is why we have always been eager and willing, with all the groups in this House, to talk and try to agree on the great reforms pending: the reform of income guarantee income, that of Lanbide, the programs of the disadvantaged regions, to attend to the collectives of workers of companies in difficulty, to reform EITB, for the decree regulating the right to housing, that we design by hand, also for the comprehensive law of care for victims of gender violence... Finally, that, in spite of yourselves, the socialists tenaciously continue to rely on you, because we think that they can bring more than a sovereignistic feeling. We think that in their self-definition as left abertzale they have some leftover from the first part and they believe (like the Basque socialists, don't they?) the principles of equality, solidarity and social justice. And they know they need us. So much for wanting to exclude us is recognition of what we Basque Socialists are presenting, a left that has dyed with progressive public policies over the past forty years, which is what we will continue to do in the coming decades. Referring to one of the issues you raised, these are not the 155 budgets. These are the budgets that support and strengthen self-government in Euskadi. And you, who defend so much independence and your need for recognition in Europe, should also think, perhaps, on that chess board, how to make the move, if the case came up, to see, the Stability Act and the conditions proposed by Europe for budgetary stability, how they would apply them in that hypothetical case of independence in Euskadi. It is not we, the Basque Socialists, who have left our commitment to neither the State nor to Euskadi in doubt. We are not the ones who promise the position (the public office) "by legal imperative". We participate in the elaboration of the Spanish Constitution, we participate in the elaboration of the Statute of Gernika, and, as I say to you, we are not the ones who promise the posts as a legal imperative. Corporate tax... Because it is not very appropriate in this House, but it is like betting money that we are actually going to get more collection than we currently have. And it doesn't work, but I leave it here to either of the two groups. It is not an absolutely awkward position that I am holding here this whole morning, Mrs Iriarte, make no mistake. I'm so comfortable. I have always thought that budgets always, anyone, in any institution, can be improved, must be improved, but with the contribution of everyone, and sensible contributions. And you have not, you have intended to erase us from the political map, and with that conditioning you were very aware that you could never reach any agreement, either with the Basque Nationalist Party or with the Basque Socialist Party. Therefore, I agree to support some budgets...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-11.u26	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-11.u27	Yeah, right now, president. ... To support budgets that involve the future, the future of Euskadi and economic growth and employment for Basque citizens. Sometimes it is said that it is better a bad agreement than a good one; for in this case it is neither a bad one nor that we are in a situation for lawsuits. Socialists are going to do what Bildu, with eighteen seats, has not been able to do today, and it is to build a space in which we all, without a single measure, none, nor one, discriminates against anyone for their feelings. Only that attitude will allow us to make a better Euskadi. Nothing more. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-11.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuer. Eubertarians, Monsieur Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-11.u29	Now that you have mentioned the subject of the prosecution, I don't have the latest data (I confess), but it is clear that there have been some precalculations, and that the change of the tax over the associations, although the downing of the nominals has been rated in two years, which would then, in itself, as an efficient type, I think is in question, Mrs. Corcue has been mentioned by Mrs. Because, indeed, the compensation for negative tax bases is diminished and the limits taken as financial expenditure, which completely alters the subject of deterrents. We'll see the consequences, the results, when it's applied next year. But I don't think we have that difference. We've been watching them... (In Navarre we are governed by the way, within Baia, the Jeltth Party of the South, collect, Podemos, and Iruerda.) We have several different examples, and seem to have been given a change of regime, where we agree in the prosecution. There are certain differences, there are shades, but we will compare them; why, sometimes from the top and sometimes below, but there is some equality. So we're not that different. What's going on? Whether or not a regime should be changed here (somebody will think it is), because the policy must change because we are here. What's possible in the Navarro... There seems to be a fight between hegemony here, well, that's what he's doing. Instead of taking political equipment, you try to use some kind of false arguments. I told you before: Move the winch. If EH Collect wants to be an alternative to PNV, he'll have to take action and agree to what's opposite. At least I am convinced of it, and Mr. Urizar knows my theory. I don't know how many years from now or when, but if EH Collect is an alternative to PNV, he must first rule with PNV, why we have ends, challenges, and problems, even if both parties do not run in one place, they will need some strategic agreements looking into the future. And about what you've said before, and about these offers, and all that, I'm not going to say a word about it, so why we know how and how they come to our house with a situation like this. Our home, that is to say, to the Home of the Jeltzac Party. Therefore I think that prejugations and prejugations have come to a certain extent, and in this exercise you mentioned, you say about this article 155: "PNV closes the door in Madrid." Of course, we've closed him, he has to, he has to, we're not going to give him anything, he needs it. If this is our special necessity here, and the Popular Party has come into the middle of the square, he has seen that no one else has entered, and he has placed himself in the middle of the square with the fifth parlamentary force, and has played. Now what do you want? Did he have a chance to talk about the presupuest to complete his precondition? I mean: To send the Socialists home, say to the Popular Party, "Hey, you have nothing to do with us! "and then go to you? We're gonna need a network, right? Do you know what the net was? Two Abstensions. It's not politics to make two abstractions from the beginning and negotiation, that's not politics. Put it in the middle of the square and sound it! That's politics! If not, it'll happen. You said ducks before, didn't you? Duck, you mentioned duck. Well, I heard one of your team a long time ago, and I'll tell you what he said. He used to say, for himself: "We are like the ducks of the Women of Ingeldo. There's no way." He would say: "Why, knowing that you're going to pass in front of the pum-pum-pum people and play with corks or balins again, you come back. And that's the drill of our duck." He said so himself. Ask any one of you, and some one, a friend of yours, will know who said that. So stop being a duck and put it in the middle of the square!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-11.u30	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. I'm gonna vote for the rest of the argument to see if it comes back or not to the Law Project. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 72; the partisans on the side 29; the opponents are 43; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-11.u31	So it doesn't come back to the Law Project. As the next vote is the representative of the Basque Potula Group, Lord Damborena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-11.u32	Thank you very much, Madam President. Today, December 11, thirty years ago ETA murdered six adults and five girls in Zaragoza, and twenty years ago ETA murdered our colleague José Luis Caso, Councillor of Renteria. But today I think we are also going to celebrate another ephemeride, which is that Mr Erkoreka is not in jail, just as some other group apparently intended. Today we are voting for the return of the Basque Government's budgets or not, and everyone here is talking about social majority, but the social majority is the one that has been reflected in the vote. That has been the social majority, which has been elected by Basque citizens in the last autonomous elections. The two return amendments are based on a premise that they are contrary to the principle of stability of the fiscal consolidation framework or to the deficit and debt limits. And as we are obviously in favour of continuing in Europe, in the euro, we are obviously in favour of the Basque Government fulfilling the obligations under which all Basques, or most Basques, do not know whether or not they are social, we agree, to continue in Europe and in the euro. And, answering Podemos simply with the subject of education, I will give the reason to Mrs Iriarte, who is a shame that almost 20% of Basques think that the Sun revolves around the Earth, which gives a measure of the education we have, which, by the way, is the most expensive of all Spain, and it is clear that a reform of that education is needed. And, in line with what the representatives of Podemos said, we are in favour of concerts in education and health, and in everything. What is strange to me is that you, so in favour of the social initiative, the third sector, are opposed to this. Or are they only in favour of social initiative and the third sector when they are their own? Perhaps you should ask this question. And, in any case, we have attended a debate that is false, false from the beginning, false in the excuses. Because it is not true that a tax reform was being carried out eight months ago. The previous tax reform was being evaluated eight months ago. That evaluation ended before the summer, and after the summer came a proposal from the partners of the government (the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party), proposing a tax reform that we did not like, and we propose to modify it. I don't remember Bildu proposing to change that tax reform that was coming. What Bildu was proposing was a change of government, not an alternative to budgets. Yes, yes! They said, "Let the PSOE come out of the government," which I don't know why we've been here for two hours all of a sudden and everyone's been forgotten. We all read this: the PSOE had to leave the government, and I suppose you would join the government. I suppose you'll join the government! Our greatest success in this negotiation has not been the fiscal issue. Our greatest success is that you have not entered the government, you have not managed to get Mr Erkoreka to be in jail... And to us, as this seems good for the Basques, apart from the stability that bothers them so much... It seems good for the Basques that there is stability, that we continue to go better gradually. We would like to go faster, better, we would have liked to change the budget much more, but, Mr Martínez, it is not our budget by far, eh! Not by far. But not by far! I'll tell you what. I'll tell you what. Another thing is that each one assumes politically what interests him or what he wants. We want Basque citizens to be better off. We are going to achieve this with the tax reform that we have done, we are going to achieve it with the amendments that are going to be adopted. And it also does not suit us and of course I will defend that Mr Erkoreka remains in Vitoria, Bermeo, and does not go to jail.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-11.u33	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was twelve o'clock in the afternoon and forty-three.
