ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u0	Good morning, everyone. I'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "Modia, the parliamentary members of the Basque Team Carmelo Barrius Barroja, with regard to the standards of the Eucadian Archive in regard to the judicial documents. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the party that made the proposal is Mr. Barrio, representing the Basque Potula, to present himself to him and take his stand.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u1	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all and to all. Counselor. Well, shortly, since there is an agreement in relation to the motion that has been presented following the question that was raised in the House the other day in relation to...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u2	Please! The whole meeting has begun, silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u3	Thank you, President...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u4	Please! Silence. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u5	Thank you, President. We said that, with regard to the question raised the other day with the Councillor for Culture concerning the judicial documentary heritage, well, we have tabled this motion and we have reached a general agreement on the issues. The other day it was already said – I said from the rostrum – that what was being sought with this inquiry, and with this motion in its case, was the improvement of the management of the judicial documentary heritage, ultimately of the historical documentary heritage of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, after having done analysis of documentation, or work of what had been the records of the judicial purge boards, in relation to the criteria for the destruction of documents belonging to hearings, to investigating courts..., to Euskadi courts. That meeting had been held since 2006, but, well, there was one thing we identified as improving. The study of the documentation of these two parliamentary initiatives in the last legislature had identified the need for what we said and what had been identified as designing, developing, adopting policy criteria, or documentary criteria or guidelines governing evaluation, conservation and destruction in the case of judicial documentation. Well, there had been an analysis, there had been an analysis of documentation, there had also been a consultation with experts, and it was quite clear that the need for new criteria and guidelines was identified. And, of course, we were concerned about the functioning of the purge board, its composition, and that was evident in the substance of the interpellation. Well, on the Board of Extrusion participates the Judicial Administration, participates the Basque Government with its reports, theoretically, with its presence, with its decision-making capacity... In other words, the Basque Government has competence in documentary heritage, and in that regard it has much to say, and it still has to say much more in relation to the application of those criteria and guidelines with which the purge board must operate. We also identified in the minutes that one of the meetings was not attended by the representative of the Basque Government. At one of the minutes of the eleven meetings that this purge board has held, some even the Basque Government has been allowed not to attend. Well, there are things that need to be fixed, and they certainly have to do with the methodology, they have to do with the composition of the purge boards and they have to do with the theory of work. Let us say that it is the responsibility of the Basque Government to preserve the documentary heritage, the historical documentary archive, and, in that sense, in an area where decisions are taken to destroy documentary heritage or documents, in theory, we must work in another way, and we understand that these are the keys. Furthermore, the Basque Government is legally responsible for safeguarding and preserving the judicial documentary heritage of Euskadi. The destruction and preservation of judicial documentation is regulated by Royal Decree 937/2003 of 18 June 2003 on the modernization of judicial archives throughout the State. This rule created the status of the judicial documentation purge boards, one for each autonomous community, under the respective higher courts of justice. Extrusion boards shall be responsible for identifying all judicial, civil, criminal or contentious files which, because they have been completed, prescribed or expired, must be destroyed, unless, as is clearly stated in Article 17.3, the administration competent in the matter of historical heritage makes a binding report on those records or judicial documents which, by virtue of their historical or documentary value, must be preserved. There it is, here's the performance, which must be the performance of the Basque Government. Article 14.3 of the above-mentioned decree therefore requires that a senior archival technician, appointed by the competent administration in the field of historical heritage, be convened on each extrusion board. That is to say, finally, it is up to the Department of Culture of the Basque Government, in this case as competent administration in the field of historical and artistic heritage, to demand from the Administration of Justice those dossiers which must be kept for their cultural historical value. Well, this function of preserving the historical cultural heritage, the documentary heritage, does not belong to the Judicial Administration, which does not manage historical archives, nor does the General Administration of the State have to give common rules in this regard. That is to say, there is work to be done by the Basque Government in relation to this part of the judicial heritage, of the judicial documentary heritage to which we have referred. Well, I was referring the other day to a series of summaries that could have been destroyed based on the records of the purge boards. Well, I made a reference the other day that I won't repeat again. Some say those documents are, but, as a result of the analysis of the purge boards, those documents are not. They may be stored somewhere else, but they're certainly not... At this time, the analysis of the records of the purge boards would qualify a number of very important documents as destroyed. Well, if you're somewhere else, well, welcome be. But the point is that there is a clear need for specific guidelines or criteria in relation to the functioning of the purge boards and their decision-making. The Culture Advisor himself said the other day that "since the formation of this Executive has been a matter that has attracted the interest and concern of both our Department of Culture and Linguistic Policy and the Department of Justice, to which it is also competent. It's logical, it's a topic that the two departments are working together." Indeed, this is the definitive impetus for these guidelines and regulations to be put in place. He also said that "in any case, he wanted to point out that this Government considers it necessary to make some changes in the performance and composition of this board." That is, one of the fundamental elements. "More than twelve years have passed since its creation, and given the evolution that document management has experienced during this time, we believe that an integral model of management of judicial documentation is necessary." And that is why Mr. Zupiria also said that "changes are necessary both in terms of methodology and in terms of the composition of the board itself, and as a result of the detection of this need the Basque Government is working on this issue". Well, that is the fundamental element, and that is why a compromise amendment to the motion has been tabled. I believe that it complements it, with the contributions of all the parliamentary groups, to which I am grateful for their constructive contribution. I believe that progress has been made in the agreement on the compromise amendment, which calls on the Department of Culture, as well as the Department of Labour and Justice, to draw up this proposal and forward it to the Extrusion Board to update the criteria for the removal of judicial documentation. And that in this process will intervene external voices, authorized in the field of archivistics, in the management (I realize that there is an error: it puts "monumental", but it is "documentary"), in the documentary management and the preservation of the judicial documentary heritage. Well, that's a mistake, which I ask the House services to correct. It's "documentary management." We've been wrong about the writing. Also, as a second point, it is considered necessary that these criteria and procedures be based on an assessment of the documents which are materialized in the establishment of the schedule for the preservation of the documentary series, in relation to the methodology, on the question of working by the Basque Government. This document evaluation and document selection will give priority to the preservation of those related to human rights and historical memory (something that came as input from another parliamentary group). In addition, the Basque Government, in collaboration with the purge board, will study the most appropriate measures for the proper preservation, good condition of the unscathed files and the summaries of the purged ones, in order to ensure the preservation of all of them in a more appropriate manner. There is also a need for improvement in this facet, and some parliamentary group has identified it and brought it as a reference element, and of course it could not be ignored. And in this meantime, in this work iter, the purge board is recommended to suspend processes of deletion of the documentation, until such an update of criteria and procedures occurs. Finally, this is the initiative that is definitely presented as a compromise amendment to the motion tabled by our group. We understand that this is obviously an interesting issue in technical matters, but also in the preservation and preservation of the documentary heritage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u6	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, together the representative of Podemos, Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u7	Good morning, Mrs. Tejeria. Good morning, Councilman. Good morning, everyone. Parliamentarian Carmelo Barrio, Christian Democrat of the PP, tabled a motion for an inquiry, concerning criteria for the expulsion of the Euskadi file in relation to judicial documents. He certainly has his interest, and we thank him for his insistence on the motion. It is of interest because Mr Barrio does not refer to administrative procedures for the administrative management of the extrusion of judicial documents that are legally developed in Euskadi under Law 7/90 of 3 July on the Basque cultural heritage and its management, or more specifically to Decree 232/2000 of 21 November on the Rules of the Archives and the rules governing the documentary heritage of the Basque Country, or finally Decree 174/2003 of 22 July on the organization and operation of the archival system of the Basque public administration. Or, in the field of the Spanish state, Decree 937/2003, on the modernization of the judicial archives, or Organic Law 15/99, of 13 December, in relation to the protection of personal data. Mr Barrio does not raise technical-administrative problems. Establish criteria and guidelines to ensure that decisions taken by the Judicial Execution Board of the Basque Autonomous Community are adequate. It plans to avoid the destruction of documents relevant to the purposes of historical, judicial, scientific, political or sociological research, for which it is proposed to use experts. Well, we agree on Elkarrekin Podemos. We are not talking about technical procedures, but about criteria in terms of ideas, ideological criteria, political criteria, cultural criteria, which have to do with the culture that is perceived in our democracy, and, indeed, we cannot agree more. What are the draining joints doing? Determine the exclusion of procedural or governmental files from the cultural heritage, or their transfer to the competent administration in the matter of historical heritage. This is also published in minutes, as noted by parliamentarian Carmelo, and in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country, or on the Justice website www.justizia.net. However, section 55.2 of the Spanish Historical Heritage Act, which prohibits the destruction of documents with evidentiary value of the rights and obligations of individuals and public entities, must always be taken into account. Well, this is, after all, the collective historical memory. These are the files, these are the court proceedings... That is why the criteria for draining documents from judicial proceedings are important, because at least some of them have to do with organizing, knowing our historical memory well, and this must be done well in terms of democratic criteria, and criteria for respect for human rights with real criteria. And it has left me an opportunity for a very brief reflection of some criteria. We want our children, and the children of our children, to know the truth of our history. We want you to know that ETA killed more than 800 people between 1959 and 2011, who extorted, kidnapped, terrorized thousands of people in this country. But before, during and after ETA, thousands and thousands of honest people, with their judicial proceedings opened or closed, were killed, imprisoned, tortured, extradited and banished. All this after the war that ended in 39. Thousands of families of nationalists were broken, the silence took over the country. Thousands of socialists, anarchists, communists, Republicans and trade unionists were imprisoned, shot, tortured, banished, and their families kept silent (the silence of fear) and were broken. His judicial records exist. It was attempted, by the most violent coercive methods, to nullify the national consciousness of belonging to a community, the Basque community, its language, its culture and its symbols. More than 5,000 citizens of this country were arrested again and again and tortured in the struggle for freedom, before, during and after the existence of ETA. I want these documents, as Mr Barrio proposes, not to be destroyed; to be studied, to be known and to be investigated. And until just ten years ago, I remember, the Law 52/2007 of 26 December on Historical Memory has not existed. With the political transition to democracy, the forces of repression were not dissolved; the political-social police who arrested us were not cleansed of fascists; the cadres of the Army's General Staff were not cleansed, with authoritarian, uneducated and fascist figures in their dome, who dreamed of coups d'état in the flag room, as General Gutiérrez Mellado, Adolfo Suárez and Carlos Garaikoetxea himself were well aware at the time. Those muds brought these muds. Like Mr. Barrio, I want our children, our children, the children of your children to know the historical memory of our people, not to destroy the police files that explain it, to listen to the victims, to the murderers who have considered that what they did was wrong, to listen to the police who tortured... That they know enough, not to not sleep, but not to forget what happened, because it happened like this. Elkarrekin We can support the establishment of criteria and guidelines in the purge of judicial documents; the request for expert opinion, as well as the parliamentarian Carmelo Barrio, to historians and also to accredited human rights associations; and how many associations and platforms have to do with the Historical Memory Act. My fellow Members of Parliament (Edurne, Lander, Iñigo, Julen, Tini) were born after the dictatorship. They have political awareness, resistance awareness and democratic struggle. People need to know the things that have happened, how they have happened, who are responsible, and don't repeat it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u8	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Protect the representative of the EH team, Your Honor, Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u9	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, Mrs. President. It's true that when I saw this proposal, I didn't have any trouble planning on what it was, what it meant, what it really meant, what it was to be, nothing to do, and, as it were, to give us our support to this proposition. But before we did that, we did one thing: we went to the judges with certain questions, to find out whether what was present in this proposition was sufficient, or that it should be proposed more, to improve that proposition, considering what the work of the judge is for, and what business he has in it. The work of the Junta is very concrete, and has no strange thing behind it. What he does is to look at what is to be kept and what is to be thrown, and how and what they are to be set up for the purpose of this work. This is what happens in any house: when things are to be cast out, we examine what is useful and what is not; and, according to this, distribution is made, some things are preserved, and others are thrown out. But when I went to ask this question, the judges told me that it was only a crime and only one, and that it was a jurist. That is to say, it was only considered in order to do that, whether the crime was prescribed or was finished, how the execution was, and whether things were finished or not. And when I saw this, I really thought that it was necessary that there should be other crickets, and other crickets. And the judges said that their crickets were strictly technical, that this commission was a very technical composition, because on that commission the prosecutors, letters, and judges are all alone, and that they need them to see the different crickets. And considering this, I was also told that it was very important to do so, but when you decide to keep something, it's important that you keep it. And right now, all these things are in an industrial pavilion and there's not enough resources to keep things well. Therefore, after we have spoken to the judges, I have to say that we spoke to Aer Urire, he is the President of that Junta, and also with Juan Louis Ibarus, who is responsible for all this, the critics proposed by our view. Our correction, as it were, is agreed with this jurist, because we have transferred their critics to this plan. Now I see that what we plan is received, and that it is contained in that correction which we have proposed to ourselves, at the second and third point. Indeed, there is a certain word expressed by the judges; We must "request" them, we cannot "request" them. And that's already taken. But to my surprise, even if we all agree, conclude the text, and see that the original proposition with our text was better, what I have seen this morning is that we can't sign this British transaction, when I have come to this parliament that Mr. Carmelo Barrio has told us so. And the truth is, I'm surprised... Well, I'm not surprised, I'm not surprised, but I do have to make it clear, Mr. Barrio: in your transactional amendment, because it improves yours and because you also know that what we put forward has been agreed with the judiciary – in particular with the president of the purge board and with the president of the High Court of the Basque Country, who told us to do so, because it's your interest to do so – you pick it up, you introduce it into the transactional amendment, and you suddenly tell me that you can't sign with us..., not because you don't want to, because on top of that you tell me that you would be willing to do it, but because there's someone above, a kind of gentleman who watches over everything, who forbids you to sign or agree with Euskal Herria Bildu. But it does not forbid you to take what Euskal Herria Bildu does and introduce it in the amendment. And then I'm gonna tell him... I had no intention of making a controversy of this point, because it seems to me that when there are things that, as we say in Bilbao and Bizkaia, have a basis, then we have to do them, and this I will grant to you which has a basis. But, of course, the problem is that you introduce ours as if it were yours, as if it were from the other groups, and you tell me to support it. And we will support him, in due course we will support him. We shall see later, in the vote, whether we have to ask for something specific or not. We'll see about that. But, man, as you strongly urge people – you love to urge the Basque Government, I don't know who and I don't know which one – so I urge you to grow up. Let's get a little mature, let's get out of babysitting and get out of weird little things. Because, look, we and we, that we are so critical of the People's Party, that we know what's going on in the People's Party, that we talk about corruption, that we see how things are going – because I know that I'm going to come with these now, and then I'm going to get a little ahead of you – because we wouldn't have had a bigger problem, because when one thing has the significance of this, for what it's for, we wouldn't have had a problem signing with you, despite everything we think of you. But you continue to remain in the past, you continue to remain in this situation, and I therefore urge you to mature. And I also urge you to do something else. Look, you've made a proposal that, as I was saying, has a little basis. So make more proposals on a sound basis. Make proposals based on issues that have to do with the rights of prisoners and prisoners, with prison policy, with social justice... , with other questions. Mature in that, mature in the other, and make those proposals, because it turns out that by making those changes we can come to more agreements and we can change things for the better. And do something else: think again and think about getting into the cohabitation talk, that you have to do things among all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u10	Thank you, signor. Basque Socialists, representative of the team, Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Members of the Bureau, councillor, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. For, going back to the present, to the present debate, and going back to the debate before us, I am not going to urge, but I do recommend that, when it comes to reaching consensus, the effort must be everyone's. And for that we have to go back to the debate that we hold at every moment and at the time that we have in the present. And that's where I'm staying, because I'm not going to participate in any more controversy. After Mr Barrio's intervention in the interpellation, the reply of the Councillor of Culture, and the interventions that have been and have preceded me, I am not going to expand on what is the subject of debate, what is the role of the purge board and what is in what we can help that board in order to contribute to the documentary heritage of our country. We are clear that it is necessary to preserve the judicial documentary heritage, which must be in possession and care, well cared for by the archives of the country, both that of Euskadi and the territorial ones in their case, because it contributes to make our history and to keep our memory. We therefore appreciate the work being done on these boards, and we hope that the transaction will benefit them; even that of maintaining and retaining those documents until a new protocol is established that provides the right consensus for that purpose: to make history and to preserve our memory. Because in the end, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the historical memory of our courts. Some people who are here and who have exercised or exercised the law know that they are a lot of ordered boxes with printed number on the back, shelves full of archival files filled with judicial records that have survived with unequal fortune. These are legacies of small and large lawsuits (divorces, evictions, natural disasters, dismissals, industrial accidents, expropriations, small and large crimes, abominations also of our history). They are personal dramas with names and surnames, historical events, political milestones... all now with a finger of dust and that sepia color that gives off its antiquity. It is the other historical memory (yes, I agree, Mr Uria), the judicial one, which comes to light if it leaks into the judicial archives of any place in Spain. There are cases that have been completed or not completed by the courts, but many of them are roles that are true documentary gems of our history and memory. That's all I'm going to add is that it's from distant historical memory and the most recent as well. That is why I am not going to refer to any specific case or to any specific case, because I fear that a list, if not exhaustive, will aggravate those who are not mentioned in this case. And I do not want to aggravate anyone in this debate, because the unanimity agreed in favour of history and memory, with the preservation of judicial documents in the Basque Country, seems to me not to deserve it. From that other historical memory, the judicial, it is true that the purge board separates and proposes to destroy those judicial records whose usefulness is inversely proportional to the space they occupy, and preserve, preserve those others for their historical documentary value and which have the opportunity to be part of our heritage. And that is the most relevant function, and that is the function that we call for through this compromise amendment to be carried out. First of all, I believe that from the groups we have helped to improve the initial one. We already know what judges and judges and the judiciary are like: they do not like to be urged, but are recommended, because they are another power, and I believe that in this compromise amendment is taken into account. Like the legislature and the executive, the judiciary must not be urged or forced to retain in a certain way or to act in favour of achieving the objective in a way. And I believe that we have found, Mrs Goirizelaia, that common point that some of the judges requested to assist them in this conservation work. Let's see how it is preserved and taken care of without the judiciary forcing the legislature and the executive to say how it has to do it, always finding the best formulas. I will not repeat the transaction because it has been read quickly and slowly by all the interveners. And I will end by saying that for the Basque Socialists this is not a baladian or second-level issue, as Mr Uria said, because finally the archives of a country make history and keep the memory. The memory of the past is, in our case, as peculiar as all these particular cases testify. For some it may be indifferent, but it is not, because it refers us to an issue that is truly central to the lives of citizens and peoples. Collective memory is not trivial, but it provides us with the sense of identity, the awareness of certain values and the ability to project ourselves into the future. That memory is present on the political agenda, and we believe that the contribution we make today by retaining the judicial documents that will form part of that documentary heritage will help the same thing. Because at some point we will have the need for oblivion, even those who have suffered the most, not to speak either in the first person or in the third person or in the second, but we do not want amnesia on the part of the public authorities. I believe that today we all commit ourselves to that cultural, historical, judicial and political obligation, and we do so also with our memory. And that's what I want to end. Collective memory can and must be cared for by public authorities as a precious factor of future coexistence. There are many examples to make a policy of memory, but if we want to have ours, to preserve part of our past, the distant past and the most recent, one of them will be to act to help the board of purge to preserve certain judicial documents that have an authentic cultural, historical, research, political or social value. Perhaps one day in the real future we will end up debating and voting on some proposal by making some rules in this regard, in which we no longer argue, and this collective memory that is intended to work through the preservation of what are judicial documents is not the subject of conflict, but of agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Eubertarians, Mr. Barbarese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u13	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Congressmen, Mr. Chief, good morning. Well, the truth is, I'm not going to focus on historical memory or prison politics. I'm going to talk specifically about the purge court and the archival matter. And, well, the truth is that it must first be stressed that the motion we are debating at this first point of the day is of common sense, and that it coincides in part with the intentions stated by Mr Zupiria in the question that precedes this motion. Two things are called for in this motion of origin, namely that the guidelines governing the purge of documents be established, and that the work of purge is paralyzed (we recommend it, we do not urge it) until such guidelines are implemented. I dare say that all groups agree with these assertions, and that is why we have reached a fairly broad agreement, with the contributions of the rest of the groups. The chief physician explained during the past week how this laundry court works, and I will not repeat, of course, because we have access to transscription. It was represented in these explanations that there was a way, which each observer works through his life, starting from the files in the offices of the courts. And on the way there is room for every intersection that each brief meets, if there is room enough to develop a new regulation in which the contents of the documentation will be discussed and received as purpose. As the head physician described, in the future integral management, all phases of documentation will be defined, defining all periods beforehand according to the interests of each brief. Size-work is the integral management, but the compass of innovation and efficacy points to it as the purpose. These days I have had the opportunity to speak with Mr Imanol Agote, who is the Director of Heritage of the Department of Culture and Linguistic Policy, and the truth is that the substantive work done by the Government in the field of heritage and judicial conservation is intense. So in the lines of work regarding conservation the overwhelming task, because what is coming is a paradigm shift. And I want to explain it graphically, so that we can understand where the Government's efforts are focused. Let's imagine that we have a freezer arch in which we have a hundred packs of food. The information, the way in which they are currently grouped and labelled, is: date of cooking and type of cooking (are the fried, the stews, the raw...). What we want to do, the parameters we want to include, are the expiration and the type of food. That is to say, that labelling, that form in which they are grouped, is more descriptive, and in this way in the purge let us know what interests and what does not interest. Transferring this metaphor to the judicial archival sphere, the current logic in the organization of the series is as I said: we have dossiers corresponding to a particular court, to a particular year, and grouped by branches of law (I believe that in total there are nineteen). And this must be improved, so that the file will tell us about its interest in being kept. There must be a more detailed documental evaluation (this is a key term, documental evaluation), which results in a conservation calendar, where documents are grouped by functions and not by organizational structure, which is what is currently happening. Since there are crimes and crimes of special interest to us in the elimination of files, those mentioned by Mr. Barrio in his inquiry to the councillor (several murders of ETA and Triple A, set them as an example), it is necessary to articulate the form and procedure of distinguishing, as he said before, the grain of straw. There is no other way to make an effective purge. Make that labelling more descriptive and practical. And that's where the paradigm shift I mentioned earlier is, and that's the direction in which I know the Basque Administration is walking. This is undoubtedly a very complex model change, and it is requiring and will require a lot of work on the part of the Government. Work that should be enriched by knowledge and the contribution of different areas of knowledge, such as heritage conservation and justice, since integrated document management is synonymous with removing computer barriers and integrating administrative processes with an overall vision, with a process vision. I know he's in that Eusk0, because I've just been talking to them, and they're going to have a great deal of work to do in the future, as I've heard." The Spanish government seems to be a little behind, but, well, ours is getting a little lighter. So, as we recommend at the second point of the midway, it is perfectly reasonable to interrupt this process, this spurgling or cleaning process, though there were some clartic guidelines, as the Director of Ondar suggested or recommended on May 7th. And finally, two small things to discuss. We don't know how the translation is for the sake of euphoria, but we don't go into cordon sanitarians or Tinel exercises, we don't have any difficulty in agreeing with any man in this law. And finally, for my part, because I wanted to make a small homage for those persons and citizens who had been killed by Triple A. For them, my last words and confession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u14	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. Passing on the answers, Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u15	Yes, thank you, President. With your permission, from the seat. And I don't know if to apologize for my immaturity. I don't think so. I think I've grown up. Look at how I've matured, how I can handle Mrs. Goirizelaia and don't even mutate, can you? While I am voting in favour of the initiative in which we have all participated and understood that progress must be made in that direction, I think there is some of that: I have matured I think quite. Let's see, I've identified a problem, needs that the Administration seems to be, had also identified but hadn't revealed. I identify the problem, I make it clear by bringing an inquiry and a motion; I get an agreement that seems to be unanimous in relation to a need to establish criteria and guidelines where those criteria and guidelines are scarce... Man, I think it's a symptom of maturity, of course! And, above all, I say again that Mrs Goirizelaia's angers, if in the end they are accompanied by the understanding that one when working gathers the arguments of others and their positions... And you already know that the proposer in these cases is the one who manages your initiative, and who can understand, can collect the contributions of other parliamentary groups, translate them and then manage the initiative. Indeed, I believe that it is going to be an initiative that will be voted for by all the parliamentary groups, unless you now break down, but I believe that it is the fundamental, the fundamental element: there is a need, there is an identification of the problem, and the House adopts a parliamentary agreement to urge the government to do a number of things. I think that is the fundamental element. You of course – I am not going to get involved – have then mixed that issue, or that parliamentary procedure, or that pose or that way of negotiating with me to be angry with me, and to tell me a number of issues... Well, I'll vote in favour. Vote in favour of the initiative that I have put forward, where I have put things that you have contributed, and that is the fundamental element. And you're talking about maturity? Well, I don't know. And he speaks of maturity by asking us to participate in the Ponencia de Paz y Convivencia. You already know, precisely you and your group, what would be the best way for us to participate in the Ponencia de Paz y Convivencia. You have the key, precisely because of the lack of maturity that characterizes you, by not condemning ETA's actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u16	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Anybody else want to get a word? Mr. Uria? Mr. Uria, don't you say a word? Yeah? Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u17	Bai. Yeah, just a little comment. This interpellation, which is a simple interpellation, this motion that Mr Barrio has tabled, which is an interpellation of the simple, to understand us, which has in a very short time aroused the consensus of the five political groups in the Chamber, would not attempt to fall into what we call the administrative culture of the institutions. Normally the Parliament, the government, municipalities, departments, the board of purge itself, have a tendency, we tend to organize the culture of the management of rights in administrative form, in the form of norms, in the form of programs... It's probably not the only way. We have tried to contribute, and we want to stress this, that the management of the culture of social rights also has to do with criteria. That's what we call the form-content dialectic. It is good to have administrative cultures to objectively organize rights and accessibility to rights, but it is also good to have rights criteria to administer them. This simple law, this non-legislative proposal, this simple motion, is intended to encourage the junta (in this case, vasca) to purge judicial documents to have criteria for the culture of rights to purge documents, not just technical and administrative criteria. Just that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u18	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Anybody else want to take the word? Anyone else? Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u19	Yes, very short and very brief, with your permission. Yellow neighborhood, zorionak. If you've matured enough, you still have a rat, but I'll congratulate you, because, well, what you say is that you're doing it. Well, that's all. Keep it up, and see if we can get it to the end of the road by making proposals – as I said – that will allow us to move forward in terms of rights and freedoms.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u20	Thank you, signor. Now that the debate is over, we'll vote for the Basque popular, the Basque Socialists, the half-correction signed by the Podemos and Eukobertians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the compositions, 68; the votes given, 70; the opponents 70; the opponents are 0; white, 0; abstentions 0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u21	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Second point on the subject list: "To discuss these following undertakings at once, and to take up the final resolution: "The Moment, introduced by the members of the Congress of the Otero Gabor trees, in relation to the judicial proceedings which are taking place in the Iberdronla Company. "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary group of people together, to examine the collections of energy which have been wronged, to control, and to make up for them." Mr. Otero, it's yours to introduce the word to show up and get rid of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u22	Good morning, everyone. Today, last week, we've come with a motion from the interpelation around Iberdron. It seems to me that the power which gigantic companies such as the Iberdronla have accumulated is extremely prejudicial to transparency, to the respect of rules, and to the democratic control of corporations. So I don't have the list of repeated abuses, but the list has been recalled by the introduction of today's initiative. We clearly find that the Transnational companies must be restrained, bound up, become, from a machine of profit, general interest, and institutions which respect the basic human rights. And that, today and here, is not guaranteed. There's enough work in our country to control these companies, nothing to say about what happens during the international process. As a result of the interaction of the past week, different departments could be opened, because the subject has a lot of handles. Today we are bound by a proposal of the two legislatures. Together Podemos, with large companies, proposed search and return mechanism around the peoples and the institutions of the country. As for us, we want this legislature to be concerned about the results of transnational corporations. But above all, we come with a proposition that can be made, a builder, and a proposition. In fact, the international processes of eupska enpres are already involved in the development of the international processes of the eucalyptics, the excesses, the environmental mistakes, or the inundations of human rights, and the mechanism of control. In order to develop this work, because it is not yet begun, from international experience, we propose to produce the influences which the euscal internationalization brings to an international centre, where social movements, organizations, corporations, co-operatives, co-operatives, socialonomys, and interrogators would participate. We think that what we require is neither caprice nor levity. It seems to us that it is already well-documented by foreign institutions, both by the hand of the several communities of the world, or by the hand of the rectors of the United Nations. It is clear that, along with the development of neoliberalism, abuse, rights have come, environmental damage, etc. Enpresek, kritiken aurrean, kanpainekin propaganda, alde battik, eta, aldehyde beasts, "gizarte-erantzukizun korporatiboa" mekanismoarekin were ntzuten dute, bathe ikusi da ez de la nahikoa. Because corporate social responsibility is not enough, because it is not binding, just as it is binding and enforceable as agreed in trade treaties. That is, tough, executive and binding law for business; soft, voluntary law for human rights. In corporate corporate social responsibility reports, with their codes of ethics, good practices, there are apparently no human rights violations. Everything seems to indicate that we should be calm. Something that contrasts a lot with the vision coming from the other side. So who should we give reason to? Who should we support? Who should we believe? Our proposal seeks that we analyze the two perspectives, that we contrast the two versions, and that we do not hide the reverse of internationalization. And above all, that we begin to build effective mechanisms so that the people concerned can have a chance to defend themselves. That's what you're asking for, no more or less, and it's something that is gradually being put on the table everywhere. Catalonia is working on it, France has passed a law for the control of internationalized companies, in Holland there is beginning to be trials of transnationals for bad practice abroad, United Nations works in a binding international treaty for the control of transnational corporations... And here? To illustrate what I'm saying let me read you a part of Friends of the Earth's assessment of French law, and it says: "For some time now" it is seen that "volunteer approaches to corporate responsibility and accountability are not effective. France has adopted a binding law covering all human rights violations and creating binding obligations for parent and subsidiary companies throughout the supply chain. "Companies (...) must assess and address the negative impacts they have on people and the planet in annual public surveillance plans. Impacts include those linked to their own activities, those of companies under their control and those of suppliers and subcontractors with whom they have an established business relationship." And I set an example. Do you remember Rana Plaza in Bangladesh? More than 1,100 people died from a collapse of a ruinous factory where subcontractors from, among others, El Corte Inglés and Mango worked. Did something happen to them? No, no, They came out of the rositas. And with these kinds of mechanisms it could have been avoided. This is what French law tells us, even if it has its shortcomings: responsibility throughout the supply chain, including subcontracts. That's why big companies have fought hard, to lower the content of the law and to keep the UN treaty from succeeding, because they know what they're doing. So I leave you two questions: What does this suggest, and why are you not willing to do anything here? For though it seems strange to us, Pulalus, Sociists, and Jelza, have not made any corrections, I think this means that you will vote against them. I don't know what you're going to explain to us, but your attitude seems incomprehensible to us. I mean, why don't you guys agree? Don't you worry about what's going on? Aren't you interested in evaluating the influences that internationalizes? Whose orders are you in? Are you under the orders of the citizens, or under the orders of the senate? So today they may be able to overthrow this initiative, but we will continue to insist, because not by trying to hide the reality it will cease to exist, nor will it cease to exist because Basque diplomacy hides all this in the plan of internationalization of the Basque industry, zeroen hurtima bat da gaur lehendakaria hemen ez egotea. Gaur mila goreneko euskal diplomaziaren delegaziburu giza dago Kolonbian eta hau a bobbo y plaillo erakutsi duzue, Argia n, El Correo n, leku guztietan, Basque Country gora, Basque Country behera. So the trip has been announced with a suggestive title: "Colombia, new scenario for Basque companies". He travels in the delegation Arantxa Tapia, travels the Secretary General of Foreign Action, travels more than twenty-five representatives of Basque companies, and the delegation heads the delegation itself lehendakari. This gives a good indication of the relevance given to this trip in favor of the external deployment of the Basque company. That's right, there are those who don't travel. They do not travel Basque trade unionists, nor do they address the situation of Colombian trade unions on the agenda; Basque NGOs working in Colombia have not been invited, nor will Colombian NGOs be heard. Only companies looking for profits abroad, and without looking at the context. The world as an open field for business, and the consequences on the ground, so, if that... now total after, right? And the agenda gets attention too. The agenda includes a meeting with leaders of Colombian institutions and entities dedicated to innovation, transport, energy, business development...; includes bilateral meetings with various ministers of the Colombian Executive; includes meetings with representatives of Basque companies based in Colombia. But we have doubts: Will the situation of systematic violation of human rights in Colombia be addressed? Will the deaths of community and trade union leaders still occur almost daily? Do you not believe that it is important that official delegations include various actors and that the agendas envisaged include human rights analysis? Or is the Colombian peace process understood only as an opportunity for the capture of markets by Basque companies? I just wait for your answer and we'll talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u23	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Together the representative of the Podemos, Mr Martínnez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u24	Thank you. Good morning. Well, we are discussing together a motion by Euskal Herria Bildu and a proposal by our parliamentary group, and a compromise that we have agreed between the two groups. On the one hand, we show our concern about the abusive practices of the company Iberdrola, which we have been talking about for a few days, and we also talk about a subject that we have already talked about in committee, taboo, which is the role of Basque companies, or companies based in Euskadi, rather, in their activities abroad. And we present it at a worrying time, when citizens are concerned about abuse of power, corruption. And I say abuse of power because these companies we're talking about (Iberdrola...) are unfortunately the real power. We are also at a time when these companies need to continue to win, and they do so out of dispossession, by marketing our public services, in which they obviously win. They also win with the price-fixing system of light. And besides, not content with these kinds of profits, they also corrupt the political system to keep winning. And besides, not happy with it too, they continue with systematic light cuts, which are only avoided with money from the public coffers, paying the bills of our citizens who cannot cope with them. On the one hand, we demand a clear proposition in this proposition: It's a question of the parliamentary officials and directors of the Iberdorla, who are willing to commit criminal crimes against the market and consumers, and the National Courts in court against the prosecution admitted by the National Court to the Dictate of the Republic. It's very simple. Typeu y justo: "Un mentina claro de la máxima institinium de Euskadi, que muestre su preocupacion por los abouss de emcompana vasca." But let's go beyond that, and I imagine some of the reactions that's going to happen. We're asking him to do a free study in six months' time, to introduce himself to the whole company of social eupkal systems on the family's incomes of energy. We've got to record the misdemeanor charge at those times. And we also ask Red-Mingerk to create the proper mechanism for re-establishing those numbers. And we ask, we ask for a quantitative report, to know what we have paid extra to these companies. Because they're companies... , in this case Iberdrola, sanctioned and fined, investigated at this time, but we think that from the Basque Government we have to take one more step and try to recover for the public coffers what has been overpaid. Because I believe, and I don't think I'm doing demagoguery, that it wouldn't be so bad for the Basque Government, exercising its sovereignty as a public institution, to dialogue with that company, which supposedly has a corporate social responsibility strategy, to somehow recover that money. It does not have to be monetary; it could be with a moratorium on the bills that our Basque citizens cannot face, and we would not have to face those bills from public institutions. Yesterday a very limiting document from the GIR was presented, to control these payments. Let us also act with those who abuse prices, with those who abuse citizens. And the second part of this transaction that we have presented today, and within what Euskal Herria Bildu proposed and we share, is a concern for the fulfilment of human, labour and environmental rights, in the exercise that our Basque companies do, or the companies that are based in Euskadi better said, abroad. Because it's true, and I know they're going to tell me, that we're talking about SMEs, and SMEs will have a definite role that wouldn't be wrong either, but we're talking about corporations, like Iberdrola. Corporations, as James Petras said, are the dominant institutions of our time. And this time the debate is brought with the example of Iberdrola, the example of an almost poetic license. Because of the example of Iberdrola we could talk in Bolivia: we could talk about almost 50% of the staff that was fired when Iberdrola bought the energy company of Bolivia, by the way happily recovered by the government of Evo Morales. Ask, if not, for the example of Iberdrola also the Brazilian indigenous people, displaced by the activities and by the expulsion of lands of large hydroelectric plants, including some with the participation of Iberdrola, which even the Brazilian Government has had to stop. Or ask in Oaxaca, Mexico, the citizenry for the purchase of political wills condemned even by Mexican justice. Ask for that example. Because what we asked for, and was said by our colleague Mikel Otero, is that within these great values of the Basque Country 2020 strategy there is also the fulfilment of human rights, labour rights and environmental rights, beyond great headlines. Because it is true that this week there is a trip to Colombia, and I think that, in addition to doing business, we could worry about what is happening in Colombia, about the problems with the peace process, about the systematic violation of human rights in that country. Because are the murders of trade union leaders (yes, trade union leaders) and community leaders going to be put on the agenda for dialogue when it comes to making trade agreements? I don't think so. And if it's put and brought in a document that it's set up, that's how we'll recognize it. Or will the role of foreign companies, some Europeans, some states, that operate in the country and that are supportive of what is keeping the conflict going? Or is the Colombian peace process just seen as a business opportunity? I don't think we can look the other way when things like that happen. I also believe that this Parliament adopted a non-legislative proposal calling on the Government to take such measures. Because we also think that what we are asking is to improve the external image of Euskadi, and that it could be a vanguard image in external action, in defence, in addition to Basque trade and tourism, in defence of human rights. Because work is also under way in the United Nations: there is a working group that is working on an international treaty to control, within the framework of international law, the activities of transnational corporations. I think it would be a nice sign to the world that Euskadi was a vanguard in that sense, but I think some are more comfortable leaving colleagues alone with their business. Because – said also comrade Mikel Otero – in France a decaffeinated law has been passed, it is true, but a law at the end of the day, which is a great step forward so that transnational corporations and French companies with activities abroad have to be accountable to the French public authorities for their activities. I think we still live here in another world. Or closer, in Catalonia, where, after months of work, the creation of a study and evaluation centre on the impact of the role of Catalan companies abroad has been approved. A centre that will also have instruments to ensure compliance with existing human rights legislation, and also an instrument that, as the compromise we have presented, will have the participation of the Government, the Parliament, but also of Catalan civil society. We think, and there is also a document from the Basque Government that goes in that direction, that in order to be consistent in public policies it is necessary for the Basque Government to also focus on business internationalization under other trade and investment formulas. Formulas that, in line with French law and the centre that has been approved in Catalonia, go to democratic control of investments and democratic control over profits; that allow public institutions, in addition to making great plans, to control exports and to control what our companies do. Exports, imports or investments. And also with an objective, according to the public strategy itself, and there is a public strategy of internationalization, but which has to be assumed with values of human rights, of compliance with labour rights, here and abroad, and also of compliance with environmental rights. And let him assume one thing very clearly, which is what we stand for here: that common goods have to stay out of global trade, here and out. We therefore say yes to control and quantify the abuses of Iberdrola, here and abroad, and we also demand the Basque Government to set up a wall and, one way or another, to obtain compensation for the undue charges of Iberdrola. It's not that much to ask, either. It is also important that, without criminalising anyone, because we are not doing so, but that the internationalisation of companies based in the Basque Country should ensure that human, labour and environmental rights are strictly respected. We have a precious tool in Catalonia to be able to learn and to launch it in Euskadi, because we need committed institutions to limit the power of these big companies and to put people once and for all ahead of the profits of these companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u25	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Passing on the turns of the teams that have no corrections, the representative of the Basque Potula team, Mrs López de Ocarariz, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, you've been able to see a demonstration of how, when an initiative doesn't have a route, so we can come here and talk, take out the daily mass, and we expose it. Mr Otero and Mr Martínez, you yourselves have acknowledged that we have not made an amendment because your initiative had not been taken. Mr. Otero in the interpellation, which I have had to reread several times to know exactly how to reconcile what you were saying with what you proposed, and then with the speech you have made here, which we don't know, it's nothing... That is, it is quite complicated: it mixes different energy model variables with certain practices of a company, which is in court and that at the moment there is nothing proven. From all the stock-relationship you listed us in the inquiry we can summarise that everything sentenced to this day is favorable to the company, and that there is a judgment in suspense, that we will have to wait for how it is resolved. An unsolved court case. You novel an interpellation, and interpret it in this rostrum so that it rather seems like a demagogic relief. That's my interpretation, because frankly it's not possible to understand everything you said here. He told us that the headquarters of an energy giant like Iberdrola is located in Bilbao, which has not solved our main energy problems, has not reduced Basque energy dependence, has not extended renewables, has not avoided energy poverty... He also said that the state is the one that puts the most impediments in the world of self-consumption. This simply – and there are exhibitions in this House – is a lie, and you also know it. And since it is a lie and knows it, then do not repeat it again. I don't know, I don't like to hear lies. I don't like lying either. So, I don't know what it's for. As I said, this is a matter, that of Iberdrola, to which I refer, which is to which the initiative referred, which is in court, and there is nothing proven. You certainly contribute and have contributed to the zero development of renewable energies. That has been the case, and I have the impression that they will continue along the same path, contributing to the zero development of renewable energies. I was talking about an initiative put forward by the Socialist Group in this House in 2008, and I am going to tell you what Mr Matute and Mr Larreina were saying, which I do not know whether they belong to your group or not, but today they are in the midst of your ranks. Mr Matute said about Iberdrola – because that initiative came from a possible OPA on Iberdrola, and this Parliament closed ranks around a Basque company – Mr Matute said: "... Apart from the fight that is taking place, it is not the consumers who pay for the consequences of such a debate, whether it is buying in one way or in another way or if it remains as it is, which is what we would like" (2008), that Iberdrola be kept "in the characteristics in which we know it". Mr. Larreina said: It was very important to maintain the headquarters in the Basque Country; he insisted on supporting Iberdrola; moreover, he cried out to create a Basque financial entity, because he understood that that was the perfect tandem (Iberdrola and a Basque financial entity; I don't know if they share it, but I would like to know), and he said... He spoke long and stretched out, like you, and insisted, in every paragraph he said again: Supporting Iberdrola, yes – it is to read it –; supporting industrial projects as a basis for a strong economy, yes; Iberdrola, yes. Hey, and what do you present to us? What motion do you present to us? What motion do you present to us? First he rejects Iberdrola's behavior. He is in the courts, and it is the courts that decide, and in the face of such complaints I will certainly not give his opinion. But the most interesting thing, the most juicy thing, is to create a public center (what do you call chiringuitos? What you call chiringuitos is what you propose: to create a public centre) to assess the effects of the internationalisation of Basque companies. And in this center would be social movements, non-governmental organizations, human rights experts, trade unions, agents of the social economy and solidarity economy, the Ararteko and businesses. Look, it's going to evaluate companies, and it's going to be 1% of the chiringuit. Totally, summarizing, a coven. That's right. Where's the energy concern? Hey, in this motion, where's the energy concern, the one you said Iberdrola didn't bring? Where is that which you have said here – come on, you were also saying it in the interpellation – that we are the last, that we make ridicule with our percentages of renewables? How much have you contributed to that ridiculous? In fact, 99,9 %. And it's also that your strategy is to continue contributing. That's his strategy, because, if not, they should have put him here. What is your energy strategy? What is your position in energy transit? That is what you use as a sword against the Government and against the Government's initiative in this field. It's their opposition, and they do it with renewables. Man, please, a little...! If you are really interested, collaborate, contribute, present an energy transition model, measures – those that you are interested in – and we will talk. Mr. Martinez, just the same. He took out the fan, he talked about everything... The regulation of the electrical social bond is being developed, Mr Martínez. Iberdrola brings that social bonus along with other industries. So, yes, it does. You know that companies will not be able to turn off the light in the event of default without first notifying the Administration, which will report whether it is a vulnerable family or not. The electricians will update these lists weekly (there are already weekly lists of these), which will allow the administrations responsible for social services to identify whether it affects families at risk of social exclusion and to activate the aid envisaged to avoid cutting. In addition, severe, socially excluded vulnerable households have been created, and administrations contribute 50% of the electricity bill and electric marketers will have to contribute to the payment of these bills. Could you do more? Perhaps so, but something is being done and something has progressed. And I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, why do you not care about energy efficiency? The only energy resource that is available to all countries, to all governments, to all administrations: the less we spend, the better. The cheapest and most efficient resource. It doesn't consume, it doesn't generate energy expenditure. That's a cheap social bonus! In energy there is a mandatory maximum, and is to maintain the energy triangle: economic sustainability, environmental sustainability, and ensure twenty-four hours, seven days a week, that supply, month by month and year by year. Remember that in Spain we had 9 billion tariff deficits. They don't exist anymore, they're not a problem anymore. The end of this debt guarantees us to lower the electricity bill, and the firm commitment not to make political, political and economic mistakes again, as they did at other times. We have to tackle the energy transition with rigour, a transition that must be accompanied by technology. No hurry, but no pause. Do not pretend to advance, be pioneers, and then pay the deficits we have accumulated, to advance. I can talk to you about renewables. You said we were being ridiculous, and you have contributed and contributed, and I don't think it's going to be corrected. But you will know that there have been three renewable auctions; that the last, 3,000 megawatts, has gone out to zero euros; that if it had been done without the modification made by the previous government it would have cost us 300 million euros, and that it would have gone to pay the receipt of each of the consumers. That's where we'd have financed it. I therefore believe that important progress is being made. In self-consumption, you said that in Spain we are the worst state... I don't know how you said it. Yeah, he said we're the state that puts the most impediments in the world to self-consumption. Look, there are states that haven't regulated self-consumption; so, we've made progress on those. And second, there are states that had regulated self-consumption, they're modifying it, and they're copying a lot of what's regulated in Spain, because there was a deficit, and you know it. So, things are being done. We have come to talk about positive things, how to move forward in the energy transition, what measures to implement with a maximum, majority agreement. And you should also be in that position, if you are really concerned about the objectives we must achieve, to which we have all committed ourselves. I expect that proposal from you. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u28	Thank you, President, and good morning to you all. Look, Mr Otero and Mr Martínez, it is very difficult to discuss this with you. First they write one thing in the initiative that leads to the record; then, Mr. Otero, you talk about another the day you bring the inquiry to Mrs. Tapia, and today you talk about another, putting issues that have nothing to do with either what you write in the text, or what you spoke to Mrs. Tapia, or anything. So, it's very complicated. Therefore, my equal intervention may not serve them at all, because, of course, I have prepared it a little by mixing the Record with the question of the question, but I already have of the problem that exists in Colombia, Venezuela, Mexico and of all this, for, look, not a paragraph, because I understand that you mix everything here, I don't know very well for what. Because what I really believe is that you bring initiatives, and when you see that there is no agreement, that you have no chance of winning it, you do a mix of everything to accuse others of things as pleasant as "business colleagues"...; you are the only defenders of citizens' rights; only you are concerned about human rights, workers and the environment... And then all this mixes it with the RGI, with an official trip (which, if you worry so much, for that are the full of control and ask the affected one), with the violation of rights in countries like Colombia, deaths of citizens, peace processes... Man, I don't know, I'll try to talk about what I thought we were coming to talk about, because with you it's really not that complicated to discuss, it's that very complicated to reach agreements, and we see it debate after debate. So, Mr. Otero was telling us about the list of excesses, of damages generated by the Iberdrola company, profit machine, violation of rights, propaganda campaigns... And in the face of this it seems that there is one part that is concerned and another part that we cover and disguise the policy so that they benefit some. Well, look, Mr. Otero, no. It's just not true. It is that you use this rostrum to lack the truth, to manipulate opinions, to lie about what is happening in the courts, and to politicize what you later do not like to be done. And I say this because, on the one hand, here we are discussing two issues that have a concern it seems common, which is Iberdrola (today plays Iberdrola), but which have two different objects. Because I was surprised by the accumulation of these two initiatives, because I don't think they talked about the same thing. Of course, listening to them, they talked about the same and much more that you have not been able to write in the text. Fifteen days ago I listened attentively, as Mrs López de Ocariz said, to your inquiry, Mr Otero – today I listened to you again with great interest, and you do not cease to surprise me, I say – with the same interest with which I have listened to Mr Martínez. Many things were said in that inquiry. It was recalled that initiative of 2008, adopted unanimously (I do not know if it seems to you to be an important detail), unanimously in this Parliament, which is the most divided and most difficult Parliament to reach unanimity in the world. On that day, the agreement was reached unanimously, and she wanted to start in the same way as Mrs Tapia did the other day. The subject that you bring us here today is a subject that is in the courts, I believe, today, 1 June. A matter that has no sentence; that, therefore, those of us who believe in the rule of law wait for what the courts talk about, and from there we respect what they say, whether we like it or not. And for the time being, the courts haven't talked about this. To this day we have two favourable judgments and an interim suspension of a fine. Precautionary suspension at the request of the National High Court, not the Socialist Party, nor the PNV, nor the Government, nor of who. No, no! From the National Audience, the one you are interested in taking out today, because it goes with Iberdrola, and sometimes you want to hide. The sentences are July 2012 and February 2016, not 1920. I mean, this comes from the day before yesterday. This data to make the context clear, because by hearing you, first, we talk about different topics and live in different worlds. Because, of course, the Socialist Parliamentary Group thinks it is important and interesting that the Basque industry should be able to export out of our mug; not you, because if internationalisation comes out it is negative and you have to worry about everything and everything is fatal, and we are even guilty of what happens to trade unionists in Colombia, nothing more and nothing less. As a country of 2 million inhabitants, see if you think we have influence. They make categorical statements that we certainly do not share, such as the permissiveness of public administrations and the lack of control over public money. They are planning the creation of a public centre to assess the effects of the internationalization of Basque companies. As Mrs López de Ocariz said, it comes from the hands of those who spend the day criticizing the creation of agencies, increasing budgets... And today you propose to us what Mrs López de Ocariz has called chiringuito, taking the jargon more from EH Bildu and also from Podemos, who in this is learning very quickly from EH Bildu, and that of course we are very far from sharing. Mr Martínez, on his initiative, asked us, first, that there is a lack of control from the government. Look, I believe that the Basque public protection system, as we have often said in this rostrum, is a public system in which many autonomous communities are seen, and there is control. There is control of the aid given for the payment of energy bills through the ESAs, through the GIR and also through the energy poverty aid managed by the Red Cross. So, from that report that Mr Martínez says, which you think is so important, I do not know if you know that on a quarterly basis (not every year or at the end of the term, no, not every quarter) the municipalities inform the Basque Government of the amount they have given in terms of aid and the amount that goes in terms of housing aid, energy aid... I therefore believe that the Basque Government has control, because the administration that manages the aid informs the person who gives the budget that that is being done and how it is being done. And then he proposes to us, at the point of the quantification of the charges... I would like to raise, Mr Martínez, how you want to do this. Because, how would we quantify the wrongly charged by the sanctioned companies? Because, of course, defending the interests of citizens is our concern, working for a competition within the framework of legality is our obligation as public representatives, but what you pose sounds very good, like many of the things you raise, but when it comes to putting it into operation I would already like you to tell us how you want to manage this. Because you know – and you, Mr Otero, also know – that neither the price of energy, nor energy in the broadest sense of the word, are the competence of the Basque Government. They know, and they bring this up again. Far from proposing solutions, far from bringing the scheme of system change, they bring it to entangle everyone and end up always accusing the same company. By the way, by the way, a company that, if justice says they're guilty, will have to comply with what the sentence says. A company that seems that at tax level can end up being important in some of the estates. I say! I don't know if we can so openly dispense with Iberdrola and other companies that you...! No, no! Because the accusations you make to this company go far beyond what is left in the minutes of the session, eh! It's just that it's very serious what you say about Iberdrola! So, for now, let the courts speak. And after all this, when I believed that what mattered to them was the energy and energy future of this country, I put forward positive proposals. Then, we socialists could start talking about a social fund of public management financed by energy companies, the elimination of sun tax and the reform of the last decree of energy self-consumption, the revision of the relationship between consumer, marketer and distributor, the increase of the pace of change of meters, the modification of the electric tariff... There are a lot of issues that I think we should start talking about, if we want to solve this problem, because I believe, as I have told you many times, that the subject of the energy debate is on the table, and we should do it in a more responsible way. Energy prices are a matter of concern and concern for citizens, for citizens as a whole, and I think we should work on what we can contribute. And to conclude with one of the things that you said in your first speech, I will say that when a government goes on an official trip, in this case trying to talk about Basque companies outside our borders, it is positive. Being able to get the Basque industry out of our mug is positive. The internationalization of our companies must not always be seen as a negative thing; it cannot be mixed with political processes that are far from what you have brought to speak today. You are very used in this legislature to writing one thing in the texts and defending other things in the rostrum. It's impossible for us to come to an agreement. And you say, "Why have you not tabled an amendment." Does that mean we're going to vote against it? But how can we not vote against it, if, first, it is very difficult to understand what they are proposing! If I read the document, the original text of either of you two, and, first of all, I say I don't understand why we have accumulated it, because I think you don't talk about the same thing, except Iberdrola, which is the common part, but it is very difficult to reach an agreement when you write one thing, you talk about another and you sign another! It is very difficult to reach agreements on energy issues with you, because in the background you are fleeing the real debate, Mr Otero and Mr Martínez. If you want to talk about citizens' rights, of course; that citizens' rights must be shielded, of course; that we must think about everything we can benefit from so that citizens are not increasingly given the bill for light and have the right to pay it, of course. But measures have been put in place here on the subject of energy poverty. And Mr. Martinez said, "It's that the government should have a dialogue with Iberdrola." You're already doing it, Mr. Martinez! There are agreements not to cut the light and water in the winter months, between March and November! It is clear that there has been talk, and not just the Basque Government! Town halls like Bilbao City Hall... He's trying to mediate with the energy companies. So, don't say... What's going on is that I think you guys need to get to the rostrum on June 1st and read what happened on June 1st four years ago. That there are many things this government has done, and many things that remain to be done, but I think they would do us all a favor, to try to agree on something and stop wasting time in many debates..., write down what they stand for and defend what they believe, and don't mix everything up. Because weak favor they do to the human rights of the citizens of Colombia, Mexico and Bolivia, with mixing what they say they care about Iberdrola with judicial sentences that do not exist and with light prices. And they can be put as they please, but they lose all initiatives.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u29	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Geaters, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good morning to all. Even if I have mentioned it before, I now see myself under the same obligation. Very, it's very difficult to get to this tribe and sing like a bell. There's nothing to be compared and when you come here you can see that it's all upside down. And don't explain. These two motives which we are discussing today, rather, motives and other legal proposals, had a title: Iberdron. Or rather: Now the potential problems with the Iberdrol problem with the national audience. Then the two texts have nothing to do with the title, and even if they're prepared for it, the street! Because today, other issues are brought here to discuss. And we are told that he waits for our answer on Mr. Otero's side, but in case, you give the answer first. So it's really strange to get into this. And when one is the last to intervene, then he really doesn't have much to say. I don't know if I'm talking about the title of the motions, about what's going on with Iberdrola, as already mentioned by those who have preceded me in the word... I do not know whether to say that in the two previous cases similar to this the issues have been resolved in favor of the company. I do not know whether to say that the 25 million euros fine that Mr Martínez Zatón has already taken for granted is now invalidated by the National Court itself. I don't know if I'm going to talk about that love that EH Bildu has had for the National High Court and the Civil Guard lately. I don't know if I'm talking about the GIR. I don't know if we're talking about energy poverty aid. I do not know whether to resume previous debates that we have had in this House that you would have to see but that already, according to what you brought us here today, you change completely. So, I don't know, we're going to take either of the two initiatives point by point and we're going to respond, even though they don't really like what we're going to say. Firstly, Mr Martínez Zatón, in paragraph 1 he asks the Government to carry out a quantitative study... But if we asked for this two months ago, and we signed it you, the lords of Bildu, the lords of the Socialist Party and us! If that's already asked for! But then he says: "We have to quantify the undue charges on the part of the electricity companies sanctioned during those periods. But if you run more than the National Court in this case! If it is the National Court itself that has said "Quiet, this fine here until we disassemble in some way all this maraña"! Because the problem is not who alters or who does not alter the system, and that we have also talked about in recent months here. The problem is in the system itself. As long as that system does not change, it will be difficult for us to see it clearly, clearly. But it gives the feeling that nothing is being done here, and if we go to that motion, to that non-law proposal that I am referring to, we will see, one, that things are being done; two, that what you ask here makes no sense; three, that if prices increase for everyone, not just for this company, and, four, that, if this is the case, if at a certain point at the end of this process the National Court itself actually determines that Iberdrola is guilty, I do not believe that it is the Basque Government alone that has to intervene. They have already mentioned it: could intervene the City of Vitoria-Gasteiz, could intervene the City of Bilbao, could intervene the City of Gipuzkoa... I could get a lot of people involved. But I do not think it is the job of this House to determine what the verdicts of the National Court are before this happens, however much so that the National Court now, as an enemy of our enemy, is our close friend. So, as I say, complicated. Bildu's proposition. Man, you should have warned us, Mr. Otero, that your speech, instead of the motion you had put before us, we were going to meet you this morning in the newspaper. Tell us, "Hey, take today's race and get ready for the speech with this text," which is what I did. But if we stick to his points, once again, he says... Look, in the first one we might agree in part: "Parliament expresses its concern at the complaint lodged by the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office". Of course, of course we're worried too. We are, and we would be worried about being any Basque company other than Iberdrola. And we are looking forward to seeing what the end of all this is, because, being Iberdrola, it can actually have many more implications for everyone; not only for the Basque Government, as Mr Martínez Zatón said, but for any user of this company's services. In the second point it says: "Parliament rejects many of the conducts and practices that Iberdrola and in general transnational corporations employ in their processes of internationalisation". Well, it wouldn't have been too much if he had told us which ones, to reject them directly! With this, written in this way, it seems – and this is what I understand from the reading of this text – that you are against the internationalization of the companies of this country. And now, if we go to the second part, come on! Because it says "... that they often take place without any public control and go against fundamental human rights." Look, I don't know any businessman in this country, either small, medium or large, who says, "Now I'm going to internationalize the company because I want to go against fundamental human rights." And I don't want to warm up the debate, on the other hand, I want to try to suspend it, but I really do want to say that when I read in the same sentence "the Basque entrepreneurs" and "the violation of fundamental rights" I don't have to go to Colombia, I don't have to go to Bolivia. Just be here. Just think about what Adegi had to do yesterday. And thirdly, "Parliament urges the government to submit within six months a proposal for the creation of a public centre to assess the effects of the internationalisation of Basque companies". But what happens, that the countries to which Basque companies go are all minors? Don't they have laws? Don't they control the companies that...? We're talking about Colombia, we're talking about Bolivia... Basque companies also settle in Germany, in the United States (where, by the way, Iberdrola has also fired people), etc., etc., etc. That doesn't count. Basque companies are going to raze, raze with weak countries, which have no legislation. Hey, I don't know! And then we are told that the lehendakari goes on a trade mission and does not take trade unions, does not take NGOs, does not talk about human rights, only talks about economics. Well, listen, it reminds me a lot of that trade mission also of 2012, of July 2012, to Uruguay, in which the deputy general of Gipuzkoa, Martín Garitano, traveled, listen, and I see neither ELA, nor LAB, nor any NGO. I see the deputy of Innovation, Rural Development and Tourism, I see the director of the branch, I see they went with twenty Basque companies, trying to create business opportunities with Uruguayan companies. I suppose they'd talk about human rights too! Because here, according to who does things, they change completely. Five days; they met, you see, with the main companies (the ANCAP oil company, the UTE electric company and the AFE railway company) and entrepreneurs of the country, as well as with the highest Uruguayan authorities. No human rights, no trade unions, no NGOs. Listen, but, as did the Gipuzkoa Diputation, apparently, holy and good. It's really hard. It says, "Don't change us." But how we're gonna fix it! But what are we going to amend? To the title, to the text, or to what you have told us here today? When we come across a text that suggests that we are against internationalization, or that the entrepreneurs of this country – which obviously should not be any on the broad front – are bad and are dedicated to going around rushing to undermine human rights, it is difficult to reach any agreement. However, I manifest to him... Before, Mrs. Goirizelaia spoke of "When you bring things on the ground, we will support them." So do we. Fundamental says they said in Bilbao, in Bizkaia. In Álava we also used to say waste. When you bring something with you, make it clear that the hand of the Basque Nationalist Party is open to talk about serious issues that have to do with energy. In today's case, I started the intervention by saying that it was up to me to do a little bit of bertsolarism. Well, I'm going to end up with a Bertso from Txirrita, or, rather, I'm going to end up with half, dedicated to that motion that you brought us here. I do not read the first half out of respect for the House, but with respect to the second, egon lasai zure mozioarekin, Otero jauna, "bera erriko dek, ez egiok bullza".
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u31	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. Passing on the answers, Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u32	Yes, thank you. Thanks again. Well, I see you all have something in common, and you've said it here: you don't know what to talk about. And it's logical, because I think that – how is it...?– they hear but they don't listen, or they listen but they don't hear. I believe that in last week's intervention, in the intervention on Iberdrola, it became clear that there were a lot of threads that could be thrown away. And obviously, when you bring a motion later you can't pull all those threads at once, because, if not, it looks like a salad, obviously. So, what we've said is, "We're going to do something about it," and we're going to see that the fact that Basque companies and anyone else are internationalizing is creating problems in other countries. Let's see if we put a little brake on it, democratic control, etc., etc., etc., etc. It is curious that before this you say that you do not understand the proposal. I don't know what part they don't understand. About what Mrs de Ocariz said little I will say. I have the feeling that all the time he tries to present our proposals and our speeches as if they were majaderias, let's say. Well, the feeling is mutual. We can't say much more. Obviously, no one on this bench is talking about denying internationalisation or supporting companies. At no time has that been said. I don't know why they say that. What we are talking about is mechanisms of democratic control. Maybe that's why the People's Party doesn't understand what we're talking about. With regard to what Mrs Rojo, of the Socialist Party, has said, there is something that I sincerely believe is already... Well, I don't know if you're pissing me off, or I don't know what's going on, because it gives me the feeling that sometimes we talk... well, we have a mouth, we're here and we talk, right? Another thing is to have legitimacy in what is said. I, if you don't mind, will answer you, more than via Mikel Otero of Euskal Herria Bildu, I will answer you through his own secretary general, who has just won a few primaries with a program he has presented. In point 1.2.5, the programme he has presented talks about putting an end to the abusive power of oligopolies. It says: "The disproportionate power that has been reaching large companies both in Spain and in other countries acts as an accelerator of the formation of oligopolies in the field of large services, energy, infrastructure, banking, insurance...". It says: "One of the most important commitments of democratic socialism of the twenty-first century must be to work to control the power of oligopolies, neutralizing their opaque intrusion into public regulations, their circumvention of taxes through tax havens, etc., etc.." He says: "To do this, it will first be necessary to put in place genuine regulatory mechanisms. Democratic socialism is not against the market, but we will not make any concessions to the abusive powers that operate in it today." With this proposal – this proposal, I understand, winner of the PSOE – on the table, and supported by most of its bases, explain to me how it does not coincide with our proposals for democratic control of the internationalization of companies. Because I don't really know if you speak on behalf of the Basque Government, of your own, of the Basque Socialist Party, of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party... Or I don't understand anything. Or I don't understand anything we're talking about. And, toward the end, Mr. Grabaris, this isn't about Iberdrola, not Iberdrola, I don't know what. Here it is clear that there is an immense amount of indissolubility in the power of the transnational corporations, and the power of the citizens. Nik adibide beat jarriko said, age Iberdrolatik aterako naiz. I'm going to Repsol, because, of course, we talk about Iberdrola and we get into the shell and it looks like, if we start to think about Iberdrola, then it looks like someone's going to give us a cat. So let's talk about Repsol, which still gives us less trouble. About the age of majority or not of the countries and peoples to which these companies go. When Argentina nationalized YPF, the first thing Repsol did was threaten the Argentine state that it was going to pull it out of its eyes. He had the possibility to sue him in the ordinary Argentine courts, he had the possibility to sue him in front of the ICSID investment courts, he had the possibility to sue him in front of a court in New York under an investment agreement, and he had the possibility to sue the Argentine State in Madrid in a commercial court. The Mapuche people, who have been suffering from the internalisation of some companies for decades, because it is an oil-rich area, do you know where you had the possibility to report Repsol? Just in the ordinary Argentine courts. And do you know what chances you, or me or anyone else, had of denouncing the Spanish company Repsol's attitudes about the trophies that it could commit in Argentina or in another country? None. We don't have any. So what we're proposing is that we create a center to see what action we have to take, and maybe that's where we understand that we have to develop a law or whatever. But you're not willing. And what we are talking about is democratic control of companies. Don't mix everything up for mixing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u33	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Together the representative of the Podemos, Mr Martínnez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u34	Thank you. I'm actually used to being the new one, to be called the new one, but it's that the transaction we've made is our non-law proposition and EH Bildu's motion, in the same one. I don't know what's surprising here about what's being discussed. The same text, except for two words in the part of our proposal. Same thing. So, I don't know, I've come prepared! What do you want me to do to him? It's exactly the same. Same thing. I mean, let's not demagogue about it. Mrs López de Ocariz, it is true that companies have been able to do something else, but what we are asking for, as I said in the speech on the proposal of energy poverty – which, by the way, we have reached an agreement; it is not so difficult either – we were saying that the public authorities did not have to deal with these bills, but that it had to be the companies, because of that so tainted corporate social responsibility, that there is no one who believes it, but that they do it out there. And, Mrs. Natalia Rojo, the problem is that there is no political will to deal with the problems we have with this kind of big corporations. Because the problem is not Iberdrola. No one is questioning that issue, neither in 2008 nor now. The problem is this type of practice, and that is what we have said so far. And the problem is also not internationalization, so to speak only with that name, but we are talking about the problems and the things arising from that process. No one is against that, and at no time does the initiative deal with that issue. Because it seems to me that there is no will even to dialogue with Iberdrola, or with another company, so that they can deal with those invoices. But on an interesting topic that Mikel Otero introduced – and that we also commented on in the Committee on Foreign Action and Human Rights more than once – which is the centre for evaluating the activities of Basque companies abroad, he said that there is a proposal approved in Catalonia that will be launched this year. Here it has been called I don't know if chiringuito on the part of the People's Party, seems to be endorsed by the Socialist Party. For Juan Millán, a parliamentarian of the Catalan Parliament, of the People's Party of Catalonia, argued that it was a good instrument (not a chiringuito, not even an ideaca) so that the Parliament could summon the heads of companies to appear when there were well-founded complaints about their practices. Or Ferran Pedret, parliamentarian of the Socialist Party of Catalonia, who says that this instrument has to serve to fulfill social and labour rights, and also in our home. Pedret also says in these statements that it can also help prevent social dumping. Well, I don't know, agree with their respective in Catalonia. At least do not use chiringuites and non-effective ideas, when the United Nations system itself is discussing this issue. And when they have it on the table, then, well, we'll see what they think. But, well, if you do not want to set it up, we will continue to insist that it be implemented also in Basque, because moreover, gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party, from the Basque Cooperation Agency are funding social initiatives that go in the same direction. Well, if we don't even know what we're financing, that's great. And they are also doing essential and vital work in this regard. And, well, assuming so too... In what he has said, I take the floor: when the courts finish all the instruction we will already ask, both the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Basquedi, and the People's Party, if there is a willingness to dialogue with companies, to put the interests of citizens above business interests, and in addition to the fine (why not) to demand these companies to have a responsibility with the places where they operate, in this case in Basquedi, because we are talking about Basque citizens, we are talking about Basque budgets... We will therefore bring the debate again if the judgment proves to be unfavorable for the interests of the company. I place you at that moment, to see what you do with the recovery or not, or with compensations or not for the activities of such companies. I insist, the problem is not Iberdrola (let us not manipulate, no one is going in that direction), the problem is not internationalization, but the application of human, social, labour and environmental rights criteria in that internationalization. Just plain and plain. If there is no will, we will continue to work on it in the following debates at least to convince some of you so that we can adopt these initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u35	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. The representative of the American Basque Team, Mrs López de Ocarariz, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u36	Yes, briefly, to clarify some issues, because it is true that we are in such disparate positions that we will hardly agree. But Mr. Otero said that he introduced here... , that in the interpellation it made a rain of ideas, and that here it has presented an initiative. You didn't make a single mention (I just reread your inquiry) to a public control center. Not a single mention. Review what he said, because I haven't found it, and I have the Basque translation, eh! So, that's not what he's talking about. He talked about a lot of things, but he didn't talk about it. Therefore, I tell you that you bring here a motion that you did not mention in the inquiry. And then the speech you make here doesn't have anything to do with the control center this one either. Of course, they call public control center. Look, I interpret it as a spy center for what our companies do outside. A spy center, that's what you want, and also spied on by your friends. You already tell us who has to be there, and that's what you want. Hey, you know we're in a globalized world, and our companies look out. There are also those who look at Euskadi, and if we all contribute more, more people will look at Euskadi. That's the goal. Because what are you going to do in front of a company that opens in Donosti, that the control center is in Amsterdam and is designed from a country in the East? What do you want to control there? To the gentleman who opens the industry, or not? What do you want to do? What's the control? I believe that states and administrations have systems of control (and municipalities, and parliaments, and this Autonomous Community) to know and control that activities take place within an order. That's what we have: we have a system, which will be better, but a control center I don't finish understanding, really. It's just that you want to control everyone who comes out. So, what are they gonna tell him? When does he have to leave, when doesn't he? That project you've been awarded, don't do it, do the other one? But what do you want to do? What projects do our companies have to present, what businesses do you have to go to, what fairs do you have to go to, how do you have to go, that you want to decide? I don't understand, they haven't explained it. You guys want a little chiringuito and get your friends in. Point! They don't want any more. They haven't explained what that center is going to do! What's the center gonna do? That's what they want, that's their commitment. Then there is talk of guaranteeing public rights, but companies do not have to guarantee public rights. It is the Administration that has to guarantee public rights. Companies don't think they have to guarantee public rights. That's what we have an administration for, which is what it's for. Then we'll see how he does it, but whoever has to guarantee them will be the Administration. And he was telling us that our colleague in Catalonia feels very good for companies to appear in Parliament. Of course! Companies are also appearing in this Parliament! If they're called, show up. Therefore, I agree with my colleague from Catalonia. Let Iberdrola appear in Parliament? Well, let him show up, if he has to. Really, I think you're talking about the internationalization of companies... What they want is control of companies, more control. This does not at all help companies to position themselves in this autonomous community. It is that you change, move to another place and leave out of that control that you want to do, which is what is happening in Catalonia: that companies leave, of course they leave. Why? Because many companies are already fed up with controls, glues, obligations... Therefore Mr Otero, I believe that, as you do not show us, this body that you are proposing will contribute to increasing our business fabric and to increasing the potential of our companies abroad... If you show us that, look, we can still talk. Show me that it can be like this. He hasn't done it here; so... Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u37	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u38	Yes, thank you, President. Mr. Otero finished his speech by saying, "Don't mix for mixing." You must have courage, Mr. Otero! "Don't mix for mixing." And you (including Mr Martínez, because he is also worth the sentence) speak of Iberdrola, but you say that this does not go against Iberdrola; you speak of violation of rights, mixing it with Basque companies; you speak of official travel (as I say, I invite you to ask Mr Lehendakari when you return); you speak of a lack of political will... Is that not mixing by mixing, when you are supposed to be talking about energy concerns and abuse of prices to citizens? Mr. Otero, you mix, and everything. And everything. And there's a phrase, in these popular words, that says, "If you can't with your enemy, join." So, what have you done? They have seen that we have perfectly explained to them why we are voting against their initiative and why we have not tabled an amendment, and they have used our arguments to use them as their own justification. That's what you've come to do. And then they have the courage, Mr. Otero – then I will end by inviting you – to say the program that Mr. Sánchez proposes, which, I will inform you, I don't know if you know we have a congress, and then you have to approve it. It is probably approved as it comes, but I invite you to read everything when you come down to this rostrum and not what interests you. Because what you've read is under a heading that says "Social and Solidarity Cooperative Economy," and that paragraph that you've read had another paragraph below that was about appointment, independence, and that appointments in energy companies are professional and not manipulated. And in addition, that paragraph ends by saying: "We are not against the market, but we will not grant abusive powers." That is what Mr Sánchez, secretary general of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, says. So don't read what you're interested in, read it all, because, if not, it biases the reality of a party's political project, which is what you've come to do. I'm also telling you, I'm not surprised you don't understand what we're proposing. That's why you're sitting there and that's why others are sitting there. That's what's going on, he wanted to come here again to manipulate, and, worst of all, he thought he was gonna catch me, but it's just that I already, Mr. Otero... It's hard for you to catch me in the rostrum. Because, Mr. Martinez, I prepare my subjects a lot, much more than you think, and probably much more than you do. So, don't you come here and say that we prepare the issues, that we come to say that we don't know what, because what I'm telling you is that I know my party documents... [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u39	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u40	... That I read the hemerotheque, that I know what Mr López said in 2008, that I know what Mr Larreina and Mr Maeztu said, because I was here and because I prepare the issues and I read them. And I read them, Mr. Otero. And as part of the Socialist Party I know the party's own documents. You don't know your own document or how to approve it, and you don't seem to know that we have a congress that has to decide whether that document is going forward. But the document says what it says; therefore, do not say that the Socialist Party defends something that it does not do. And he says, "And you in whose name are you speaking?" Well, look, ambitious is one: on behalf of the Basque Socialist parliamentary group, on behalf of the Basque Socialist Party and on behalf of one of the parties forming a coalition of the Basque Government. You don't think so? Does that seem unlegitimate to you? Do you think I have no right to say what I'm saying? And you're talking to me about legitimacy? You? You don't reach me, my party, legitimacy, or ankle height. A lot of you still have to walk, and EH Bildu, to talk with the legitimacy with which I can talk here, about energy and things that are not energy. I mean, don't go that way. Don't go that way. Because you've started saying that we don't know what we're talking about and that's why we say what we're saying. I know what I'm talking about, and even if you think I'm not, I'm holding back. I'm holding back! Imagine everything you could say, that I am silent about respect for this House and because one likes to look forward after preparing the issues, Mr Martínez. And Mr. Martinez said, "There is no political will to dialogue with Iberdrola." Since 2015 Iberdrola has signed 50 agreements with autonomous communities, Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, municipalities, NGOs and associations, to protect customers at risk of energy poverty. That's at state level. As you do not like the state (these gentlemen do not know, you do not know, because sometimes yes and sometimes no, and sometimes half-pensioners), I will tell you that on December 25, 2015 the Red Cross of Euskadi and Iberdrola sign an agreement to speed up and facilitate the way in which people who use social services for debts generated by the supply of electricity or gas. Is it the political will of Iberdrola, this Government, NGOs and all to reach agreements so that the most vulnerable families do not cut off electricity and gas? Because, of course, I think you come here and live in a world that, either you invent it, or you want to invent it, but the worst is that you lack the truth by manipulating things (some political programmes and others the decisions that this Parliament makes) on matters that directly affect citizens, and that is dangerous and irresponsible. And as I have eight seconds left to tell you, Mr. Otero, in two weeks' time it's my party's congress in Madrid. If you want to go, because Mr. Pedro Sánchez besides making papers makes congresses, not only with affiliates, but with sympathizers..., I see you are so interested in the document, that I could provide you with an invitation. So he learns what the Socialist Party proposes for energy and stops manipulating it. And, as I tell you, this MP is not going to get caught in a resignation in what has to do with the policies that her party defends.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u41	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Finally, Eucabertarians, Mr Grivorouss, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u42	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Good morning again, all of you. I've been talking about salads in the past restaurants, a nice salad that I've got right now. Mr Martínez Zatón tells us: "The problem is not Iberdrola, the problem is internationalization". You; see the Journal of Sessions : "The problem is not Iberdrola, it is internationalization". For I would swear that I have read Iberdrola in the two statements of the motion and of the non-law proposition that was being brought. And then Mr. Otero tells us, "I'm going to set another example, because it seems we're just talking about Iberdrola, we're getting into the shell..." And I say, will I ever read wrong again? But he is still talking about Iberdrola, at least in the titles of both proposals. And he ends up saying we don't mix for mixing, when we talked about Repsol, the Mapuches... But, well, it'll have to be like this. So, to focus, since the debate is ending, instead of coming to talk about what we were told to talk about, we came to talk about external relations, Basque companies and human rights violations. Okay! Look, the debate's over and I'm getting it. So, I still don't understand what Iberdrola's legal problems have to do with this, which was at the top of the motion, nor the undue charges on the part of energy companies. Because we have, as I say, moved on to external relations. Anyway, in any case, I'm going to insist on the positive. I believe that most of us agree that the energy price market is not transparent and needs to be reformed. That ad intra, here. It is not transparent, it has to be reformed, so that these kinds of problems that Iberdrola is having right now do not occur. Then we'll see where the National Court is coming from. And from there, then, we enter into an area that my group controls much more, such as that of international law and the legal systems of each of the countries in which there can be Basque companies. They're not just those you're referring to, those who seem to be going like crazy these and others to violate rights. Mr. Otero says: "Why do they say that we seem to be against internationalization?" Damn it! Because we have read "Parliament rejects multiple conducts and practices that Iberdrola and, in general, transnational corporations" – without any kind of restraint; all, whether small, medium or large – use "in their processes of internationalisation, which are often carried out without any public control and are against fundamental human rights". And here, in this small country that is not yet sovereign to make its own decisions, we must create an international body to ensure that the governments themselves do not watch over where our companies are going. I really think it's complicated. It seems to me much more logical to take the path that the United Nations is taking, which, I hope, in defence of those human rights which, it is true, are often violated by transnational corporations, by large transnational corporations (not Basque companies in general, Mr Otero: great international empires), are protected by international law and also by that of the states. From that point on, it is up to me to continue to encourage the Government to continue its determined commitment to implementing business management models in which transparency is precisely an aspect to be strengthened and valued in all Basque companies, as one of the advanced management guidelines that I hope and wish our companies to acquire. Secondly, I would also like to continue to encourage the Government to help, in Colombia and in other countries, our companies to internationalize, because I am convinced that the internationalization of our companies will contribute to the well-being of Basque citizens. And I am also convinced that the internationalization of our companies, beyond creating wealth and creating jobs in other countries, also projects our identity, our values. And I also believe that the vast majority of our companies contribute to the shaping of a new, fairer, more sustainable international order and to the service of people. That is why I insist: let us not generalize. And, to finish, I know I've run out of time, ma'am, but I don't want to leave the tribe without saying you've got the doors of our team open on energy to get to the agreements. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u43	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH Collect and the middle-direction that Podemos signed together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 72; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; abscesssion, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u44	So the middle-line correction has been rejected. Third point in theme list: "Provide the proposition as a parlamentary group, about making a diagnosis about the state of predecitors. Discipline and final resolution. It's your turn, representative of the EH Collect team, Mrs. Trouble, to present and take part in the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u45	Congressman, all members of the legislature, good morning. At the beginning of this year we learned that a fresh attack from the Spanish State for the collective investigators in formation had taken place. In 2011 state...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u46	Silence, please!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u47	In the Law of Science, there was an image of a contraction for investigators who were helping themselves to the thesis: previous medical contract (contrato predoctorial). This kind of contract was to lighten the state under which the investigators suffered, but it did not take effect. Instead, the contract for a work and a service (contrato por work y servicio) is commonly used which is regulated in the State of the State. But these contracts for a work and service were represented by the contractors of practice, as well as in the State, and, unfortunately, even EAE, which was not announced before, and still more shameful, with the retrogressional, by the head of Social Security on the 15th of February, 2016. On the 2nd of March this year, CRUE insisted that the changes applied in the formation's contracts should be temporarily cancelled. And in the middle of March, it was announced in the notice published by the Social Security of the State that the code of the earlier investigators would be changed again, to return to 401, to be a contract for a certain work and service. But things don't happen by themselves. This acquires no doubt that combat and organization are indispensable to stop injustice. But it is plain that there is much to do with this collective, even as well as with the people. When all this happened, I realized one thing: how unknown is the real state of investigators, who in the imagination of the public appear the labor of investigators in an almost idyllic manner. And it's time we knew the truth. And we could hear that truth from our researchers on the 8th of May, but I think it's time to go farther. The formation investigator has always been a defenseless collective: the change of wages year by year, and different from that of calling. And what to say about the difficulty of making a career in colleges! We believe that from the idyllic vision of research to reality there is a radical leap. From the start, access is not easy. Scholarships – which, by the way, have been decreasing year after year, with cuts in research funds – are competing between an increasing number of applicants. In addition, when there is a vacant investigator position the competition is fierce, and up to a few tenths can make a difference. What are those tenths? They are lines in the curriculum, are articles published in prestigious scientific journals, and are stays in foreign centers. There is a constant pressure to publish, a competition that also causes the abandonment of many young vocational researchers. In addition, research is an activity that usually consumes a lot, a lot of time: hours and hours of field work, hours and hours of laboratory work, experiments, analysis, drafting and corrections. It has a very high cost: spending long seasons abroad, and always with days that extend hours and hours. Who hasn't spent hours reviewing an article, trying to shape an idea that appears very clear in the head, but that is very complicated to move to the paper? And how many times, besides, do you have to transfer it in English? The precarious working conditions of most researchers during their predoctoral and postdoctoral stages are also well known, always with the promise of a stable position in the future. These are genuine implicit contracts, in which those affected exchange possible occupational safety in the future with much worse conditions at the present time. In the predoctoral stage, in addition, precariousness has other disadvantages, due to the special character and condition of the relationship between the thesis director and the doctoral student. Moreover, before reaching a stable position it is very common for researchers who perform the same type of work to do so under very different working conditions. This is a reality here at the UPV, as we were told in the appearance. They can coexist, for example, in the same centre and carry out the same type of activity, researchers with scholarship and contract, who cover in black, without any connection in organizations, who charge through diets or payment of external collaborations, or even who work without receiving any remuneration, usually because they are waiting for some assistance. The work of most predoctoral researchers and many postdoctoral researchers has also traditionally been paid through scholarships, and only a very small percentage has benefited from a contract, with the effects this will have in the future. The lack of rights and representativeness has also been a major problem for scholarship researchers, hired by projects or by recruitment aid programmes. This implies in most cases the non-recognition of these researchers, including basic rights derived from their professional activity, such as medical examinations, inclusion in occupational risk prevention programs, or representation in different organs. We're starting with the predotor situation. Institutions have never been clear of the kind of contraction of these workers, which is the principal problem, that they have not developed the image of previous contracts of the PhDIUM defined in the Law. It's about time for this collective to develop a massive picture that will guarantee worthy conditions of work, and this is where the Basque and the University have a big talk. If the diary of the investigators is unknown, it is also another question as a country what kind of enquiry and development will be directed to. Shall we simply lead to the production of research? Is that our model? Without a fundamental inquiry, there is nothing to be built upon. We need to push all investigations, scientific technology, but also social and human sciences. In the studios of society the researcher is often the principal men with white hair, always aproned. I don't know how much society values the researchers, but I know we have a great way to do it, but I am much more concerned about the commitment to the government to study. The most advanced nations have invested in the investigation of a crisis and in development, looking forward. We can open the way to promote important research with more discipline-exploiters and more long-term projects. We should also give priority to the relations of the investigators and to form natural researchers. It is necessary, therefore, that in the middle of research and development, which is the essence of the system, the studyer, should be placed. The work of this collective must confess. The state of those investigators and those workers, and the conditions of work, and the definitions of the means of working, must be advanced. To do this, it is necessary to start from a suitable diagnosis. In the middle we've discussed today, we'd like to take steps in this direction. By developing the scientific system of technology and development in our own developmental course, even without forgetting that the genus equality is not guaranteed. How many women do we have? And above all, in what we said, how much do we imagine the figure of the investigators with the face of women? And, of course, to examine it, and if it is so that we may take measures, we shall again prevent any preclamation in the working conditions of the investigators who have been hired. Today we begin, but he intends to bring us to this full meeting and society, the defence, support, and impulse of the investigators. Even the thought and the popular influence of the investigating system. It's time to be an advanced country, to give importance to research and development. integral system of investigation, with multiple purposes: to improve competitiveness in the international level, to increase visibility and influence in society, and to strengthen the mechanism of the technology transfer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u48	Thank you, ma'am. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u49	Good morning. In the previous debate, it seemed to me that the representative of the Socialist Party understood that this House, or Parliament, was the Parliament where it was most difficult to reach agreements of the world. And the truth is that it has drawn my attention, because I have been turning my mind these days with the opposite idea: that it seems to me that sometimes..., or I have the feeling that many agreements are being reached in this Parliament. This undoubtedly has its positive value, but also its negative issues, as long as you leave things that for a political group can be very important, for the sake of those possible agreements. And at this point we have signed the transaction today, but we cannot hide that we are not at all satisfied with its outcome, because it seems to us to be very short. We signed it – and I'm going to explain why we signed it – because we don't think it's a bad thing about what we're going to approve, either, but we think we're staying a long way from what we would have liked to have been approved, but what we understood could have been approved. Because we were also presented at first with a compromise proposal which seemed to us to be more complete, and which collected things which were proposed by the different groups which finally signed the proposal and which were not contradictory to each other. Therefore, that seemed to us to be a value, and much better. Finally, for whatever reason, some groups have decided that it was better not to go that far, and we will be left with a much simpler proposal. It seemed to us that there were two important issues that could have been agreed upon. One, the first, which is included in what we are going to approve, is in relation to what Parliament is going to urge the Basque Government to do in relation to this. Although it is also true that for the time being there are few duties that we are going to place on the Basque Government today, it is true that this issue is indeed being taken up, because we are putting some duties on it. But there was a second question, also related to what happened, which was explained by Mrs Larrion, who gave rise to this initiative, in that change in the types of contract, which has finally not been collected and which we did think was important for us to have said something from this Parliament. In that sense, we raised our proposal, about these two issues. Above all, we thought that the second question was important, so I said, that it was the origin of the initiative, and it draws attention to the fact that it finally stays out, because we thought that we would run the risk of making an initiative of those that we have seen approved here some, which are toasts to the sun. And we've finally signed for a reason. Because the government has been given a deadline. He is urged to study the situation of this group, which is good and is going to be a tool, I understand, for the different groups to bring concrete proposals to work on this, but above all it is given a reasonable period of three months. And that is what has finally encouraged us to sign the initiative. But we believe, as I said, that it remains short, especially for a reason: because it does not collect anything about the fact that motivated the issue to be brought forward, and it is that change to which I referred. Because it was said in EH Bildu's proposal that the state government had a lack of respect for science and scientists, and that is something we agree with. And, therefore, we believe that this initiative should have been used to address this Government, the Government of the State, the Government in this case of Mariano Rajoy, who is responsible for this lack of respect for science and also, and above all, is responsible for the specific issue of this harmful change in the types of contracts, so that, regardless of whether the situation has been reversed thanks, in our view, to the strong resistance that originated from the affected and also from trade unions, we understand that, at least, explanations should be sought and responsibilities demanded for an unjust decision whose intentionality we still do not know and which affected the predoctorals here in Basque. Beyond the fact that these explanations have been requested in the Congress of Deputies by different groups that we have representation in the Basque Parliament, we understood that this Basque Parliament should have used to ask for these explanations, as long as they affected the predoctoral ones in Euskadi. We believe that the traditional lack of institutional support for research in this case was compounded by the lack of protection and legal uncertainty to which thousands of researchers were subjected when these employment contracts were unilaterally changed. This change was also made with retroactive effect, changing the working lives of people affected without communication either to those concerned or to workers' representatives. They were changed, as has already been said, the contract of work and service for the contract in practice. This unilateral change entailed a significant reduction in the labour rights of these people. Among other things, a maximum duration of two years, compared to the four that lasted a normal predoctoral contract, those that were used, the contract of work; the loss of the right to compensation for termination of contract, or that could not be subsequently contracted in the same field, in the same company. In addition to serious problems, as is more popular or known, to get the European health card. To this day we do not really know who and why this amendment was made; something we therefore understood that we should have demanded from this Parliament as well. Our group does not believe that this change was casual, or that it had no concrete objectives, but the only thing that is clear today is that it represented a new step in precariousness, even more so, both in the world of work in general and in the scientific world in particular on this occasion. When the two-plus-two (two-year scholarship and two-year contract) research fellowships finally disappeared in 2013, moving to four-year employment contracts regulated by article 21 of Law 14/2011, no specific code was created as we believe was mandatory, as these contracts constituted a new modality. Social Security chose at that time to assign, as has also been said, code 401, the contract of employment. Since then, since 2013, four years have passed, in our view more than enough time for the Government, in this case the Government of Mariano Rajoy, to have found a suitable fit and in accordance with the regulations, to conform to the law and not to end up generating unprotected, legal insecurity and precariousness in those who should be an irreplaceable value in our society. The Government of the State has done nothing in that regard, but instead, it came up with the idea of changing the types of contracts of this collective from night to morning, to bravery and without anyone. A real misconception that also affected us here in Euskadi, and that is why – I know I repeat myself – we thought it would have been necessary and possible to include this in the initiative, to ask for that explanation, to ask for those responsibilities. This change that has been made, it is true, has again put in the political debate something that we knew but that was, as so many precarious, hidden, that is the situation in which the workers of the scientific world find themselves: lack of job stability, which represents a first-class handful for the consolidation of research as a driving force for the development of the country. In our view, it is essential that we bet on the drive for research, development and innovation as a priority, not as an indispensible luxury or as a cheap employee path. We believe that it is necessary to put an end to low wages, with precarious work, with scarce resources in a sector, that of research, called, in our opinion, to be a pillar of an alternative economic model (if that is what we want, and we do) based on knowledge and not on competition between companies based on precariousness of workers, which is what we have today. Yesterday I was told by a companion of this predoctoral group who had recently emerged the debate of the cooks who work for free in high standing restaurants, who were said to do it at ease because they learn and so on. And she said to me, "Let the scientist who has not worked for love of science raise his hand." A visual way of explaining the precarious situation that people in the world of science have already become accustomed to. We have signed the initiative, and of course we will vote in favour. We believe that at that time and with that study we will be able to bring more concrete initiatives, but we think that we were very short and that we had to ask for explanations from this House also about the barbarity that was done, beyond turning back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u50	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u51	Thank you, ma'am. Well, for starters, I fully share Mrs Larion's diagnosis. In some things we may agree more or less, but I think it's a perfectly accurate and reality-adjusted diagnosis, and therefore I make it my own. I make it mine, like it couldn't be any other way. The Socialist Parliamentary Group also expresses its concern about the situation that this group is experiencing, not only in Euskadi but at national level. And it is true – as Mr Hernández has also said – that the government has turned back, rectified and returned to the situation of origin, which does not mean that we have to agree. Well, yes, there was somehow a reversal of a situation that was very serious for us, but the situation that this group is currently experiencing is still serious. And we believe that science in general, and this particular collective, is not being given the place it deserves. And we have to recognize that we have a debt outstanding that is neither yesterday nor the day before yesterday, that it is a debt outstanding that comes from 2011. And there we all have to play the mea culpa: those we have had government responsibilities, and that after the adoption in 2011 of the Law of Universities we have not been able to develop it properly and on this issue, and also the parties that from the opposition may not have had enough to push forward initiatives in this regard. We're all responsible. I certainly assume the responsibility of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party in this case, and I do so without compromise, because I also believe that this is the case. I think that in this sense we have to do a very deep self-criticism, because it is a debt outstanding that, as I said, does not come from before yesterday: it is sixteen years (sixteen years) without developing something that is perfectly defined in article 13 of the Law of Universities, which reflects the need to develop a statute of research teaching staff. So, I don't think we can lose a single minute. It is vitally important to develop that status once and for all. Among other things, why? Because science, research, R & D & i, are an indisputable part of the future of our country and our society. It is therefore an absolute priority to be given to this group, to the science in general and to the research group and to the predoctoral in particular. It is incomprehensible that this research staff has in some way a social recognition and yet does not have a job recognition; that they are working in a precarious situation, that they are working in a situation of job instability which, in some way, often invites, especially the youngest group of researchers, to seek their future abroad. Therefore, if in 2006 we managed to get this group to move from fellows to researchers, I think it is time that they had their own employment status, that they had rights and working conditions that would give them stability, and that they had certainty as to their work. Because, as I said earlier, the future of this country depends in large part on R & D+i; therefore, these people must have a job recognition and rights. It's just that it's a drawer, it's a matter of common sense. It would be unforgivable if many of the designations in other fields of work were not recognized in the field of research. We can end up with a pool of researchers in precarious work situations, which would be absolutely unforgivable. Therefore, in order for us to move forward, in order for us to really be a society not adapted to today's times, but to future times, capable of facing the challenges ahead, to have people not only trained, but to have a perfectly defined, perfectly guaranteed job recognition, with stability that will enable us to face the challenges of the future that we have with absolute guarantee. Therefore, we cannot lose a minute at the moment, and I too am calling on the Madrid Government to put the piles on it. In March 2015, we registered and discussed a motion that led to the questioning of the Minister of Education and the Minister of Labour, so that the normative development of this article 16 of the Law on Universities could already be implemented, but we understand that it can also be done from here. Much can be done, regardless of whether the Government is pending and, as I said, the batteries must be put in place and a dialogue already initiated with all the autonomous communities. Regardless of that, we can also start a tour, diagnosing, doing a study, an analysis of what is the situation of this collective in Euskadi. For what? So that, to the extent of our competences, we can explore paths, alternatives, paths, solutions..., for what? To get a big deal, a big deal to see how you can hire them, under what conditions you can hire them; what are the different stages, the different categories that this collective, this staff, in some cases teaching, in other cases exclusively research. In short, define what your future job may be. Also from here, from Euskadi, if we have competences, if we have loopholes, if we have the chance to do so, so that we can do so from the consensus and from the dialogue between all political forces, since here we will have it easy to agree. But, beyond that, also in order to make this same demand to the Madrid Government, let the Madrid Government also initiate this dialogue with the different autonomous communities. It would be unfortunate, as I said, for our brightest young people to have as their only way out the door to exile to carry out their work. I therefore hope that this will be a first step towards a great agreement in Euskadi, but that it will also be a basis, a stone for the Madrid Government to turn on its red light and put on its batteries. Not only to work unilaterally, but through dialogue and agreement not only with the rest of Madrid's political forces, but with the different autonomous governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u52	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Telllería, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u53	The head of the table, members of the legislature, good noon to all. First of all, I'm going to discuss my personal experience as a scholarship. For five years I've been in love with a regular scholarship before my doctor is over. I have good recollections of the days when I know that I am a sinner, or that I am ahead of my whole life, but I am sure of something; the world has changed to better, to improve many things. And in the exact subject of sinners, it's been terribly improved. They've come to be something since they're nothing. There's something! Despite everything, although they have a contract, a possible scientific career ahead and the ability to associate, which we have seen, are far from being accepted as members of the scientific community, something that is really essential. Forgetting my nostalgic past, far past, and returning to the present, which is what it is about, I will emulate, recalling the words of an innumerable Spanish Minister of Defense, in times of an indescribable president of government: "Alba, and with strong winds of Levante", on an undetermined date of February 2017, the Ministry of Employment and Social Security, in absolute secrecy and without entrusting itself to anyone else than themselves, changed the heading of the contracts of the predoctoral researchers from 401 to 420. That is, from contract of work and services, to contract in practices. What did all that mean? For contracts that signed hundreds of defenseless Basque fellows and fellows, whose mission was to do a job that should culminate in the reading of their doctoral thesis, as occupants of any Perejil Island, were assaulted at once, without explanation and retroactively, by some ministerial authority. I will not enter into if it is better one contract than another, if the predators are in practice or do works and services. I'm not going into it. The fundamental thing is that they changed their contract without notice and changed their terms retrospectively at night. And that causes disorientation, that causes discouragement, that causes a feeling of being subjected to the vavenes of the desires of others. And, ultimately, that causes a lot of insecurity. And that, look how you look, it's not right. Look at yourself as you look at yourself, there's no right to that. Because no explanation has been given. The Conference of Rectors and the parliamentary groups of the Congress of Deputies were moved, and, as a result, on 2 or 3 March, the pre-doctoral contracts were returned to their original format, restoring in some way the justice, order and fulfillment of the word given when those contracts were signed. Congressional parliamentary groups signed a motion that was signed unanimously, and everything went back to being. Or not. Our parliamentary group understands that, although everything has returned to the original state, there has remained to resolve a situation of anxiety, insecurity, whose motive is nothing other than original sin, that is, the non-fulfilment neither of the Law of Universities nor of the Law of Science. The former required the preparation of the statute for teaching and research staff, and the latter required a career-researcher establishment. The situation of insecurity and indefinitiveness had not been met either of the two normative predictions. And that in no way is the method to manage the human resources that will be the future of research, the future with which we all fill our mouths saying that that is the future. However, both demands for legislative development have already been made in the appropriate forum, which is nothing other than the Congress of Deputies. And they have, of course, done unanimously, which directly concerns all the parliamentary groups here. But from there, what are we doing here? To reiterate what has been said in Madrid does not take us anywhere, nor does it belong to us, because the policy of Madrid is being done in Madrid, and that of Euskadi is being done in the Basque Parliament, which is already enough of the issues there that are committed to coming here, so that matters that can be looked at with the policy here can be brought to the analysis of the policy there. It is true that today the dependence on the legal framework for such scholarships is the central government, and through the Spanish Parliament, as I have already said, a number of actions have already been called for that should substantially improve predoctoral scholarships. Therefore, the transaction we have reached is bound to try to find information here about the problems they cause there. And it is that, whatever they do far from here, if the change of contract format causes objectively concern in the collective of Basques and Basques who start a research career in which so much hope they and we have placed, we must strive to work so that that insecurity does not happen again. For this reason, we propose that our Government pool the data of all pre-doctoral fellows who populate research centres, universities and companies in Euskadi, or who are elsewhere but have scholarships in Euskadi, so that we can study and analyse them. This analysis will allow us to approach a quantification and diagnosis of the problem. From there we will be able to make proposals for a solution with our resources, which may allow, from here and here, to reduce the uncertainty and insecurity of those who have found a path to the future in science. We will be able to discuss new legal links, pending transfers, or any regulatory, economic or administrative aspects that contribute to a system that, as I have said, has evolved into light years in recent decades, but still needs many adjustments. The Madrid Government today has the maximum capacity to resolve the conflict, and the Madrid Parliament is therefore responsible for the matter, and that is what it is about. In fact, although the Science Act itself refers to the decree on the transfer of R & D to the Basque Country, it says that everything that is regulated in that law is without prejudice to what is transferred to Euskadi, safeguard as always, in the end, as basic regulations the most relevant of the case we are dealing with, which is nothing other than the type of contracts. And, although that is already a serious setback in itself, we cannot stand alone waiting for them to look at it and fix it, but we must work to look at here with our eyes a problem that affects people here. That's what the transaction we signed today is about. In short, this transaction proposes to work to do better and fairer the system of predoctoral scholarships, but in this case, even if it is paradoxical, better if we do it away from the scientific method. Because, even to help scientists who do science, it turns out that – and as Marcus Jacobson said – "science can discover what is true, but not what is good, just and human," which is exactly what we have to try. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u54	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. It's your call, Mrs. Bengochea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u55	Well, let's see, we were faced with a first PNL presented by EH Bildu, a PNL that actually said things that, as I will show below, were not exactly true. They weren't exactly true. And then we met with this compromise amendment. In this compromise amendment there is one thing that makes me so graceful. It begins as follows: "Before the anxiety caused by the inexplicable modification of the framing of the heading...". Well, let's see, we're all in Congress of Deputies, and there were all the explanations that had to be given! Of course, it is impossible for anyone to understand something if they do not want to listen, but so they listened in Congress, that then they were able to sign a motion unanimously. On 18 March, Mr Urquizu, who is a member of the Socialist Group, asked the Minister for Education about this subject, and the Minister for Education went and explained it. The first thing we have to say is that the signatories of that contract are the universities and the PhD, that is, it is not the Administration and the PhD. It's not the Basque government and the PhD, it's not: it's the university and the PhD. In the development of the 2011 law, which is the Science Act, especially its article 21, this plan was implemented, and Social Security framed these workers in article 401, which is an article by work and service. Well, who protested this? Who protested? For he protested the Conference of Rectors of Spanish Universities, and fortunately the minister was able to teach the record in which the Conference of Rectors of Spanish Universities (which in this case are like the employer, because it is the universities that sign the contracts), they ask – and the minister was able to show documentation – that it is not a contract of work and service, but rather a contract of practice. I mean, when you say "inexplicable change"... See, it was even explained with documentation: the employer, which is the Conference of Rectors of Spanish Universities, requests that the contract modality be changed. It is not up to the Government to do so. But, more than that, as he demonstrated..., come on, he demonstrated it with papers, but as he also told, it was made clear to the directors that it is not the administrative headings that give rights and duties; it is the law that gives rights and duties. It is the law, and in this case article 21 of the Science Act. So let's see what rights and duties the law gave these workers. First, here is one thing we were told in one of the first motions, which loses the right to receive compensation at the end of the employment contract. See, a contract of this kind is a contract that has a time, and does not entail compensation afterwards; what entails is the right to unemployment. It carries the right to unemployment, and these workers actually paid 8,3 % of their payroll for unemployment, and at the end of the contract they were entitled to unemployment, on the one hand. On the other hand, they had the same conditions of health care abroad as any other Spanish, which was the European health card, which is valid for two years and then has to be extended. There was one who had not yet signed the contract and therefore was only given a certificate, as the minister explained, because they had not yet signed it, but had the same coverage as the other. Then, the one who has to communicate the changes in the contracts is the one who contracts, in this case the universities, which, I repeat, is in the minutes (the minister was able to show them) the request that the employment contract be changed. Of course, logically the PhD students... Well, another thing: what we can't forget too is that this contract is a formative contract, to carry out a training, and that already came in the law of 2011. Then, logically, the sector, the workers did not agree with this change requested by the employer, who are the directors (including our directors), and then on 1 March the Secretaries of State for Education, Employment and Social Security met with the directors to tell them that if they wanted, as they were the employer, they could go back to the previous model; that the government gave it the same, because the rights and duties of those workers guaranteed them the law, not the epigraph, and the law was very clear (then I will talk to them about the salary), but that it was going to require them this time to show that there was an agreement with the workers' representatives and with the whole sector. Indeed, this agreement was reached, and the Government, which gave him the same, and that all it did was respond to the request of the directors, who were the employer and who were the ones who had to communicate it to their employees, returned to article 401. And, moreover, so does not change the heading of the rights of these workers, which, as I have little time left, apart from touching unemployment, apart from touching health coverage in Europe, that all that did not change... Nor did the conditions of pay change, which are as follows. The first two years – this comes in the law – at least, at least... Then each university can pay whatever it wants, but the soil, from where it cannot come down, is 50% of the agreement. Which will be little, but what the law does is protect that floor. Then the UPV, or whoever it is, can pay a lot more. The third year, 60% of the agreement, and the fourth year 75. But this is a floor, not an obligation. So, the university can pay whatever it wants; what it can't pay is less than that. And in the worst case scenario, of course, you can't pay if and a half the minimum wage. I've got that around here, but it's like this. Then, workers are given the rights by law, which, I repeat, is the law of 2011, Law on Science, Innovation..., and some more title, in article 21. The change of heading was requested – and demonstrated by the minister – by the employer, of those who sign the contracts. And they'll tell me, "Why do you think that was?". Well, I don't know. There are very closed worlds where they feel attacked when new figures are created that break into that world. That's what I've been told. Come on, that's what I've been told. And that's why the Administration changed from 401 to 420, demonstrable with documents. And then, when the PhD students showed their dissatisfaction, as I say, the three secretaries of state agreed and said, "Well, clarify what they want, but please bring us the agreement from the whole sector." And the agreement was indeed brought in by the whole sector and went to what the Government had initially decided, which was 401, which was the real decision of the Government. So our group is going to vote in favour of the compromise amendment for one reason: because, although it does put here "the concern caused by the inexplicable change", I think it is explained. So, I hope you've all understood. And then we will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Passing on the answering shift, representative EH, Mrs. problemon? Yes, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u57	From here, very fast, I think, to thank you, too, the self-critic of the Socialist Party. I think that's the way. It's not the only one: We haven't developed the University Act from 2004 and science and technology, but I think it's important to accept it and go ahead. The action of inhibiting the People's Party was already known to us. We're not counting on it either. And I think everyone else is grateful. The question of Madrid has also become clear, and clearly the Party isn't ready to admit what has been wronged. But, well, that's not news. And I think it'll be important to develop our work three months from now.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u58	Thank you, ma'am. Together the representative of the Podemos, Mr. Hernandez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u59	Well, our group is actually going to insist that it was appropriate for us in this House to ask for such explanations, regardless of whether they were asked in Madrid by the groups that are also in this House. Many times we hear here about bilaterality, etc., and then it is incomprehensible for us to say that these are things that have been done there and that we are therefore going to deal with the things here. These things done there, as Mr. Telleria has said, are mostly done by someone. The important thing is not, in our opinion, where they are made, but who has made them and why they have made them. And, therefore, we thought that it was important for this House to address the Madrid Government to ask for explanations for these changes that were made and that, as all groups have also defended here, they were harmful to the predoctoral group. And there are a number of issues that we do not share, of course, with the People's Party, beyond the fact that they are going to vote for the initiative. It is logical and we understand that all the groups will support the initiative, so I said at the beginning of my previous intervention, because in the end it is a very simple initiative, which requires very little, and to which we cannot oppose. Then we will see; with the result of that study I suppose all the groups will bring proposals. But construction contracts are said to have no compensation. As far as I know, construction contracts have a compensation right now... No, I'm not finished, Mrs. Bengoechea: a twelve-day compensation per year, construction contracts. And that is another of the issues that demonstrate the situation of legal defencelessness in which workers are found in general, and in particular in the scientific world. Whoever has to modify the contract also tells us that it is the one who contracts. Man, what we don't think is a receipt is that the contract be amended without communicating it to the other party. If I have a contract, which is a contract between two parties, who hires me at least will have to communicate it to me, and we have all seen that the contractors in this case were informed by the press or when they went to see their working life, by chance or because they requested it. That, of course, is not welcome at all, and therefore there are sufficient reasons to ask for explanations. No more. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u60	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Aziza, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u61	Thank you. With your permission, from my seat. Mrs Bengoechea said that she protested in the council, and I say that we were many political forces that we protested. Not only those who had representation on the council, but, beyond that, all of us who had representation in the Congress of Deputies. You were talking about a contract for works and services. Finally, it seems to me that it is to have an excessively mercantile view of something that I believe is undoubtedly relevant, as is the role of researchers in this country. Because who defines when an investigator's service contract ends, when there are researchers who spend their entire lives investigating a single issue? He was talking to me about formative contracts. Finally, it is true that there will be many young people who dedicate their research work to acquiring knowledge, but, let me tell you, that knowledge is not a one-person knowledge. It is a collective knowledge, because, after all, it is a knowledge that has a social impact, a scientific impact. Therefore, there are few professions that have such a generous component as the research profession, regardless of the field in which it is carried out. Therefore, the researcher not only acquires knowledge; the researcher brings knowledge, creates knowledge to this society. Therefore, treating it in such a mercantile way seems to me, if I may, somewhat frivolous. Doesn't that work deserve recognition? Not a social recommendation: a job recognition. Don't these researchers deserve to have a statute that recognizes rights consistent with their work? Finally, probably the difference between you and us is that you see those researchers, those workers, as a business, and not as an indispensable contribution for this society to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u62	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians, Mr. Telllería... That's where it is.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u63	Yeah. Mrs. Bengoechea, it's still inexplicable. It's still inexplicable. As much as the minister in the Congress of Deputies said that he had been asked to do so by the Conference of Rectors, who may, as he then does, say himself in the Minutes that change does not impose or remove rights. If you don't put or take rights, why did you change it? What did he change it for? If they don't even inform the interns, the hired party, what did they have to hide, or what was going on? Because one thing is to inform the contractor, but the contractor, who had signed a contract two or three years ago, to change the format... And if they tell him that nothing changes... But it is the minister himself who says so. And I'll tell you more. It is unanimously approved, by all parliamentary groups, with the aim..., they ask the government to provide for investigative personnel, so that situations of precariousness in the working conditions of the hired investigators, or of legal uncertainty, will not be repeated. Then there was something. You voted for it, eh! You voted for it. And I will simply keep insisting: in Madrid we all said what we had to say; we are not going to be a monkey of repetition of what they do in Madrid. We're going to have our own judgment as the Basque House! That's just why I've been working on not... We already do it in speeches, we already say who is responsible. Let us try to see what we can do, in the capacity we have to be able to contribute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u64	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u65	Well, let's see, Mrs. Larion first. Look, your words distill so much hate, so much fear, so much this... that I don't even bother. We're used to it. We're used to it, eh! So, of course, I think we almost consider it a disability that you have. Be careful, because hatred is a disability and prevents you from relating well in coexistence. I mean, I wish you a recovery and you'd take away the hatred. I will tell the representative of the Socialist Group that he has made a lit and lyrical defence with which I am sure we all agree. He says it's the most generous profession. Well, firefighters are also very generous, not to mention that scientists are very generous. But, with regard to the last thing you said, in politics the way to lose a debate is with the judgments of intent. What a sad way to have a debate, what a confession to have no arguments! Then look, yourself. Keep arguing with judgments of intent, but I'm afraid you won't convince anyone, because it's the argument of those who run out of arguments: judgments of intent. Otherwise, I repeat again, it is true, we all signed that motion in the Congress of Deputies because we agreed. And here you keep asking yourself: "And why did the heading change? And why did you change the heading?". Please ask the Conference of Rectors of Spanish Universities, who requested it and who, as contractors, were also obliged to communicate it, not the Administration. And, as you said, when, because the board of directors requested it, it became clear, as the minister in Congress said, that this change of heading did not remove rights, that rights gave them the law. I gave them the law. And "you have to ask for explanations." Well, I don't know. We can ask you to attend the Conference of Rectors of Spanish Universities and ask them: "Why did you want to move from heading 401 to 420?". And when they saw that it had been a mistake – I'm not going to say another word, it had been a mistake – they ran back and said to the government, "Hey, you did it right. You'd put them in 401. Please do it again." They recognized their mistake, the Conference of Rectors of Spanish Universities. It is they who will have to explain. And I don't know if I have anyone left. Oh, yes, I think the Lords of Podemos. Well, what I explained to you, the board of directors. No, look, ma'am... I'm glad you told me that! You give me foot for one thing. I'm using the generic male, and I think I have as much right to use it as you use the generic female. I will never draw your attention to one of the men in your group coming out and speaking in female. You have every right in the world to use the generic female, just like I do to use the generic male. If I respect your generic female, you respect me my generic male. That is what coexistence and tolerance consist of. [[Berber]] Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Now that the debate has ended, we will vote EH Collect, Euskal Socialists, together with the middle-point that Podemos and Eukébertarians have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 72; the votes are 74; the supporters are 74; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; the abstainations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u67	So the middle-line correction is unanimous. Forth point on the theme list: "The same proposal as the Parlamentarian Society made in the vineyards of the historical land of Arbatha, about the severe state of ice in the last day of April 2017. Discipline and final resolution. The turn of the proposed team, representative of the Basque Potula Group, Mrs. lópez de Ocarariz, is yours to introduce and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u68	Yes, good morning, Madam President, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen. I present on behalf of the People's Group this non-law proposal, which refers to the serious situation generated in the vineyards of the historical territory of Álava after the frosts of the last days of April. I say frost because around April 28, ten days before or ten days after, there were several episodes of frost that affected fruit, vegetables and barley mainly. Also, the most impact was that of the 28th, where the vineyards of Rioja Alavesa were affected, especially the villages of Baños de Ebro, Elciego, Navaridas, Villabuena, Leza or Samaniego. Approximately eight hundred families, 3,500 hectares more or less, of which 2,100 were insured. In the Txakoli of Ayala it also had its effect the frost, and it focused mainly on Amurrio and some points of Llodio and Okendo. After the days of disconcerting, the first days, the situation seems stabilized. The regulatory council talks about tranquility, prudence and reflection, axiom to practice in order to face the recovery of the vineyard. A frost that arrived, in some areas of Rioja Alta and Rioja Alavesa, at five degrees below zero. They comment on the producers who gave themselves the conditions for a kind of perfect storm: strong and very late spring frost, a vineyard advanced by the good weather of the previous weeks, with a more advanced development than normal of that date, and after the low temperatures the sun rose, which completely dehydrated the leaves with a burnt effect. According to the technical services of the Casa del Vino de Laguardia, they assure that the damage will reach a third of the vineyards of Rioja Alavesa. The full extent of the damage shall be known when it is harvested in September. The affected vineyards are having a very positive behavior, and to this is contributing the good field management that the producers are carrying out and the latest rains. Field work that will be very important during the whole harvest, because the behavior of the vineyard will not be the same as in normal situation. 2017 will be a year in which you will live two crops, two harvests, one with ice cream and the other without ice cream. What can we do from the administrations? For, frankly, the first thing to do is to sympathize with those affected who initially, when they saw the vineyard the next day, suffered a major shock. As I said, the behavior is being very positive. For us the important thing is to insist on the need to have an insurance for farms and agricultural productions, and also for the vineyard. In the vineyard the insurance contract is higher, and therefore it is what often retracts the producers from hiring an insurance, because it involves a significant investment. At the moment we do not reach 40% insurance in the vineyard. This is a problem. According to Agroassurances, the affected parts are around 2,200 hectares and 7,000 plots. We share the idea of granting aid to encourage the recruitment of insurance. We also insist, we have been in this House for a long time, insisting on the need to hire insurance. It is also important to study changes in performance when mitigating the effects (which in this case is ice cream, in other cases have been granulated); see the possibilities of modifications after adverse climatic effects, which allow wine farms to reduce their condition, expanding the production of the unaffected area. We consider it interesting to study protective measures for vines against frost. Measures that can have good behaviour in our territory and that can help protect farms. What we call today incorporating innovation combined with new technologies in the primary sector, which is very necessary, because it helps us to minimize losses, maintain quality, maintain the optimal level of production, avoid diseases... It is a field where our innovation centres should work, and in this case be able to bring the wine sector closer together. Possible technological incorporations that help improve productions in quality and quantity and sustainably. We also insist on compliance with the Agrarian and Food Policy Act. This is the umpteenth time that we insist, because this law was passed in 2008, and there are specific sections promoting the insurance of production and farms; we also talk in that law, in article 84, about the catastrophe fund and how to regulate it for acts that are considered to be catastrophes; we also talk about compensation funds, in article 83, that are not developed... And the truth is that after almost nine years of passing this law, and we have so many undeveloped articles, it surprises. Surprise. It is not this government, other governments have passed, but nine years, and that there are still articles that do not develop, so the truth that makes us think that there is no interest, because we do believe that it is necessary to develop them. And the will of the legislator and those of whom we passed that law was that this should be reflected in a law that would develop and be there for occasions when it was necessary. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the interest of the People's Group in the initiatives we are presenting before this frost, which we have presented at the General Councils of Álava for those measures that can be put into effect from the Chambers, such as fiscal measures, to make split payments..., and other measures that can be applied by the Chamber together with the Basque Government, of what are called soft loans... And in this House we have tried to present measures that fall within this House too, which are also within the competence of the Basque Government, or where the Basque Government, together with the Members of Parliament, can focus on measures to support the sector. We want mainly to focus on contributing and maintaining the economic stability of the producers and the production of the wine sector concerned, both in Rioja Alavesa and in Ayala. The groups have made contributions, made proposals for amendments to the initiative. We have come to a compromise amendment which I believe reflects more or less the feeling of the amending groups. I do not know whether EH Bildu is considered sufficiently reflected in the compromise amendment or not, but our interest has been to pick up the report you proposed, because it seems to us that it can fit perfectly. And the compromise amendment that we have reached says, First, that, in compliance with the Agricultural and Food Policy Act of 2008, the regulations that develop the disaster fund and its management system will be drawn up within five months. In point 2 we say that, in coordination with the outside parliaments, and with the agreement of the Committee on Agricultural Policy, it will carry out awareness-raising campaigns on the importance of hiring insurance for farms and agricultural productions, as well as technical and training advice to prevent and, where appropriate, mitigate the consequences of damage to yields that may be suffered by the producer sector, and a report will be drawn up containing all the measures developed in this area and sent to Parliament. It is true that we have also been insisting for a long time on awareness-raising campaigns, but we have not progressed in the percentages of insurance of productions and farms, mainly in Rioja Alavesa, which is a region that depends exclusively on this production, which is even more serious, because if there really were a catastrophe effect on this production the consequences would be very important. It should be remembered that wine production and everything in the wine-growing world has an average of 25,000 jobs, and that it is a very important population that would be affected, with many sectors that are aligned around the production of wine and the production of wine. And, therefore, I think it is worth an effort to ensure that these productions and farms have insurance to ensure that the stability of production and producers is maintained. I therefore believe that we are talking about something very serious, that we repeat it as if it were a canteen, but it is necessary to make progress in this in percentages of ensuring production and farms. We also say, in point 3 of the compromise amendment, "Incentivising the procurement of insurance in the different agricultural subsectors through different aid granting measures". And in the fourth point we say "Defend the interests of wine producers in all sectors and administrative areas, especially in the face of the situation of damage caused by frost in this campaign", proposing to amend the 2017 marketing rules and to consider the possible exceptional flexibility of the yield of vineyards. And we say that the possible flexibility is studied because it is true that the dimension of the wineries is very different (there are wineries of huge dimensions and very small wineries), and these measures, in fact, do not affect all in the same way. Therefore, we say that this possible exceptional flexibility of performance should be studied, because we want to know exactly what impact they can have on one type of winery and another and, ultimately, to know whether these measures are favourable or not for the wine sector. This is the amendment we have reached, and we expect the support of the rest of the groups. And I would like to thank the groups that have tabled an amendment to form this compromise initiative and to count on the support of all. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. The turn of the teams that have submitted to the corrections, the representative of the EH Collector, Mrs Lopez de Rockiebe, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u70	Hello, good morning. Thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. The damage he'd suffered in the first sector is back on the table. We know that the first sector must always be looked at in heaven and always under heaven. That's the way it is, and the climate change is obviously above us. We're gonna have to take over the actions and protect the first sector. The coordination is an emergency between institutions. We'll have to order measurements, yes, but these measurements are within a protocol. Today we come here looking at Erriziox and our best intentions. We'll have to offer the size, guidance, and tools to the sector to make its decisions. Every time the primary sector suffers an adverse episode, climatologically speaking, we are faced with a motion calling on the Government to take measures to deal with it, to help the sector and to take action. Let us take action within a protocol in time, and agree, as it cannot be otherwise, with the different agents. It must be a priority function of the Government. It would not be necessary, in principle, to have to make motions every time a night freezes in Rioja Alavesa or in Aiara. The story is repeated once again, again, and the data is also on top of the table. Data demonstrating the defencelessness faced by the primary sector on a day-to-day basis, a defence that is not exclusively climatological, which is also due to lack of security. It's an uncertainty for lack of security in prices, in the climate... in everything. Very specific data. Of the last six campaigns, four have had an adverse weather effect. Only two have been freed, and fair enough. That's telling us that it wasn't just that it was hot in April; that's telling us that we already have the most famous climate change, that we have trouble talking about it but it's on the table. And today I had breakfast with him, and in a newspaper they also talked about climate change. We know, and we also know how this change is going to affect us. In fact, how vineyards are the first productions that are already affecting them in the most direct way. A climate change that, although not today's central debate, we really need to talk about. And in fact, that's why we're here today. A climate change that takes place for many more things, but one of them is the negligence of big governments, where economic interests, as shown in today's newspaper pages, are above the common good. A responsibility that to some extent falls to us or falls to us all and faces it all. So something is clear; that the primary sector suffers directly from the consequences of these episodes is clear (dry, hail, frost), and that we have the responsibility to respond as far as we are concerned. That's why we're again discussing this subject. We're going to have to get specific data to take sizes and take steps from there to the sector. Therefore, and as we put forward in our amendment – an amendment I believe is conciliatory and with the intention of contributing – we need to have data in order to be able to speak and make decisions, to the extent that we can, as cold as possible, not make hot decisions. We cannot talk about a catastrophic area, as was said at the beginning, because, of course, it has not been a catastrophe, because it is still early to assess whether it has been a catastrophe, and because until the time of harvest we will not know. So, I from here would ask for little demagogy, more seriousness, and we will rely above all on the data we have on the table. Once again we find ourselves in a hard, unexpected blow. But not unexpected..., it's unexpected the afternoon it occurs, but not because of the usual fact that it's already in the last campaigns. Therefore, it is up to us to predict. Predict, because they're coming and we'll have to deal with these next episodes. On the subject, of course, we agree on the substance. How can we disagree! But we don't agree so much on forms. From EH Bildu in our replacement amendment we proposed a commission where all the agents that surround not only wine, but also txakoli (I would even say that the primary sector in general, because also drought is affecting in La Llanada)..., well, a commission to know for sure, so that the data are on the table, what it has been, how much damage there has been, and how we are going to alleviate this damage. Another study to prevent. If we are talking about the causes, we also need to talk about the consequences. Let us talk about preventive measures, which should in principle be assessed, but above all we would say that we must look for measures on the letter. They must be individualized. All actions to prevent these episodes should be coordinated with whom? With whom better than with whom he treads the vines every day and knows perfectly what to do! And we cannot forget the technicians in the sector, who also know where, who are the best to advise, and in fact are already doing so, to look for the viability of production. But what is also our concern today is to protocolize, once and for all, all these measures. We were talking about insurance. I see a certain change in the initial propositions until today, and on the subject of insurance I have seen it since minute one. It's very complicated to judge. On the one hand are the people who have lost all the harvest and had not insured; okay, we will have to see how we get the viability of this year 2017 on those farms. On the other hand, there are people who had the vineyards insured but the loss in income will be important. And, of course, the last ones, who make wine, who have also been affected and who will come after, next year, when they have no wine to sell or when they have less, how they will supply the usual customers, with the added risk that this entails. It is clear that all hectares are not insured. We see the data: we talk about 80% of crops in La Llanada, but in Rioja Alavesa much less. But it's not because there's no conscience. There's consciousness, what we don't have is money. I mean, what it's not, it's profitable. If it were profitable and seen as an investment rather than an expenditure, the vineyards would be insured and we would not be debating here today how to secure them, whether to carry out awareness campaigns or not, simply because awareness campaigns do not work. Let a triptych come home telling us how we have to ensure and how beneficial it is to secure our vineyards is useless, if we do not know that we will be able to face that expense during the year. The money the government should or should urge to enter those awareness campaigns I would devote to subsidizing that all the hectares..., that there is not one left next year uninsured, and that everyone can sleep peacefully. All hectares, without leaving one, must be guaranteed the subsidy in order to be able to secure, and that would indeed be an effective measure. But what I was saying: we have OCA, we have technicians, we have centers, associations, unions, we have important technical advice. Let's take advantage of it, and put on the table feasibility plans a la carte and to the extent that everyone needs and knows how they are going to manage their own exploitation. Because if something is in the primary sector – it said a moment ago – it is that it is aware of protecting its crops, its animals or its crops; therefore, with effective advice and fair prices it would almost be enough. To conclude, the eternal problem arises: the producers of vineyards, the small wine-makers, and the peasants of Errisha from Abara will always pay a great deal for this extraordinary life of production. Why? It is clear: The great reservoirs will always find tools to advance a serious situation, not only to advance, but to win something. They'll always be ready to bring the grapes from the outside, sell them cheaply and compete unjustly. There's a challenge ahead of us, a pretty challenge, but it's hard, very strong. "EH will always be in favor of farmers, who have always been to encourage people, culture, and life. These episodes, if anything is wrong, are that the poor and the small and the family farms are impoverished, while some are always going to get rich. And, by chance or not, Araba's small farmers and farmers are at a disadvantage in the face of the big wineries, which will already be preparing stocks, if they don't have them ready already, to enter the market, and rubbing their hands seeing the next harvest. If we want, because we must revalue the region, a way to do things, a way to promote people, culture and work on earth, then we have nothing but push, to protect, to advise... Well, I think we can agree on that, deep down we absolutely agree. But not only when there's a misfortune like this on April 28 at night. Always. So, finally, the assessment of the proposal and the amendments I am going to make in the reply, but I would like a little further explanation of point 4, in which we have doubts, and also to ask... Well, that point 4 is explained to us, because I don't understand very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u71	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u72	President, ladies and gentlemen. The initiative that Mrs López de Ocariz brings us is an appropriate initiative for a problem that we all know about in relation to the frosts of April in Rioja Alavesa and the damage that the vineyards have suffered. And it is also timely in time, because a few weeks have passed since that, today we have a much more concrete element of assessment of what happened in relation to what might have been that alarm at the end of April, and we are therefore in a position to have a much more focused debate on where the problems are and what the solutions are. It is also appropriate for this Parliament to take letters on the matter, as other institutions have done. There is a very concerned institution in this respect, which is the Foral de Álava, and the General Councils, but also this Parliament, because we are talking about the frost and the impact it has on producers, wineries, on the agricultural part but also on the industrial part of wine, but also on the commercial part and on the tourist part, because it is something that affects and is important to this Parliament. Therefore, this is an initiative that, in our view, must be intertwined with the initiatives of other institutions, among others, which I have mentioned, because we must act together, in a coordinated way, so that the palliative results are as effective as possible for the citizens who are dedicated in Rioja Alavesa to this need of the production of the grape and the transformation of the grape into wine. The proposal that Mrs Ocariz had in some way is contained in the compromise amendment. There are some variations, but, well, it's pretty well picked up. Because it is true that we have a law on agricultural and food policy since 2008 that is not regulated. It is proposed that it be regulated, and then there is another initiative that Mrs Ocariz has also put forward, which calls for the whole of the law to be regulated, but, well, it is true that the disaster regulation is not being done and must be done. And, although we are not currently talking about a catastrophic situation, taking advantage of the circumstances and the alarm that has been generated, it seems appropriate for this to develop. That is why it has been proposed, in a consensus action between three political groups which should please the House as a whole, that the development of these regulations should take place within a certain period of time. It is also intended to encourage, advise and influence all producers to make insurance. It is true that insurance has certain problems; not only is there the initial problem of what is the economic solvency of a producer in order to be able to make its insurance, but then insurance also limits the hectares that can be insured, limit the price that can be obtained per kilo of grapes... Well, they have certain limitations that policy action or policy aid should also try to help resolve. Insurance should have a capacity to ensure much more real than it costs to produce grapes and the problems that are also generated in situations like these. Because those who are in the worst of situations, who have lost everything, not only have lost their way of earning their way of life, their wages, but they will be subjected to special, specific treatments, special, specific jobs, in order to be able to confront the elements that damage the vineyards. That it is not only that the grapes do not come out, but that they are much more things than the very production of grapes, than the very kilos of grapes that cease to be harvested. Therefore, the part of the invitation to be made safe and to extend the insurance to the maximum, and to be able to be to the whole of the vineyards, must also have that aspect of accompanying to move some resistances that from the insurance companies are produced, so that all this is in a more logical reason with the costs of production and with the productions, with the development of the production that each of the producers has. It is clear that, to the extent that there are subsidies to assist insurance, if the number of insurances currently available is to be practically multiplied, more economic resources will be needed, more budget items will be needed. And, therefore, this is also an element on which we must think and intervene, knowing that the budgets of the institutions are already made, but that economic strengthening is needed in order to help them become more secure, not by reducing the subsidies that were made, but by maintaining them, and thus by providing them with more economic resources. And then there is something that Bildu has actually asked to be explained to him, and that I do not know how far the explanation can be given, among other things because it is a complex matter, but I think it is reasonable to address it. And it is that there is a certain flexibility of the yields of the vineyards, which is mainly related to the characteristics, to the limitations that the Rioja Regulatory Council establishes for the farms of those vineyards, for the vines per hectare, for the kilos per hectare, etc. Well, it's actually a complex matter. In any case, in addition, that part that would be the responsibility of the Rioja Regulatory Council, but I think it is good that we are invited to reflect on this, beyond what can be achieved. Because it is true that what can generate help in one case can cause comparative aggravation in another, because if you flexibilize performance you can flexibilize it to the one who is harmed but also to the one who is not, and obviously this is not easy to regulate. Nor do I think it is up to this House, because it is the responsibility of the regulatory council, and therefore it is there, in the Rioja Regulatory Council, where it is resolved. In short, we are facing a very important problem. The Rioja Alavesa in economic volume, in industrial capacity, in tractor element of tourism, in jobs, in the end, in a lot of things (gross domestic product...), brings a considerable amount and quality to what is our economy, and it is reasonable that the Basque Parliament echoes this and treats, to the extent of its capacities and in coordination with other institutions, and also inviting other bodies outside the policy, such as insurance or as the regulatory council, that among all of us see how to treat that 2018 is not a repetition of 2017 if the time again produces these kinds of situations. And, therefore, since it is better to prevent than to regret, in some way today we are regretting what has happened, but we are also under the obligation, and I believe that in the right way, to try to prevent what can happen, so that these economic and social tensions do not arise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u73	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Molina, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u74	Thank you, President of the legislature, Chief, congressman, everyone, good morning. Today we are discussing the other proposal as presented by the popular party, the serious state of ice on the vineyards of the historical territory of the Araba, 2017th April. In fact, in the early morning of April 28, the thermometers fell to 4 degrees below zero in certain areas of Rioja Alavesa and the Ayala Valley, causing very serious damage to the vineyards. In a few hours the winegrowers of Baños de Ebro, Elciego, Navaridas, Villabuena, Leza, Samaniego and Labastida saw how they lost their crops. In Ayala, municipalities such as Amurrio, Llodio and Okondo also lost their illusion by checking their losses. The frost was late and intense, and the consequences on the strain were lethal, because it cut its vegetation. The damage was greater because the sprout was well advanced for the time, so that the palm trees and the small clusters that were beginning to sprout were burned. Now the plant must resort to the reserves of the trunk, roots and soil to form new buds that reactivate the process, but without moisture this becomes complicated. Everything brings a much more complicated spergura, and let the work triple. Work that in turn translates into more costs. Some winegrowers, aware of their losses, even settle for the coming year to be pruned. On the same day in San Prudencio, Mr Aguinaco, the outlaw deputy of Agriculture, went to the region of Rioja Alavesa to check first hand the damage caused by the frost and to talk to the winegrowers and mayors of the affected municipalities. And the next day he did the same in Amurrio. During the following days, the Basque Government and Parliament met with sectoral actors to assess the situation and the possible consequences. So from the very first moment we are working in a coordinated way and in contact with those affected. That date so marked for us the Alavese ended with much of the production and the spirit of the winegrowers of Ayala and Rioja Alavesa. But we must also remember that other sectors such as cereals, barley, beans or peas suffered the same frost, and that in some cases the impact is still to be determined. Rioja Alavesa lives for and for wine. And, although the frost was widespread, due to the orography of the region the level of affection is different depending on the plot, the municipality and the area. Initially, there was talk of damage to around 90% of production, and perhaps this is the case in certain areas. In others, perhaps 5%, or zero. In any case, we must rely on recovery, since even the harvest, as has been said, will not know exactly the real impact. The strain is a strong plant, resistant, with deep roots, with an exceptional capacity of adaptation, and lasting in addition, which is exposed to a number of phenomena throughout its life and which, fortunately, is recovered obviously thanks to the care, effort and mime of the winegrowers, who strive to mitigate the damage and in which the fruit returns to the strain. Of course, this situation has caused uncertainty, sadness and discouragement in the region. Waiting without despair and without stopping work is what farmers have ahead of them. They are, on the other hand, also accustomed and unprotected to weather conditions. Since last April 28, the vision has changed, and although the vineyards are still weak due to the lack of rain, they have evolved something. And that's why I insist that until the campaign we won't know what the final photo will be. The amount of grape production will be tarnished, but quality will not. We know that the best way to protect farms is through insurance. They are not a secret formula, because they do not guarantee or return the harvest, but at least avoid losing everything and allow them to recover some money so that they can cover costs when there are no benefits. It is true that in Rioja Alavesa the insurance percentage is only around 40%. First, for cultural reasons (when you suffer a weather disaster, you never think it can happen to you for five years in a row). Second, because it's not cheap. Third, because currently only 60 cents per kilo are charged. Fourthly, by microparcelation; because, even if it freezes or falls stone in certain places, it does not usually do so throughout the farm, and insurance forces to secure the entire farm. We must also bear in mind that ice is not usually an insurable practice, and there are winegrowers who secure their farms for certain meteorological effects, but not against all. Despite that 40%, it is increasing. Mrs López de Ocariz said no; I say yes, because in 2015 it was 27%, and now we are in 40. And this happens for two reasons. First, because in Rioja Alavesa in the last six campaigns there have been serious episodes, in which the production has been so affected that we have scarmed. As I mentioned before, no one believed that these circumstances could be repeated five years in a row, but it happens. I'm telling you, I'm from Villabuena, and we haven't escaped this bad weather for a year. Look: in 2012, hail; in 2013, ice; in 2014, stone; in 2015, stone; 2016, paradoxically, it was so good that because of the amount of grapes we were forced to cut it and leave it in the field. And now in 2017 the frost returns. Is it, or isn't it, to be clumsy? And then the second reason is thanks to the work being done by the current Álava Foral Diputación, which has relied on aid to encourage recruitment. When the PNV returned to the parliament, it increased its aid from €40,000 in 2015 to €100,000 in 2016, and to €125,000 this year. Moreover, it has already expressed its commitment to increase the departure for the next financial year and to improve the conditions of insurance so that they are affordable and adapt to a quality viticulture like the one we have. Therefore, a further demonstration of the commitment of the Basque Nationalist Party to farmers and to the protection of agriculture. That is why we have signed a compromise amendment with the People's Party, which, as you have already explained here, I will briefly comment on so as not to insist on it. But the Basque Government is urged to draw up the regulations for the disaster fund within five months. If there is any interest, Mrs López de Ocariz, and I know that there is already a draft of the decree. Regardless of that, even if this fund was developed today we know that it would not have covered the frost, because the Act on Agricultural and Food Policy of the Basque Country says that the beneficiaries will be those who are not included in the agrarian insurance plans. And we're also talking about climate damage, not catastrophic. On the second point, that, in coordination with the parliaments, and with the agreement of the committees on agricultural policy, awareness-raising campaigns should be launched. Our group considers it important that they continue to be implemented so that that percentage that I have mentioned to you before will continue to increase and our farmers will be protected. As well as technical and training advice to alleviate the consequences that the sector may suffer. This measure has already been implemented both in the Ayala Valley and in Rioja Alavesa, where talks have been offered with technicians from the sector. In the third point, we also considered it essential to encourage the procurement of insurance by means of different measures in the granting of such aid in order to make it more affordable for farmers. And at the last point, to defend the interests of wine producers in all sectoral and administrative areas, proposing amendments to the 2017 marketing standard, and to study this possible exceptional flexibility of the yield of the vineyard, which, as Mr Prieto has explained, is the competence of the regulatory council, which establishes a quota of kilos that farmers have to collect, regardless of the kilos that they can give them the farm. So we think he's a good middle-class one. We try to defend the protection of our farmhands against the damages caused by the weather. This protection is necessary to the sector of winemaking, which is our symbol of identity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Molina. The next round of the group that has not issued any corrections is Mrs. García, representing Podemos together.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u76	Mila esker, Tjeria anderea. Egun where you're going. Good morning, everyone, and thank you very much, Madam President. Since the early morning of 28 April this year there have been strong frosts that affected an important area of Rioja Alavesa, as well as in the Ayala Valley to the Txakoli vineyards. And, although it is not the subject of this initiative presented here today by the Basque People's Group, it must be remembered that it also affected extensive peas, beans and early barley crops in the Plains and Alaves valleys. This situation puts at risk the year-round income of more than eight hundred families that depend on the results of a crop that is subject to variable time and phenomena such as droughts, frost or hail. To begin with, it must be said that the damage not only has to do with the frost of 28 April, but with the advanced situation of cultivation, for a typically warm spring and a prolonged drought, which are a direct consequence of the climate change that we so little like to talk about. As mentioned in the previous interventions, 95 % of the vineyard has been affected, and we do not yet know how much of the plants can be recovered, despite the fact that there is a drop in production of between 35 and 45 %. For this recovery it is necessary to take into account the reserves with which the trunk, roots and soil count to form new green shoots, and the reality is that there was hardly any water on the ground, and the 2016 harvest, with yields above normal, made the vineyard arrive in April especially weakened. Now it is time to attend each plot individually and manually, because they have different degrees of affection; to have knowledge and technicians of the Wine House, HAZI, UAGA, ABRA, all the institutions, that, together with the sector, help to do the most suitable work possible for the vineyard. Replay working hard, tempering, watering and trying to recover the raw material, and look to the sky for it to rain. Months of waiting ahead to know how much it will recover and what the quality of that grape will be. The question we ask ourselves is: What can we do from the institutions and from this House to alleviate the damage that has occurred in the sector? From Elkarrekin We believe that it is essential to increase awareness campaigns among the wine-growing sector about the importance of having contracted a vineyard insurance. We know that it is subsidized, and that in spite of everything it does not reach 40% the insured area, in addition to being mostly the large wineries that assure, and not the small winegrower. It is absolutely necessary to hire these insurances, given the uncertainty generated by weather phenomena, uncontrollable and unpredictable, and the great variability of weather events that occur in spring. Insurance is the ideal coverage mechanism for winegrowers to cope with these situations that they know and suffer. You can't play a year's rent on a card, having the option to secure. From what is our responsibility, we must help to increase the campaigns in favour of securing the vineyard. It is also important to continue to increase economic support for the hiring of vineyard insurance, and to work together with the sector and insurance companies to achieve improvement in the agricultural insurance guarantee and in the tariffs. It is true that agricultural insurance, agro-insurance, is not a competition transferred to the Basque Country, but it is the competence of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment, which devised a strategy for all Spanish wine-growing and which for farmers in Rioja Alavesa is not interesting, in addition to having an important cost. Nor is it subsidized by European funds, so we will have to rethink the insurance, franchise model, because they have to secure the whole operation, and this is a major investment that is not easy to access. In Rioja Alavesa there are very small plots spread, and that means a great variability in terms of the damage of the climatology, so we must focus on improving the conditions of those insurances, which can at least give oxygen in order to be able to continue. We find it essential to work in coordination with the sector on effective anti-ice methods. Prevention and detection are essential when designing strategies to combat these incidents. In the area of Artomaña they are prepared for the frosts: after that happened in 1999 they learned that the ice is fought with wind, smoke and water, and they invested in a water raft and the installation of a system of sprinklers that activate and water the vineyard when there are frosts. Of 22 hectares, 16 hectares are protected by this method. And these kinds of solutions must also be worked out for Rioja Alavesa, and not leave the future in the hands of climatological luck. We also believe it is important to provide fiscal compensation, advance in the collection of subsidies, soft credit lines and palliative methods that can help people affected by these frosts. From Elkarrekin We can always defend inter-institutional coordination, and in this case it seems logical and we support that since the Álava Foral Diputation, and with the participation of all the actors in the sector, the creation of a technical commission that evaluates the damage and coordinates the measures to be taken is encouraged. And, in this same line, also equip the Foral de Álava to prepare a report or study on possible measures to prevent these atmospheric variations, which are a direct consequence, I repeat, of climate change. Well, both the PP's initial proposal and the amendments tabled by other groups had quite a lot of points in common and made similar requests, so at first when I read them, and seeing the background of last week in the Álava Foral Diputation, I understood that we were going to reach a consensus and that it was the way we had to go. However, in this House, which we very much like to talk about the relationship and the different policies that some parties make between Madrid and Euskadi, I find here with the surprise that at five hundred meters, in the institution next door, a consensus was reached a week ago, and now we are here with an amendment fucked and with two groups without having sex, because one of the points, number 4, was removed, was rejected in the compromise amendment that was agreed in the Foral Diputación de Álava, and yet here it has been included. And I also need to be explained, because, aside from the fact that it doesn't make much sense when you read it, and maybe it's my business, but I can't understand the difference between that paragraph and the initial one presented by the People's Party, it basically has to do with removing the word "Rioja Qualified Denomination Regulatory Council." And you, Mrs López de Ocariz and Mr Prieto, know that it is the plenary of the Regulatory Council of the DOC Rioja that dictates the rules of the harvest campaign, that set the production yields for the different varieties, and the agreements have to be with 75% of the votes. The representatives of Rioja Alavesa interested in that happening will not reach that necessary majority. They know that this objective of the regulatory council to start with the control of yields by plots will be postponed for at least one year, until other measures are taken that reconcile the different sensitivities. There are already many campaigns in which in areas with greater mechanization, lower costs, lower climate risks and higher yield is where money is made with the vineyard. Which wouldn't be questionable if you were betting on quality too, but this won't be a fact until differentiating, from the vineyard to the label, the various models and wines of the Rioja. Climate change has come to stay, so it is obvious that we cannot continue in the area with such a low level of insurance among farmers. And it is the only preventive treatment they can do to keep personal projects and the future of many winegrowers from freezing. Among all of us, it is up to us to think about the strategies and forms that immunize the lavish agriculture in the face of other kinds of natural disasters, whether droughts, frosts or hails. Let us hope that the climatology, and above all the good work of our winegrowers, will recover as much as possible of the vines affected by the frost, as has already happened in other frosts, such as that of 1999 already mentioned. A few days ago we could read that in txakoli vineyards we have to wait until July to see how the vineyard evolves, but that it would have affected 28%, and in Rioja Alavesa we will also wait for careful analysis, farm by farm, as well as for work and climate to make it possible to recover the raw material so necessary for winegrowers and winegrowers. From Elkarrekin We want to reach out and continue working not only occasionally for the agricultural and rural world of Euskadi, for the small farmers and producers, so that we can find among all the best solutions and reach a consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Passing it to the turn of the answers, the representative of the American Basque Group, Mrs. lópez de Ocarariz, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u78	Firstly, I would like to thank the groups which, as I said earlier, have made this compromise amendment possible. The spokesman for the EH Bildu group told us that, well, this is the consequence of climate change. I like to talk more about global warming, because in the end we are talking about an increase in the temperature of the climate system, its effects, and therefore what we are talking about is global warming. But you, who know the field well, know that atmospheric events that have affected productions have been there all your life. And there's also been cycles. That we have a warm-up now? For, indeed, we have global warming, and that also makes them less predictable or more aggressive, but agrarian activity has been linked to adverse weather events, and there we are. And on the thread of this you were talking to me about catastrophic damage and damage (was it you...?, I think so, or the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist group)... , climatological damage. In the end catastrophic damage is climatic damage of extraordinary dimensions. What needs to be defined is when we define an area, by the degree of affection, as catastrophic or not. That must also be valued in the development of the law and article, because in the end catastrophic damage on many occasions is a climatic damage of extraordinary proportions. It is therefore not disconnected from climatology in some cases. The spokesman for the Podemos Group, if he has not made an amendment, can hardly participate in the compromise amendment. I'm sorry, but it's the reality. They were talking about point 4 of the compromise amendment, and what we are saying in point 4 of the compromise amendment is that we urge the Basque Government to defend the interests of wine producers in all sectors and administrative areas. Also in the regulatory council, because it has a voice and vote. The regulatory council is chosen by the producing sector for an election, there is a system of choice. We'll like it more or less, but it's the system that has the advice. And in the council all participate in the proportion that one day they determined. What you have to do, if anyone wants to change it, is make proposals for modifications, and if they go ahead... And if not, no. In the end, I understand that it is a sector of very disproportionate dimensions. I fully understand that this is a very disproportionate sector. That's why small wineries are grouped in an organization, and those small wineries have their representation. Management is complicated, but work will have to be done to improve that. And I think there's a way to work on how we do some subsectors within that denomination, how we do some area ratings, and we're moving forward. And I can tell you that we are much better than a year ago, moving forward in the negotiation of this whole sector, and that we are working. It doesn't come out in the papers, but it's working and it's moving forward. I am therefore optimistic that, sooner than later, there will be some normality and some guarantee that smaller producers and wineries will also have their representation and their ability to specify their area in their productions. Therefore, I am positive in that sense, and I believe that we are at a time of an extraordinary tune that has not been so far. So, let's take this opportunity and move on. When we talk about changing the campaign rules, in fact, the designation of origin board establishes campaign rules according to all producers – I suppose by filing each part of their petitions – and the possibility of flexibility is being explored. This time, therefore, the harvest has been made in green, and the frost has been very untimely. As has been said here, on other occasions it has had to be harvested in forced green, because the production was very sized for what the council marks. In the end what we are seeing is, at this moment when there is going to be a low production in some vineyards, because there will be fewer clusters, indeed, how we make it more flexible so that we can also get in there wine that they have from last year, or not, or yes... Anyway, I think it's an internal management system that they themselves are the ones who know how to... That is why we say that we study within the council what, of course, does not favor the one who has not been affected, and that the one who is harmed does not feel protected or improved in his percentage. I believe that this system is for them who should really be interested or not. Some ask, some don't. In short, that's why we say the possible flexibility, and let it be studied. We leave it there, and it is they in their environment who develop it. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. The representative of the EH team, Mrs Lopez de Lariyabe, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u80	Hello again. Thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. I will be honest with you, Mrs López de Ocariz: when I wrote yesterday afternoon the reply put in the beginning "I thank the People's Party for giving us the opportunity to fuck", but when I arrived today morning and I find the transaction already signed, when EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos have left us out, I think the objectives seem to be not the same. Because suddenly you have some mandate, I don't know where, not to sign with us something in which in principle the objectives are as clear as supporting the producing sector, as it cannot be otherwise, encouraging such measures, supporting to ensure... I'm surprised, I'm absolutely sincere, and I'm disappointed too. Not only am I sincere, but I am disappointed, not only with the People's Party, but also with the Basque Nationalist Party. Why? Because last week we lived a similar motion – someone named it – at the General Councils of Álava, and it was very funny, because there were absolutely contradictory messages. That is, while last week's PNV removed the flexibility of performance from the motion, today it places it. So, the first thing he does is give me chills the ability to say different things in one camera or the other. I will be optimistic: if we say different things, it is that we still have hope. The objectives which are the same? I understand that yes, I've said it before. Mr. Prieto, it's not that you don't understand point 4, I understand it perfectly, but two things in point 4. First of all, it is not well drafted, because the regulatory board has to be appointed. Then, the Basque Government urges that no one know who to open the yields, nor who to... Let's see, let's let the Basque government work. We all know how much the Basque Government has and how much weight it has on the regulatory council, which is rather little, things are said here... The weight on the regulatory board is on big companies, big warehouses, and if they want we give them names, data, and who's going to be our next president. Thank you, by the way, you don't guarantee anything either. Our goal as EH Bildu, objective number one, is to reach agreements, because we will put the primary sector, not only when there is a frost on April 28 at night, but every day – and it is an obsession –..., put the primary sector at the top and protect it as far as we can. But, of course, by signing some yes and others not, and with strategies various electoralists, of demagogy and of talking to anyone who wants to hear us and who is going to vote for us, honestly, I don't understand anything. I'm going to end the issue of climate change. Well, it can be called global warming. I believe that these days in Paris we are talking about climate change. Moreover, we have data on the table..., I will not dare to read them because they are not from my harvest, but they say that the grapes are already being affected by climate change. I mean, we're not making it up. It's affecting, right. And – I told you before – when I read today in the newspaper that Mr Trump – we are told – now, all of a sudden, this morning he is going to warn us that he is leaving the pact... Please don't let anyone fight climate change! It is everyone's responsibility, and in that sense we will be there. And I'm just finishing up. I was asking for an explanation for point number four... I will ask for a vote on points, if possible, the first three on one side and the fourth on the other, and I would appreciate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u81	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u82	Thank you, President. Just to add an idea, which I have not expressed before. And it is that for a time the grape producers who have been very affected will also need soft financing to be able to maintain their farms, and I think that is also an element on which, although not expressly reflected in the proposal, we should think and try to help. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u83	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Mrs. Molina, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u84	Thank you. Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe, do not be disappointed, because we know here that the General Councils are one institution and this Parliament is another. You're part of both, you'll have to know. Just like the decisions when we urge, that, even if they are asked, we urge different. And then the Basque Government has a voice in the Rioja Denomination Regulatory Council, and that is why it will take care of the interests. The House cannot do so; that is why we have added that point. And I must also say that it is obviously not a whim for farmers not to be assured. I have already explained that there is more than one reason not to do so, even if progress is being made. I would also like to say to Mrs García that, in fact, five hundred metres away, her group has tabled an amendment; it has therefore been able to reach an agreement. You have not done so, and perhaps here in this institution you do not have as much interest as you have there in the Alavese farmers. I don't know, you'll know that, but, well, you could have made improvements or measures that you would have wanted to do. And nothing else. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Molina. And finally, the representative of the Podemos, Mrs García. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u86	Nothing, just reiterate the request of the EH Bildu group, to be able to vote on 1, 2 and 3 as a whole, and on 4 separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. The discussion's over and we'll vote, but before the vote starts, it's asked for stitches. I don't know if there's any problem. Ahay algún problema votar por tip? No. Then, since the discussion has ended, we will vote for the popular Euscalia, the Sociists, and the Eunciists, the former half-correction which the Euncists have signed, the second and the third points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 72; the votes are 74; the supporters are 74; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; the abstainations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u88	So the first three points have been unanimously accepted. Next, we vote for the fourth point. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 72; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 45; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 29.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-01.u89	So the fourth point is accepted. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and forty-eight.
