ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "Luis Javier Tellería Sheetols Eubertarian Group Member of Economics to the Chief of Economics and Sub-Sertains to change his way of organising the Basque Technology Agents." Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u1	Thank you, ma'am. Presidents, chiefs, congressmen, cool good days to all. At the start of the '90s, a major economic crisis hit the Basque industry firmly. From that moment on, apart from the specific programs of reorganising the industry that had been very successful, a strategy started with the companies to produce technological centers specialized in different areas. Despite the fact that R & D had not been fully transferred to Euskadi until 2008, the Basque Government, in an extraordinary budgetary effort, succeeded in creating, together with the Basque industry, a diverse network of technology centres which, in a short time, acquired relevance at state and even European level. These technological centres, together with the Administration's own, especially those linked to the primary food sector, were setting up a system of R & D that allowed us to present ourselves abroad in a relevant way and with the capacity to collaborate and exchange knowledge, mainly with our European environment. Soon afterwards, we began to encourage the cooperative centres of research. These were smaller, but they had a spec: that they were colaborative centres, magnificent, scientific, technological, strategic areas, in short: More specialized. Already between 2005 and 2010 steps were taken to unite efforts in some technological centers, concluding in the fusion of several of them around Tecnalia, or the specialized and coordinated functioning of IK4. To all this continued a work of his department, both in the administrative area, with the approval in 2015 of a decree to reorder the Basque network of technological centers, as well as the whole approach RIS3 of intelligent specialization, which they introduced with preference in the Plan of Science and Technology and Innovation approved the last legislature. We are, therefore – as are the ecosystems of nature, which evolve to the state of equilibrium, maturity and maximum resilience – facing a gradual process of reformulation of technological centres and of research and innovation policy, where specialization seems to be the common denominator. Perhaps the announcement he made last week about the work undertaken by the Basque Government to create a new Basque technological entity that would consider all technological centres and cooperative research centres might be trumped up in this way. Well, knowing with more concreteness that announcement is why today we would like you to be able to explain to us what reasons have prompted you and your department to make this change in the Basque technological structures, as well as what objectives you seek and what time frame you intend to make them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u2	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Presidents, chiefs and congressmen, good days to all. I'll admit, Mr. Tellegio, based on technology and private political cooperation, what we discussed at this moment is a special and hopeful initiative. We always say that our country is small, that it has a very complex technological network, very wide, very strong, if we look closely, but if we consider the atomic from the level of the nation. There are many of them, with great abilities, the results are getting better and better, but in this way of improvement we have one more step to make. There have been several steps in the Euskal technology, as you have mentioned, and what we have hitherto done has been productive, but we have decided to form a Basque entity. One entity that's going to be all under a single mark. And this means that they will not set themselves in one company or centre, but that each one will continue his autonomy, but that they will all work with one purpose, and that they will represent us as a people. From the Basque institutions we have been making an important effort, maintaining, through research, technological innovation, the approach to the market, the transfer to our companies..., ultimately the creation of wealth and well-being in our economic fabric, modernizing it and making it compatible with current needs. As a result of this strategy we have modified the Basque Network of Science, Technology and Innovation, and we have made it specialized, close to the market and excellent. With these objectives we have put in place a network management that has already begun to bear fruit, but at the moment the main core, as far as development and innovation technology is concerned, are working on the network, it is true, they are improving their strategy, but we want to take one more step. We have launched, as you said, the RIS3, the strategy of intelligent specialization, which allows us to focus on what we are going to investigate in this country; we have changed the situation of our centers, we have made them more understandable; we have specialized in R & D, we have brought it to market, yes, but we need to recognize ourselves in the world. We need to be like other countries in which there is a single brand with common objectives, with an attraction of investments of European projects in this case, but also of well-trained people who know what their professional career is, that we manage patents in an appropriate way... In short, that we are able to have a more efficient and effective instrument and that, while allowing the autonomy of each of these centers, with their particular objectives, allows us to collaborate much more effectively, and that companies know perfectly who they are coming to and what services they are going to get. To that end, we have become operational. This entity will have within itself, will cover the Tecnalia Research & Innovation, Azti and Neiker centres, the nine IK4 centres, and the four CICs at this time. Therefore, there are sixteen centers within that single entity, for which we are addressing its legal form, and we hope that by June 2018 we can have the brand in the market, with a unique innovation strategy and a way to attract people with a uniform career. And from there, before January 2020 we hope to have all the work done. We are working with the centres, as we have always done, and we are coming to this Parliament to report on the progress that is being made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, "about the state of the Sitmens-Gamesa, of the Department of Econoso Alonso EH Collectors in the Department of Economics, and of the Sub-Semensa Company." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u5	Good morning. The multinational company Siemens-Games has recently announced a release of 6,000 workers. He said he'd throw a quarter of the map out. This news has caused some uneasiness throughout the world, and even in ours, because it can't be forgotten the origin of that company, in some measure, is a Basque because there's a company there. It was agreed in 2016, and it took place in 2017, from a process of fusion or summation, because the Siemens-Games were created (some of us said in that moment that it was more appropriate to speak of a creation than fusion, seen in the unbalanced size of the swallows). He called it a rifle or an abdication, which has happened in July, as soon as the company set out for its course, and said that the predictions were not fulfilled. The revenue reduced the predictions, and, consequently, entered into a negative spiral as far as the settlement of the stocks. The final conclusion was to announce these 6,000 releases. Considering the apartment of this company in the Basque Country, 1600 workers at Navarre and there are 700 other EAEs, we ask the chief physician how to invest, he thinks, he's had his jobs and his new careers.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u6	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u7	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Casanova, it is true that several things have happened after the foundation, but I want to remember what we said in June 16: that the foundation for us, as a country, and for our corporations, for Siemens-Games, was a proper position. And we're still keeping that up. And not just from the point of view of our suppliers, but... Well, Markus Tack, the new director, said in June 17, that in the month of June, there was a place in Zamudin and that it was important for him to connect to its roots and its roots. So, in that sense, I think it's obvious, and that's what we need to be aware of. In the year 2016, it is true that the petitions of our providers have been increased and that this engagement is fulfilled, but, as you mentioned, it is true that the amount of difference has been effected (not only by the Siemens-Games, but Vestas has said that the situation has changed this week, that they will increase it in the demands, but also that the margs will decrease.) Therefore, there is a change, and this concerns us somehow, but we must know that after a foundation such things always happen, more than we think, it is true. We've had a meeting with the company, and they've transmitted, as you know, no impact on production plans. I mean: As for our compatriots, neither Mungiian nor Tustery, as the chief physician in Navarre has told me, and in a small margen, it is true, he will be at Zamudium, but they have told us that he will be small. As long as we're dealing with the workers, we don't know the numbers. And we really hope that the word should be fulfilled and so done, and that we will really continue to believe in the suppliers and work with them as we do now.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u9	There is only one acceptable number of layoffs in Euskadi in Siemens-Gamesa, and that number is zero. There are problems associated with the wind market, there are problems associated with the merger or absorption process itself, and there are problems related to the fact that Siemens-Gamesa has become a multinational to use and works with the logic of these multinationals. In 2016, before the merger, Gamesa had a historical record (300 million profit, and expectations of improvement for the 2017 financial year), and its president, Ignacio Martín, said: "Gamesa" – after the merger – "did not need any operation, because it had its road map and the wind in favour, but the company saw an important consolidation opportunity". We see that things don't seem to go that way. Gamesa was a strategic company because of its value, it had more value on the stock exchange than all the Basque listed industrial companies together, because of the number of jobs (I have already said that in Euskal Herria more than 2,300) and because of its weight in the network of suppliers of the country, and, as a strategic company it was, we believe that it should have maintained another evolution. Because becoming a multinational leads you to respond to the logic of multinationals. Yesterday we saw how General Electric was acting, and now we see how, at the beginning of the change, a multinational is acting: at the moment when it begins to lower the stock market value, it decides to respond to the gods of the market to the old custom, making human sacrifices, in this case of 6,000 workers. And, although Euskal Herria is a small number, it is unacceptable for a company to act like this when it might have another type of performance. A company that, let's not forget, when the absorption occurs is paid by Gamesa to its shareholders a bonus of 1 billion euros, 1 billion euros to be distributed. And after having won 300 million in 2016, after having distributed 1 billion euros in bonuses, after having already done a very own process of re-adjustment of staff in 2012 at Gamesa, which is now being claimed that the multinational will have new layoffs is unacceptable. Basque companies, if they have financing needs, if they have capitalization needs, must have the resources to do so, without becoming multinationals that respond to a logic that is not that of an industrial model rooted in the country, consciously and with social responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u10	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u11	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Casanova, it is one thing that we want to close our eyes to what's happening in the world, but we must remember that we also have multinationals, locals, signs here and in the world. And not just multinational companies, local corporations, worldwide, faked in many places without multinational and non-commissioned. So I don't think we should close our eyes. Right now, I was saying, we have 810 Basque suppliers from the Gamesa company. In 2016, 20% of the contract went to its suppliers. And I will not be the one to defend the Gamesa-Siemens company, because they will defend themselves, but I am interested in defending our suppliers and knowing that they will continue to work for Gamesa-Siemens. And in that sense there is one aspect that I would like to highlight: at the moment they are the only company that is working with all its suppliers on an advanced management project to improve the management, financing and opportunities that these suppliers have not only today, but in the future, in the merged Gamesa. And I want to point out that it is the only company that had started to do so and that maintains that commitment. That means that from the Basque Government we will be able to continue to collaborate with the Energy Cluster and with the company Gamesa-Siemens to make those projects that can come out of those improvements that have to be made in our suppliers make those suppliers competitive, not only for Gamesa-Siemens, but for the entire wind sector. I think we really need to focus on being a competitive country, and that's what we can do in this case by the hand of Gamesa, because she has that commitment. And the same can be done with other companies, whether local or international. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Third point in theme list: "The question is, Lander Martíne, made together by the Congress of the Podemos to the president about the business companies that are in a crisis." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u13	Good morning. Mr. President, we've been watching a lot of industrial companies suffer in the past few months. Besides, the RedMork has counted more than 30 companies in this state, and there are a lot of people who have problems with this kind of work. Lehendakari jauna, do you plan to meet personally with workers affected by the industrial crisis?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u14	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Good morning, Mr Martínnez. Look, we're in touch with all the companies in the crisis like we're having a good time with everybody. We've got a relationship with workers and directors and owners, even with investors. All of them. To find and facilitate solutions, with a certain purpose, in the circle of our cares; the maintenance of activity and employment. Mr Martínez, I am informed on time of the situation and evolution of the companies in crisis, of each and every one of them. The Government is in constant contact with workers, shareholders, managers and potential investors also, in an orderly and comprehensive manner, responding directly to every specific need that arises for us. The companies are managers, workers, shareholders united in a common project, and I assure you, Mr Martínez, that we are in contact with everyone, because they are all important to take the project forward. And I explained to him in the general policy debate what are the working formulas that we have before these situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u17	Look, Mr Lehendakari, in our view, the great problem you and your Government have is precisely your lack of involvement with these companies in crisis. And this is clearly perceived with the little or no enthusiasm that you have just demonstrated. And that lack of enthusiasm is the same when it comes to offering solutions to the problems of these companies. Because there are numerous times when we have told you that the weakness of industrial policy, of its industrial policy, is the attention and response that you give to companies in difficulty. We've told him more than once, and we've told him since Elkarrekin We can. But above all, the workers themselves have told them. And the worst part is they don't fix it. And they don't correct it because they have no interest. This is a government that is apathetic to an industrial crisis that is taking on thousands of jobs and dozens of businesses, and this apathy is sincerely hurtful to the thousands of workers who are being affected. It is a very insensitive government to the suffering of thousands of Basque families who see their livelihood in danger. There are many places where you have to be, there are many places where the lehendakari has to be, many places where you have to represent your Government, but none is so necessary, none is as unreplaceable and it is as urgent as to approach people who suffer the consequences of their bad policies, of inefficient policies; of policies that, when they are unable to reverse the situation, are directly responsible for having arrived at them, as has happened in Enkarterri with CEL, or in the Left Margen with the Naval, or in Lower Deba with Xey, or in Edesa..., and the list is much longer. If there's a place where the lehendakari has to be personally, it's giving support to those people who see how their future slips out of their hands in the form of an unfair closure of their workplace. And it is that there is never time in their agenda, nor in that of the counselor, to listen to these workers, nor to show them solidarity or closeness. Not a few company committees have complained bitterly about the bad attitude of your advisor, Mr Lehendakari. It's just that on this lehendakari's agenda there's no place for anything that bothers Confebask! The only thing that Basque citizenship sees is a counselor, Mrs Tapia, speaking as if she were the employer or as if she were the voice of the company, and forgetting at all times to claim the demands and concerns of the workers. A government is a government of all, but above all it is a government of those who have a hard time. You know quite well that in politics gestures mean a great deal, and the gestures of your Government show to the clear that the lehendakari is strong with the weak and weak with the strong. You are forgotten, and you are forgotten, that a company in difficulty requires the commitment of all parties, and the first and greatest commitment is always that of the templates. But their answer is to turn their backs, to ignore them, and also to despise them. In short, the problem, Mr Urkullu, is that you aim to take the picture at all the openings, but never faces the closures of the companies. I know you're going to answer that I do populism, but you know perfectly well that's true. And he doesn't look because he knows he can't look the workers in the eyes without having to bend his gaze. Euskadi cannot have a lehendakari who does not know or can look into the eyes of a worker.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u18	Thank you, Mr Martínez, your time is up. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martinez, I am not going to accuse you of populism; all I am going to say is that nothing you have said is true. Nothing's true. Look, the economic situation, business support and employment is also the main occupation of the Government as a whole. We spare no effort or time. And I could tell you a lot of meetings I've attended. You will not quote me from a company in crisis that has not been served by the government with closeness and willingness to seek a solution. An example. A week ago at this hour I visited a limited labour society that has overcome a serious crisis, and has gone ahead, also for the support of the Basque Government in these years of mandates of the lehendakari Iñigo Urkullu Renteria. I was with the workers, and they thanked the government for its support. There he noticed the realism and commitment with which they had all acted. Reytero: the company is a shared project, and only in this way, from the internal impulse, can they come forward. From the shared project. The Government will continue to prioritize support for businesses, all of them, realistically, clearly speaking and without demagoguery, Mr Martínez. We support competitiveness in critical areas: innovation, internationalisation, job-generating investment, financing, cooperation or training. We will keep all the tools at the disposal of companies with a proactive attitude: Bideratu, Luzaro, Gauzatu, Socade, Ezten, Ekarpen, Lanpar, are instruments at the disposal of companies, instruments in operation that result and contribute to maintaining activity and employment. We act with realism and closeness, side by side with the company. I do not deny the difficulties, but neither can I deny that in four years the industry has grown in Euskadi and created jobs. We are in a market economy open to global competition, as has been seen in the previous question. Companies in crisis and difficulties have existed, exist and will exist, and anyone who says otherwise is naive, or pretends to hide the truth. Some companies emerge from the crisis thanks to the efforts of all the project components (of all shareholders, investors, managers and workers), and the Government and the lehendakari do what they have to do: accompany, help, collaborate, solidarity with the weakest social part, seek new investors, make available aid programmes within the legal framework of the European framework. In short, we are involved with the aim of moving the project forward. That is the role of the Basque Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary laws of the Euscal Socilists of the House of Environments, Land Planets, and Housing Department, concerning the measures planned by the Environment, Land Planning, and Housing Department in the reconnaissance of the city." Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u21	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Counsellor, within the different appearances that we have been able to hear about the different policies that you want to implement from your department, and more specifically in everything concerning the housing area, you have made it very clear to us that on the one hand there are policies for the empowerment of rent, and on the other hand there are also policies for the rehabilitation of housing and urban regeneration, which on the other hand constitute a very important part of the Housing Act adopted by this Parliament in 2015. Two extremely important issues, which are also a priority for the Basque Socialists. We highly value the built city, the improvement of living conditions in our citizens, and of course that these improvements include improvements in accessibility and also improvements in energy efficiency. Therefore, the regeneration of degraded urban areas in our cities and villages also has a dual effect. First, to improve the living conditions of our citizens, but it also aims to limit the effect of land occupation, which is on the other hand a rather scarce resource in our community, given the orographic conditions we have. Euskadi has a very old building park, because, among other issues, during the industrial boom, there in the 1960s, it was built a lot in a short space of time, and that building park has become aged. And we already know that this is synonymous with problems of conservation, of maintenance, also of lack of accessibility, in terms of safety, of poor behaviour in the field of energy efficiency, which I believe is an objective, that of correcting those issues, which must be a priority on the part of your department. In other words, these buildings will require very significant deep rehabilitation interventions over the coming years. And that is where it is essential not only to involve the Government, its department, but also inter-agency collaboration, which is essential in this matter. Why? In order to be able to implement it, it is necessary to carry out information processes, accompaniment processes and social management in all the interventions, management of the aid that can be implemented from the different institutions. It therefore requires interinstitutional involvement to simplify, speed up procedures and make it possible. Therefore, through coordination between public and private actors, to address in a sustained way the interventions of rehabilitation, renewal, urban regeneration of greater entity, which also allows us to allow you to implement rehabilitation projects that not only cover specific housing, but also to be able to go to urban regeneration projects that affect entire neighbourhoods, is essential. Thus, given that we are committed to such policies and that your Government, or our Government, is also doing so, I would like to know what concrete measures your department intends to take in the area of urban regeneration and rehabilitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u22	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Andueza, indeed, the commitment to the rehabilitation of buildings and the regeneration and renovation of urban areas is a commitment of the government program and is part of our Bultzatu 2050 strategy, in which we are working. In Euskadi, as you said, we have an old built park, the oldest built park in southern Europe. We have 163,462 buildings, and 43% of them are built before 1961. There is a lot of work to be done, and a good example of all this we have had this same week in Sestao, presenting the rehabilitation of the house known as Casa del Arco, a historic housing building in the Txabarri district. That and other actions show that rehabilitating old buildings and renovating slums is not only something feasible, but also socially and environmentally profitable, because in doing so – as you said – we avoid consuming a scarce resource in Euskadi, which is soil, but we also invest in social integration and create economic activity and employment. For this reason, one in three euros from our department will go to actions for the rehabilitation of housing and urban regeneration. But we want to go beyond the classic isolated rehabilitation projects, focused on a single building. We want to address operations that cover broader residential areas, including whole neighbourhoods. And we want to do so through collaboration between institutions and public and private actors, and also by seeking support from European funds. With this goal we are designing a dynamic and sustained strategy over time, while we are already taking action. We will continue to promote the rehabilitation program of the area of Txabarri and El Sol in Sestao, and we are working on the energy efficiency project for the district of Coronation in Vitoria-Gasteiz. This same year we will close the commitments to advance the rehabilitation of the neighborhoods of Txomin Enea in Donostia-San Sebastián and Txonta in Eibar, and we are also in talks with the municipalities to start next year laboratory projects in different neighborhoods: Aramotz in Durango, Iñigo de Loyola in Irun, La Esperanza-Sassoeta in Lasarte-Oria, Otxarkoaga in Bilbao, and polygon Mendizabal-Esteban Orbegozo in Zumarraga. And for successive years we have started to contact other municipalities, such as Llodio, Portugalete, Soraluze or Pasaia, and we are also open to other initiatives in this direction. Of course, we will continue to support with the Renew plans the rehabilitation of buildings in fundamental aspects, such as accessibility or energy efficiency, but, I insist, I think we should concretely and concentrate on broader interventions, from block or neighborhood. And that is for obvious reasons: because they allow for a much greater social return on investment than isolated investments; because they have a powerful demonstration effect, which, in view of the results, encourages neighbours and public agents to join similar operations, and, above all, because they revitalise neighborhoods that are in great need of public investment and really favour the improvement of the quality of life and the social integration of people living in these residential areas of the towns and cities of Euskadi. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u24	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Five point in theme list: "To ask the question, Alfonso Alonso Arnegui Rausea, a member of the Popula team for the president, about the first year of the legislature." Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Lehendakari. You won't tell me that Fridays we don't bring you any questions for your political light, like today's, because you have to brag about the first year. It's been a year that you've had political stability, you've had budgets... It has been a year in which significant investments for the Basque Country have been announced by the Government of Spain. A year that, look, next week is the end of the year, and, as if it were a birthday present, the new law of the quota and the updating of the Concert will be passed in the Congress of Deputies, and that is a very important backbone for the heart of our self-government. Therefore, I understand that you have to be satisfied with these things. And some other measures: today that they were attifying the councilwoman, their industrial plan was presented! Maybe you're more self-critical than I am, and that's why I ask you how you value your first year.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u26	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, next week not yet, within 15 days is when we complete the year as a government. In any case, he asks me in such a skewed way that I would find it indecent to answer him manually, telling him, also in a skewed way, that the assessment is positive, and with this I would already be satisfied. But I tell you that the assessment is positive because we keep the word given. 95% of government programme commitments are under way; of the fifteen strategic plans, eleven are in force and four will be adopted this year, and eight of the twenty-eight legislative projects are already being dealt with in this Parliament. The 2017 Budget is implemented to the satisfaction, and we have approved the draft budget for 2018, referred to this House. And this budget also guarantees essential services, recovers investment, increases endowment to innovation and support to entrepreneurship, also guarantees stability, meets deficit and expenditure rule, and reduces debt. We have also adopted the Economic Revitalisation and Employment Plan 2020. The results are positive. Euskadi will grow by 2.9% this year, two tenths more than estimated. The industry has grown (see, even ELA in its own magazine recognizes that, except in specific cases, the industrial situation is good in Euskadi). Exports and tourism have grown, and employment has increased (in Lanbide there are 11,000 registered people less than a year ago). We have therefore laid the foundations, in a spirit of cooperation and agreement. We have shown, as you know, that the model of sustainable human development works. We don't see any need for radical twists, I hope neither do you. We appreciate what has been achieved, conscious of what remains to be done. Therefore, without complacency, a positive assessment, and conscious of what remains to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u29	I already knew he was going to like it, although I have seen him too complacent: 95% done already. I think, I'm going to tell you the truth, that 95% has already been set up and is quite complacent. But I will tell you the truth: you have been unable in this first year to address not one of the important reforms that Euskadi needs, neither in the area of education, nor in our system of social protection or support for the family and the demographic problem. In the issues that you yourself also marked and problems that we all shared, then we have not made progress in the reforms! In fact, what I told you seemed to me to have gone well, curiously, is all you have agreed with the People's Party. So, that's where they went very well. And it's been very good for the Basques as well. I'll tell you something. You went to Canada a few days ago, and from your trip we all learned that the Bank of Montreal is headquartered in Toronto; we didn't learn much more. I hope that you too will learn the value of political stability, because it is important. But in his absence, a tax reform was introduced here. A tax reform was introduced that now enters the general boards for their debate, negotiation and approval, which has not satisfied anyone, lacks ambition (people of their party said they were only "retouching"), harms the competitiveness of Basque companies; it leads to an anomalous situation, in which it turns out that we have an economic concert, we will strengthen it, but the economic concert serves Basques to pay more than those of the common system, and therefore does not contribute to making Euskadi an attractive place for investment and therefore powerful also for job creation. Employment that in the third trimester, according to the EPA, has had bad results in Euskadi, because it went up the unemployment. I therefore naturally share your assertion that much remains to be done. And I also share with you that radical turns are bad and that collaboration is what works and what can bear fruit for all: your Government, which I do not wish for failure, and for society as a whole. We too, from our political point of view. And that is why I reiterate to you that we have a commitment to dialogue and collaboration, that we are working to straighten out the bleakness and to correct the rift of fiscal reform, and that next year can be a good year, and it can be a year of political stability. But in order for that to happen – I will tell you clearly – we need you to get involved and we need you to exercise your leadership, because it basically depends on you that things can go well next year, that you have stability, that your government has the capacity to address the reforms that have pending and that you have not been able to channel in a first year, and therefore that we give good news and Basque is an attractive place. Get involved and help us settle the tax reform issue and come to an agreement, don't go to Canada in the next few weeks, be here working with us, and I assure you that if you exercise your leadership, things can go well.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u30	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, you can also work for Euskadi from Canada, I assure you. In any case, I see you quite complacent also on those issues that you appropriate for yourself in relation to the agreements with the Basque Government. Well, look, facts. I could quote you from the beginning of the works of the university hospital of Araba in Gasteiz to the agreement on the arrival of the high speed train to the capitals, the variant south railway, the new services in the hospital Urduliz, office of SPRI in London, line 3 of the metro, center of advanced aeronautical manufacturing, three university research centers, center of health of Amurrio and Amorebieta, bank of maternal milk, ertzain-etxea of Ondarroa, Plan of Science, Technology and Innovation, Strategy University and Company, dual training, Plan of Employment with 1,750 million, convention of capitality Vitoria-Gasteiz, center of cybersecurity, agreement with Cundinamarca and Quebec, public offers of employment for 13,500 new places until 2020 to improve the services of health, education and security... I could go on with what is the Basque Government's own. You're talking to me about tax matters. I have already answered this question in the previous plenary, and you have also asked me this question and I have already answered it in the area of competition. But you have no doubt that I am also involved in this issue, and with hope. Look, we have signed the concert agreement and the quota with the Spanish Government that guarantees fifteen years of financial and fiscal peace, and I hope that it will soon be ratified in Congress. ETA has been disarmed, and its prisoners have accepted the legal channels of insertion proposed by this Government. We have adopted the reports on outstanding transfers, and I hope that the Spanish Government will comply fully with the Statute of Autonomy, as demanded by this House. We have three years ahead, and a lot to do. We maintain the priority of generating employment and reducing unemployment below 10%, and that is one of the priorities of this government and I am involved in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Interpelation, made by the members of the Presidency Committee of the Pello Urizar Collection to the president, about the development of the self-gorganization." Mr. Urizar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u33	Thank you, ma'am. Twenty years has already elapsed since most of the euscal operators in 1997 expressed the necessity of passing the course of the State of Guernica. Twenty years. If, therefore, we must admit that the necessity of a new state has been insisted on, and that we are attempting to update it, none of these efforts have been successfully completed. Why didn't he get it? He's very clever for us: As to PP and PSOE, no will ever had any intention of agreeing with a new state. I shall say more, they have never had the will to enter a serious discussion. After all, they have a state model, a state model, whether federal or autonomical. Some say, you know, that today's model may already be acknowledged as a federal system, because in this model the level of national auto-bernus is almost over, because it has the topea, and consequently they are not ready to sit down and question the government obtained in 78. And what they're living in Catalonia in this last month is also a sign of the lack of will. Yesterday, in Maddalen Irries, the different institutions and representatives of Catalonia told us clearly all their efforts to speak, and all their answers were negative. And I believe that even yesterday, Josephba Egibare, when Catalan has decided the way of our own legislation, it has been because they have received no answer from Spain, and decided to make their own way, when they had no other choice. We've talked a lot about the one-sided and one-sided way in this Chamber. And again, I will say that the choice of the EH Collectations is to be concluded. But it is inevitable that some one on the other side of the table should have the decency to sit down, and, apart from sitting down, that this individual must have a small scheme for discussion and agreement. But we have never seen any design in this sense before, and have not seen it here, nor seen it in other places. It wasn't when President Ibarche brought the new stateal proposal to Madrid, and it wasn't as I said at present when we had all the proposals and efforts that have been made by the representatives of Catalan. And that's a one-sided decision. Don't sit down, don't express goodwill, that's a one-sided decision. I have to remember that in this member of Spain the Constitution of Spain was not admitted, or that the majority did not protect him. And what is plain in the compositions of this new frame is, that they would decide whether the several nations might have occasion for auto-bernation to reduce or mark the chances they might have. There are many problems in Catalonia that independence has caused. Yesterday Borja Sémper explained to us the porch of the apocalypse, and his problems are constantly asking you not to bring them to the Basque Country, as well as PP and PSOE. On the other hand, we believe that Catalonia or Catalonia has expressed a serious question of life. Once more, we must admit that we citizens of euscals have been doing so for a long time, that there is a question of life between us, and we're putting it on the table again. But we must admit that Catalan has achieved something more than we have, and that the question is that they have been able to extend it better than we have. The Socialist Party, probably from this influence, saw herself obliged to plan a commission on the model of the country, and thereby succeeded at least in drawing it to the popular party. And PSOE, according to what has been said, would be one of the object of this committee to establish a foundation for the variation of the constitution. There may have been a committee called P.P.O.E., perhaps, of P.P., but at least we believe that it will be a short life, according to Ciudadus and PP. he said that they did not approach the change of the Constitution to open the gates. PP obviously doesn't want to change the current frame. So another committee, perhaps to smoke, to feed the theoretical perhaps, but without any career at all. If this leaves us little hope of the already agreed road, we believe the situation may increase, because in the last few weeks, owing to other expressions, the symptoms are becoming more and more apparent. We have often discussed in this Chamber that the State of Guernica, accepted in 1979, has not been fulfilled. And according to some recent data, after 38 years of age, they're still going to transfer 37 jurisdictions. But I think he's taking another step at this moment from the Spanish Government, because although that's not enough, that is to say, the fulfilment of an organic law agreed on in '79 is not done yet more than 38 years later, PP is taking off his disguise and explaining his intentions more completely. The week before, in some statements made by the Minister Catala, at Bilbon, plainly stated that the plans of centralization were laid upon the table. The door of the centralization, which has hitherto been made half-contradicted, was now opened publicly. He declared that the discussion of the Constitution had no further right to bring about, and that a few self-nomous jurisdictions of the community would be safely returned to the government of Spain. In his own words, it was "que el Gobierno centranal vuelva a sumir pollicas úblicas esenciales." And that's what we can say, 'Perhaps a minister can fire it,' but on Friday, after the Minister's Council, Méndez de Vignone and Minister of Health spoke in the same way. He said that after 40 years of age and 40 years we have to make an analysis and that the jurisdiction will depend on that analysis. He didn't say "bring or not bringing," but that all hands would be conditioned. That is to say, what has hitherto been done in secret, or half concealed, is now clearly explained: 40 years have passed, and the jurisdiction of the commonwealths is placed on the table, and in certain particular interests, there has been opened the opportunity of demanding the archocutions in the interests of the Spanish Government. Let's admit, this request isn't new. What happens in this way, almost without shame, is to make a new one. For hitherto they have been able to limit the capacity of jurisdiction by introducing appeals to the Constitution of the Court, or by means of organic legislation. And now they've found a new path and... I don't know if the word is very appropriate, but it's just a kanynode. 155 has been discovered and has been reduced to Catalonia by 155, as well as the Navegantes. But it is not only for us: We heard that it would have to be applied to the government of Castile and to the City Hall of Madrid, which is, they're happy to have set up that special instrument. In this situation, I think it's my turn to clear up what's going to happen to you, do you still think there's still a chance of the Spanish State to establish a definite frame? Because in front of this attack of my third, it will not be the last, what are you willing to do?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u34	Thank you, Mr. Urizar. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Urizar, for the first time, I agree with your concern. I think it's intolerable, above all, the description of the Minister Cata. This is the state of the whole Euskon's funk and in his speech it was that the dean of San José declared to the Minister in such a way. I clearly disapproved, and we have 155 of the Constitution. the article. We find it very serious that a minister should say that the Spanish Government can once more control some of the fundamental public policies, although afterwards he tried to bend these expressions. You're asking me about my plan, and our engagement is: Defence of confessed self-governance, soliciting the transfer of the jurisdiction of the state of Guernica, and restoring the state's condition. These are my commitments and we'd like to have the whole parliamentary companion, including EH gathered together. Why not? In the past few months, I made a plan to take refuge in this Parliament for transfers. I haven't heard from you yet. You ask me what are our intentions, and I suggest that you assemble them to five precise enterprises. One. The hands of the public policies of the social character, which the Eulegans, or M.M., accept with their own hands, are betrayed and avoided by the acts of the State, which implyeth conditions and restrictions. Two. 149.1 in the article of the Constitution of Spain, which is founded only on a sectorial jurisdiction annexed to the State, to accuse and reject all the policies which are laid upon it. Three. Without respect of the Euscal economic treaty, they charge and reject the actions of the state which seek to participate in the finances and taxes upon the policy of euscals. Four. With the protection and consent of all the political parties of the legislature, give us the preference to claim and negotiate these two transfers: Prisons and economic management of social security. Five. Work with the staff of the legislature, to update the status of the state. After all, as I have told you several times, the answer to your interaction, is here in this legislature. You, Mr Urizar, are constantly questioning me about the intentions of the Basque Government in relation to self-government. Today I would first like to welcome you to the defence of the Basque self-government built so far. I'm not wrong, am I? Am I right? And again I remind you that the answer is here in this Parliament, Mr Urizar. Don't just ask the government what you're going to do; ask yourself. Accept that there are many things we can do together: we can build a very broad consensus, favoring very relevant objectives at this time when, it is true, there seems to be justification by certain representatives for a re-centralizing impulse on the part of the powers of the State. You ask me, and I suggest that you join these commitments: defence and claim of recognized self-government, completion of the pending transfers of the Statute of Gernika, and new legal-political framework and updating of the statutory pact. Why not? These commitments and the five initiatives I have proposed are part of our government agenda. Therefore, we have room to move forward from the agreement, without vetoes, without exclusions, by putting our utmost effort in uniting wills and not in confronting them. This is the essence of self-government, I believe, and this is the collective aspiration that best responds to the political moment we live in. We've openly introduced our commitment to each other. The Jeltarian Party has made a precise suggestion to update the auto-organization and write a new articulate text this week. To answer a given purpose, it is indispensable to agree with a work methodology. That's what we're proposing to do when the team has to start a second phase. Now, each member of the legislature will have to make a general rating, as well as the contributions made by the other parties. Then we'll have to find the arranged handwriting. I know the difficulties, Mr. Urizar, but I want to insist that we have the opportunity again. We've got a group of autogobernus with a certain factory. Let us keep this discussion in this assembly, in order to obtain the most extensive consent. I'll be stubborn about it. We have clearly expressed our principles and principles; a fundamental principle of democratic principle, a society formed with manifold personalitys, a nation's authority to confess, to be questioned, and to have a respected will expressed in democratic ways; to restore the right-handed, to form the system of mutual relations, to promote the connection of Navarrians and the North; to acknowledge the representation of the nation, to give it a suitable protection for the observance of the observance of the law, to update the Æconomism of the treaty, to direct the inquiry into the question of the matter of the Basque citizens. These are our principles and principles, and I know that the agreement of the five different political parties may be made between us. That's my main intention, the agreement. You have mentioned the Minister of Catazar, and he will make a statement of his wishes, but it is for us here, Mr. Urizar, to promote the vast consent of his efforts for more and better self-gourself. We need to increase the defence of the self-recognized self-recognition which we have already confessed on the way, after presenting us with a report about the rights that are to be obtained. Our will is clear: a new jurist and political field. And in this end, I shall read in words what our program of government says: "If the Government demands that the legislature should do so, it will make a suggestion of the renewal of the state about the precise principles and principles agreed on by the official commission of the Government." You, Mr Urizar, seem to be listening, yes, to the words and echoes of the outside world, I do not know more than the words and echoes of this very Parliament or to the very presentation of this Parliament to which you belong. The presentation of self-government is underway, has a timetable of work; it is necessary to respect the forums and the deadlines, it is necessary to move forward on security, with a constructive spirit and will of internal agreement between different, the wider and more plural. Agreement, that is my intention and determination. There is no more powerful tool to overcome hypothetical limits, Mr Urizar, there is no more powerful tool than an internal agreement, with a broad consensus in this House, and with the ratification of Basque society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Urizar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u37	The chairman, thank you. Mr. President, I haven't written everything I said, but I've covered a lot of things and I liked some things. Others... I'll tell you: All right, I think we're agreein' that Cataca's statements are unacceptable. I wouldn't mind what Cataka said, because later I've told you a spokesman from Mendez de Vigo... Yeah, but he left the door unlocked and didn't lock the door, so... You say it's in our hands, but we know it's in our hands... It's all up to us, as we've been pushed back by a few resolutions until one point. You plan on defense of the confessed self-portrait, don't you? And in this case, in agreement, and in the presence of the various interventions that will be, you plan charges and refusals, and avoid them. It is well to accuse and reject it, but it may remain there. I'd ask you to specify the retreat. How can you avoid it? For this is what I have said: The Spanish Government and PSOE and PPKUNTUM, tell us what they impose upon us in their frame: that the decisions are taken in Madrid and our numbers are not ours. So how to avoid them inside their legal frame and inside their game. That's what we need to figure out. Because if it doesn't, it's fine as headlines, but then we can see the route, and we can't. Well, you seem upset when we interact with the government, and we have an interpenetration... It's our role, you'll forgive us, but it's our role, it's our turn to compete. When we're in the government, you'll be back, but now it's time for us to get in touch, so don't get angry. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The right hand is no doubt of importance. You plan that the jurisdiction of the prison and of Social Security is now one of our goals. Ours too! It may be that when we present the likes of our opponents on this paper, both in the hands of the prisons and in the case of the Social Security, your answer is negative. But it can be that dynamic, can't it? An intern and... And let's have the latest government initiative and not ours. Self-defense. We could be self-defense. Perhaps there may be difference, and that which may be the goal for you may be the starting point for us, because there are different ways of understanding self-gravity. But it is for this, no doubt, self-reference, and in this we express our integrity, and because we also explain that we are in favor of all jurisdictions and transfers. There is, therefore, something to be done and not to be so many intermixation, that it must be answered that this is the virus. The President, the root of the one-sidedness, for EH Collect, lies in the Spanish State, because his power and strength may be used by us to deny the rights which the Basque people may have, and to determine the future as a people, is precisely what he intends to do. You know, there's no need to hide, that the Basque Country is the entire independence of the United Nations, not just for the Basque People, but for all the Basque People. As far as we establish all hands and the relationship between states... That's what property says, or that's what it means to us: All right, in order to satisfy all the wants of our people, and to have a relation between the Spanish or other states. We assert that the only misery is the will of society at Esscal. So when you say we agree, we need them to come from Madrid in front of the attacks. And for us the only boundary is the will of the euscal society, and for this purpose we must, no doubt, be based on its political delegation, or the consent of different representatives. Unfortunately, we see that the situation will get worse, Mr. President. And we must be ready to answer as a people and decide as a people by default. If we don't act like a village, Mr. President, we can't really tell you what we're really gonna be able to deal with about the attacks that'll come from Madrid, but we think we're in time to stop these attacks. So let's sit down and start talking. Our will is there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u38	Thank you, Mr. Urizar. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Urizar, I don't care what the Minister Cata has said or what Méndez de Vigo spoke. Don't think I'm angry. You said, "Special Answer." The other day Mrs. Iriart accused me that it seems to me that when I answer to EH Collect, I answer angrily. No, I'm not angry with him when I answer. The question is how questions are arranged here, how they are planned, and what tone they use, and that also has its answer. That's all, but don't get angry, and I don't care if you're in the way, Mr. Urizar. On the other hand, you said "good welcome." Well, I don't know whether you speak in the name of EH Collector, or if you speak in the name of the Basque Alkar, I give "good welcome" to the whole EH Collect. We have a choice of forming a large and numerous compact between different political parties. That's our responsibility and responsibility, Mr. Urizar. And it would be exemplary to present a definite proposition to the society of Basques upon the basis of this vast internal alliance. I have often alluded to it, and shall confirm it: agreement is necessary and possible. The question is: Why not? And the other question is: Why do you plan this thing all the time the team's still working? And why also ask the president? There's a crew. I just want to remind you that we've prepared all the information and all the reports we've been hearing about until now and that we're ready to work together with the crew. So I don't know what you want or what your real purpose is, or why the public default, instead of the default internal work, is, Mr. Urizar. Do you want to build a wide consent, or is it a one-sided project that you're defending? Although you know the one-sided road, Mr. Urizar, the one-sided road is always on the side, always on the opposite side. I am convinced that we are here united by five different political parties, I am convinced that we ought to direct some of our least agreements, and I am convinced that the way is not all or nothing. After all, you'll have to admit that this road hasn't taken her anywhere in the last decade. My position, Mr Urizar, is critical of Article 155. Clearly, it was before the position of this very Basque Parliament. I have affirmed our respect for the decisions of the Catalan institutions, as we did yesterday; we have worked for a political solution based on dialogue, negotiation and agreement; I have committed to a concerted consultation with guarantees. These premises are part of our proposal for the future for self-government. I'll tell you one more time. I believe in the Basque way. I will continue to work for our national reality to be recognized in the state and in Europe. I work on political proposals. I have proposed the model of Europe as a federation of nations, and I will propose it in the document of the Basque vision for the future of the European Union that I have committed. I have raised the need for a directive of clarity in the European Union that serves as an umbrella for the Member States to empower the non-state nations that make up it to organize a referendum agreed, the result of which involves the opening of a negotiation. I have argued that the exit to the territorial labyrinth of the state lies on the confederal horizon. I will continue to work on this proposal, anticipated by the Barcelona Declaration of 1998: it enables us to offer a realistic, responsible, adequate and lasting solution to a conflict of a political nature, such as the crisis of the model of State, and not only in the Spanish State. I will work for a new pact that responds to the crisis of the autonomous model and builds on the multi-national reality of the State, contemplates the Statute and updates its content, recognizes Basque as a national community, articulates a new territorial division of the judiciary, enables the external projection and the capacity of Basque to intervene in European and international affairs, institutionalize relations in the territory of Basque, guarantee effective bilaterality, so that the pact cannot be unilaterally modified by one of the parties. I will continue to work to care for and to establish relations in respect and recognition, bilaterality with guarantees. I will continue to contribute to the updating of Basque self-government and its adaptation to the new European and state reality. And I will therefore continue to work for the exercise of shared sovereignty within the framework of the European Union. So, as you know, a lot of people's work has led this country to the institutions and we have to move forward when they're organized. And we'd appreciate your partnership, too. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "I'm asking you, the Tinixa Guanche Suáz together with the deputy members of the Podemos team, to ensure the incomes of seven per cent of the rent." Mrs. Guanche is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u41	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. Ladies and gentlemen of Basque Government, Mr Lehendakari: in which you say that it is the largest budget in history, will you reverse the 7 % cut made by Patxi López in the amount of GIR, among other benefits? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u43	The head of the table, the President, the chief of the departments, the members of the legislature, all good days. We are currently in the process of improving and updating the Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act. Last May I presented to you the result of a shared work with professionals and experts in social inclusion, which is reflected in the Basic Document for Improving Income Guarantee Income. Among other aspects, the document took into account the regulation of income guarantee benefits in other countries and autonomous communities, as well as data on the impact of GIR on poverty prevention and reduction. The aim of this report is twofold: it presents the department's specific diagnosis of the operation and impact of the guarantee income, and it puts forward a number of proposals that you already know, as you are working on them here. The latest report of the Ministry of Social Affairs on families, children and social services, on page 52, says that Euskadi invests €488.3 million, representing 35.9 per cent of the expenditure of the whole State and one of the highest amounts in Europe. Another report prepared by this Government describes relative poverty in Euskadi, which, compared to the state and the rest of Europe, tells us that we are working well and that the situation improves thanks to our protection system: in 2016, the real poverty rate in Euskadi increased from 9.5 per cent to 5.8%. In the ninth parliamentary term, the GIR was reduced by 7% due to the severe crisis, and wages were also reduced. The important thing is to determine whether GIR is currently located in reasonable terms, given the situation on the labour market. The data indicate that it has, since it has kept welfare rates similar to and even higher than many countries in central and northern Europe. There is no doubt that the GIR cannot ignore the reality of the labour market, at the risk of destroying employment incentives, as these benefits must be an aid or incentive to access the labour market. In an analysis compared to the existing one and with the experience of Norway, it turns out that the level of our GIR represented 42% of our average wage, when that of Norway was only 28%. With the proposal made on GIR in the draft budgets for 2018, the protection of people in vulnerable situations is guaranteed, Mrs Guanche.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u45	On October 26, 2011, the EFE agency said that the Government was going to amend the law governing the GIR, affecting the amount of the benefit. He claimed that this was a transitional measure that was bound by the circumstances. It was stressed from the Government that the 2012 budgets, necessarily austere, envisaged this measure forced by the circumstances, which has nevertheless been maintained all these years, with crisis and, in your opinion, without crisis. All these years you have been perpetuating an injustice, until today, until 2017. Do you not believe, ladies and gentlemen of the PNV and the PSE, that it is too many years ago to make it the most precarious people who are paying for the consequences of this crisis? By 2018 you present us with budgets like the largest in government history, but it does not seem to be for these people. Do you think this is fair? For 2018, there are forecasts that nominal GDP will grow by 4.3%, and rising. And there is no possibility that this increase also reverses, apparently, in reducing a cut that, in addition to unfairness, in the words of its governing partners, was temporary and was a transitional measure. A measure of that crisis which you believe has already passed, but which has certainly not passed for all Basques and Basques. We've been putting up with an unfair cut for five years, you've been looking the other way for five years. Because, as the cut-off was done to others, it was done to him by his travel companion today, they do not want to take on the responsibilities that, even shared, of course are theirs. Do you think it's consistent? And do they not fall in the face of shame that they refuse to reduce the salary of high offices by 15%, which exceed 60,000 euros per year, while they keep 7% to those who, at best, barely exceed 10,000? It's not my thing, it's not Elkarrekin's thing We can. I will remind you of the words of the coordinator of EAPN in this very Parliament: "It is neither fair nor ethical that it is the weakest people who endure the worst conditions in times of crisis". Ez da justua ez da etikoa, bainsa harago noa: zuen irizian krisia gainituta dagoen hhean, ez da ez justua ez etikoa partonsona hauek bakarrik jarraitzea baldintza okerrenak jasaten. And in any case, after the crisis... For who? There are many people who, even if you don't want to or don't want to see it, are still inside it. People we're cutting by 7% on their income. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Nationalist Party, want to acknowledge it or not, today you are responsible for having your governing partners in 2012, with Mrs. Mendia, Mrs. Zabaleta and the exlehendakari Patxi López, cut by 7% the recipients of social benefits. Co-responsible for sharing the government with the PSOE of the cuts, but above all responsible for continuing to apply a petty cut then and still, so many years later – in a totally different economic situation and number of perceptors – absolutely unfair. Can you really say in this Parliament today that it would be an insurmountable cost? Mrs Artolazabal, no policy is neutral; on the contrary, it generates and deepens, or can generate and deepen gaps in inequality. And this is just what you are doing continuing with this measure. The reform is no excuse, and I would appreciate it if you would respond to what I ask for next. Honestly, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you should be ashamed of yourself. Just like that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. In reply, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u47	For, Mrs Guanche, we are not ashamed, because what we understand is that the policies that this Government and the previous ones have implemented have benefited the vast majority of people in a vulnerable situation, and the data do so. And I wasn't going to mention a visit from some of your colleagues we had last week, from the community of Castile-La Mancha, but they themselves recognized the kindness, the effort that this government and that all... It's from Elkarrekin Podemos, the counselor we've been working with. Because they came to learn from the model, both of the Income and Benefit Guarantee Act and Lanbide, to put and implement in their autonomous community measures that favor people in the worst situation. We believe that the budget proposal for 2018 ensures that Euskadi, in protecting people in vulnerable situations, the situation of our community is positive in relation to the rest of the state's communities. And this you have to recognize, it's an objective fact. Of the EUR 625 that the RGI, without including the CPV, this amount is higher in terms of power, purchasing parity, than the guaranteed amount both in France (with 429) and Germany (with 347), in the United Kingdom (with 423), in Finland (with 351)... Therefore, we consider that the coverage of the basic needs of citizens in vulnerable situations is guaranteed with the amount that appears in the 2018 budget. And we believe that we need to continue to improve and move forward, and that is where we need to place the debate, Mrs Guanche.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The eighth point in the subject list: "Interrelation, made of Migenus Ruiz de Gauna EH Collectors, the head physician of Economics and Sub-Sercials, the Gastian BRT project." Miss Trouble is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u49	Yes, Your Honor, Chief of Tapia, members of the legislature, good morning. I want to start and congratulate Bilbo city. He received the reward of the finest city in Europe 2018 a week, and the reception of such a remuneration must serve to reflect. The City of Bilbo is betting on a town model, to renew the city, to give importance to the city, and to modernize the city. Such a man reminds us of our present policy. And as Mr. hugueur Urigaur has here mentioned, our work, the work of members of the legislature, is to control the government. It is no doubt a part of the work, but I think we have another work, or we will be more identified by others, when we say that we have come here to make the society and the future true, bringing ideas, words, and work. And we believe that politics should serve to meet the needs of citizens. We come here to improve the current conditions, we come here to make a better future a reality, we come here to make a shared country a reality, and today that is the basis of this inquiry, Mrs Tapia. In the history of the Gastei of the last decades, the Combat and Bilbo is another, on the general plan of the city, with Mayor Cuerda, a town model where many things were done, but few houses were built, though the population increased. And even if this had a good side, it was also a bad side. After this, and all the other mayors of the world were not here at this moment, for they were struck to the very opposite point, without any great criterion that spread the city, convinced of their constant increase, and it may be possible that they did so without any formality, by making the present decision. We are now trying to solve the decisions taken at this moment and the last 17 years: how to provide services, how to fill the city in the interior... Looks like the city itself is looking for a pattern. Eta eredu horretako funtsezko ardatza garraio publikoa da. This public transport, which in the end covers only 8% of the displacements, but which is nevertheless fundamental in the development of the city. A means, the means of public transport, which we also believe we need to make much more attractive, especially in order to cope with the car, among other things, for ecological reasons. Because in the end transport as a whole accounts for 30% of carbon dioxide emissions, and we would like to make a carbon-neutral society, and the commitment we have made is also to achieve it by 2050. Therefore, when the meeting between the mayor of Gasteiz, Mr. Urtaran, and the lehendakari, Mr. Urkullu, was held in October 2015, and when what was announced was that a different public transport investment agreement was proposed than had been announced before entering (an approach was agreed to end the north-south tram line and the BRT was proposed as new also for the periphery), the truth is that at that time the only group that positively valued the proposal was EH Bildu, apart from the government team. Of course, it coincided in our case with the strategic vision we have for mobility. I will also remind you that at that time the Socialist Party seemed to be an excuse for what was raised, and of course we are not going to talk about the criticisms of the People's Party, which are absolutely predictable. I will acknowledge – and I regret that I am not at the moment – the initiative of the then councilwoman Ana Oregi with the BRT, as we believe it is a very interesting bet for urban mobility. BRTs, or electric buses, or azkar buses as we call them, of the latest generation, can serve..., in fact many qualify them as trams with rubber wheels, and can compete in functionality with the tram. Of course, among the advantages we can find that they involve advances in electrification in transport, have no noises or vibrations, compared to those of the tram, and can also be designed at the same level as the tram in terms of capacity, operation and comfort. I will not dare say that it does not pollute, because, as we all know, that it is electrical means that pollution occurs at the point of generation of energy. And if all of our energy sources were renewable, then we could say that, but considering that we still have nuclear and thermal power in the pool, then what does not pollute is that we will leave it for another day. But also from Euskal Herria Bildu we will commit ourselves to that country discussion, to that of public intervention to make possible the change of energy paradigm. Because here too we believe that you know that in order to advance as a country you will not be able to count on those of the sun tax. The proposal to implement, in any case, the azkar bus or express bus will also be made in the line of the largest influx of travelers, the one that connects more neighborhoods of the city and connects with the largest number of lines, and therefore of means. It's going to be a bet for intermobility. A real showcase also for the whole city, which we believe with this change will optimize the times on the routes, but we also believe it will be a real showcase for the country, because it must also serve to facilitate the extension of this means of transport to other cities, to other municipalities. As far as the technical approach was concerned, we agreed from the outset. What EH Bildu did not agree with at the time was the project's funding approach. According to the initial evaluation of the project, which is contained in the technical memory that we were given, the cost was to be about 41.6 million the civil work that was proposed at the time, about 8.6 million the acquisition of eleven vehicles, and an estimated annual maintenance cost of about 630,000 euros. The sum, if we updated the maintenance costs, would amount to a total cost of about 68 million euros. However, the funding proposal that was put on the table was based on public-private collaboration, and assumed that a contracting company would cost the works, the purchase of vehicles and the maintenance in exchange for an annual fee of €7 million over fifteen years. If we multiply the 7 million euros for the fifteen years, the cost of the project is 105 million. The comparison of the public-private partnership of 105, compared to the actual cost of the project of 68, is something with which Euskal Herria Bildu disagrees, and this is also what we propose in all the signatory institutions of the convention, including the Basque Government. Public money belongs to all citizens, and we believe that we must be very rigorous in management. In this we do not like to follow the example of Madrid, nor overcosts and so on, but we believe that the results must be optimised. We can therefore also welcome the fact that the agreement could be reached, and that you, Mrs Tapia, announced in February that the funding would be public and that the management would be Tuvisa. Of course, we welcome the savings that all institutions and citizens face. Moving from almost EUR 101 million to EUR 68, we believe that this is a great step forward. And now it is up to us to put on the table another outstanding issue, and it is the one that affects the traffic of the city, given the impact that the passage of this azkar bus or express bus through the roundabout of Latin America, which, as you know, is the black spot of the city. We do not yet have the technical memory, but in the previous one that was presented to us, regarding the proposal that was made to us of civil work, appeared all the streets that it was intended to do, and yet regarding the Latin American area, of the Latin American roundabout, there was absolutely nothing. We do not have the new technical report, but what we have been able to do is to calculate, on the basis of the budgetary allocations provided by both the Basque Government and the city council or the parliament, and we see that the final proposal will have a total cost of around 43 million (a further reduction from the EUR 68 million foreseen in February). With which we see two options. We see that, first, the costs have been optimised, also the cost and development of the technology allows us to optimize, which we also find very positive, but we see that we have an opportunity cost. We have an open opportunity before us: in the face of reduced costs, which we believe will be positive, we are also opening up the new problem associated with what is to be implemented with the BRT, and it is the disease to traffic in Latin America. And that's what we want to ask you. We want to know what interventions are planned in the surroundings of the roundabout of Latin America within the project of azkar bus or express bus. Moreover, considering that he has been asked from different voices of the city council, including Euskal Herria Bildu but also those of the municipal government, to face the underground, or part of the underground of the traffic, taking into account the condition of the new means of transport BRT in the Latin American area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u50	Thank you, Miss Trouble. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u51	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. I was surprised for a moment, ma'am, because this discussion seemed to be giving up at the City Hall, and not in the law department, because we were actually entering a debate that doesn't belong to this parliamentary. But I'm not going to reach that, and I'm really going to come to the projecting of the electric bus and check out how things are. In fact, as you may remember, there was a pact between you and I, Dowya, the 1st June of the year before, the Foru Aldundia, the City Hall, and the Christmas Eve. And there was nothing in it about the change in America in Latin. And I'll tell you more. This new electric bus project doesn't do anything special at the moment, I think it's already the UVA 2, doesn't it? I mean: in this sense there is no real change in that square. So it's not quite true that the electric bus will do something special there. It is true, in the general application, that the whole of the township has also examined the project, which is now what it is, and which has certain points of character and has been considered through the city, and what are to be done, but in this place there is nothing in particular. It doesn't mean that if the City Hall asks for us, we won't see what we're going to do, but he's not here right now. Not that it's our jurisdiction, because it's something in the city, and besides, there's nothing special about it. And I'd like to make that clear. As you remarked, the data we have right now, and the project has not yet been fully closed, projects are located around 42 million dollars. And I'd like to introduce myself in particular how we're going to study it and how we're going to do it. Indeed, for us, it was an interesting project, to resume the project that had been presented last year, to put on the table a new alternative to an electrification of transport. So we were winning in two respects: getting an alternative to a tram that really has high costs and also needs a high demand, and secondly putting on the table also a somewhat different transport, more..., let's say, because, as you have said, we cannot consider it not to contaminate, but less polluting, much greener than we have on a traditional bus. And, of course, that it has other intelligence parameters introduced into the system, such as different communication systems, which allow us to make that transport something different and serve as an example in other cities. The project currently, by giving it more data, has been differentiated in various smaller projects, let's say, that they develop each of the aspects. On the one hand there is urbanization, and I think you were basically referring to this project. And everything necessary to make the urban insertion of the electric bus, the concrete civil work it requires, and the material to be introduced into that system has been analyzed. The changes in roads and roundabouts needed to replace line 2, the services affected, the replacement to be made in time and how it will affect, the urbanization in the affected environment (because in some cases introducing a new stop or this type of bus requires somewhat different urbanization works), the traffic diversions that are needed, and, ultimately, a complete project of everything that needs to be put into operation. All these documents have been contrasted with the municipal technicians, according to their requests, according to what appeared in the project, and one of the main concerns of all administrations is that, of course, citizens observe that the project is beneficial and that all the areas in which we have interfered are improved. That's something we're all working on. That project, which has not yet been closed, I insist, because we are still waiting for the last details of the municipal technicians, is about 7 million euros. Stops, because they also affect a lot. The study that has been carried out contains the definition of the type of stops, of how they are introduced into the city; if there is a burden of opportunity, that is, recharge units at certain times; what types of stops are to be introduced... There are two different types of stop, with longer standards or slightly lower standards, integrating elements to deliver tickets and validate them, integrating elements of information and, of course, integrating those fast charging units that allow us to ensure that the bus is always going to work, even if there is a problem. In addition, proposals from the municipality itself that also affect the urban environment, such as the placement of facing platforms, as far as possible; the placement of bus stops always in the lane itself, so that it is an exclusive lane and that there are no interferences, except in some areas where such a recharge is going to occur; the possibility that there will be a visibility of at least fifteen metres so that people who are going to cross the streets have sufficient visibility and security; the semi-phoric priority; the independent sidewalk of the stop (i.e. that people can circulate properly), or that access to the tracks can be made at both ends, as far as possible (not always possible), and that we always take into account that such stops are absolutely accessible, that accessibility conditions are well guaranteed. The information screens will be 29 inches, the lighting will be with LED... Well, in short, a number of aspects that have been perfectly agreed with the city council and that at the moment are around 10 million euros, 10,3 specifically, without also closing this project. With regard to electric charging, different types of options have been analysed, and the one that has been adopted is that of charging by inverted pantograph. I mean, we kind of have him on some of the stops, and at those points we're going to be able to produce the charge. Two loaders per line will be implemented, two for each direction of circulation, therefore, and we ensure service even in conditions where there is a failure in the load systems. Well, it has also been analyzed that you can complete a full lap on each of the lines with that recharge, and that the recharge lasts no more than four minutes at each time, so that there is no delay on the bus. The necessary power and everything else has obviously been analysed, and it has been considered that the buses we are going to use are of two types: there will be seven of eighteen meters and six of twelve meters, according to the request of the city council as well, since it is they who know, through Tuvisa, the demand of travelers at this time. The location of the shippers, also according to the municipality and the City Hall itself, has been established in two points, in the Boulevard and in Mendizorrotza, so that we do not affect areas where there is more burden of housing and where there is less space. And the slow load, of course, will occur in garages, as was originally planned as well. The new technologies, as you say, have also made it possible to reduce costs, and the costs at the moment are about 3 million euros for these recharge units. And then, obviously, we have everything that is sale and cancellation on stops, as I was saying. Well, as it is done on the tram, it is going to be done on the outside, not on the inside of the buses, but, as the stops are going to have a similarity with those of the tram, also the cancellation of titles will have it. You will also be able to purchase that sale and validation with the BAT card and other... Well, that whole communications and securities sale and cancellation system is going to amount to about 2 million euros. And finally signage and communications, in such a way that we establish the semi-phoric priority and that it is practically a tramway, that it always has that semi-phoric priority and that the communications are perfectly adopted. That whole validation system, video system... well, that whole remote control system is going to be about another million, 1.2 million euros. And finally the electric buses. As I told you, seven of eighteen meters and six of twelve meters, with a budget of approximately 9.5 million euros. That makes the project currently at around EUR 43 million, if we were to bid it out. What are we doing right now? By finalizing the details of each of the projects, according to the requirements both by the city council and by Tuvisa, which will be the operator of all this infrastructure, and preparing the tender documents of this project, so that already next year the works can be started. I therefore believe that we have achieved the objectives that we have set ourselves, and under no circumstances, I insist, are failing to fulfil the interinstitutional commitments with the Council and the Parliament. And I want to insist that that square in Latin America may have problems, but it has them now; they are not as a result of the smart electric bus. Therefore, we will continue to work to ensure that the implementation of this bus is as effective as possible, as efficient as possible, and that it meets the expectations of the citizens of Vitoria-Gasteiz.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Miss Trouble is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u53	Yesterday was the international day of philosophy, and I remember reading a phrase that today seems to me to come quite out, and it's a phrase by Bertrand Russell that says scientists are striving to make the impossible possible, and politicians to make the impossible possible. I am going to propose to you today, Mrs Tapia, that we make everything possible. What do you think? Of course, we agree with the principle of technical approaches, I believe that there has been no doubt about this at any time, and moreover, indeed, I believe that we have agreed even in the state in which we find ourselves, in the learning curve of technology, and that has also made possible a reduction in costs which we are very happy about. I will also acknowledge that this is not the ideal way in which I would like to deal with this issue with you, and I think that the ideal would have been, and we have requested it on repeated occasions, that we could do this through different meetings. In addition, we have put it this way also within the institution of the city council itself, that we go together with the new demand we have. Let us also do, if possible, that even all groups would agree so that it was something unanimous, that it is not something very likely, but at least it could be possible. In the absence of that agreement among all groups, it has indeed been suggested that at least in the institutions where we are, we should take a joint approach. And the truth is that also in this inquiry to the municipal government, although we have always been told that it seems good to them, three weeks ago it seemed good to them, two weeks ago, it is true that we have not been able to have this meeting with you. The question that I bring here and that I think it will be possible to clarify, even at later meetings, is that in principle – and I have told you this in the first inquiry – we have the previous memory, we do not have the new memory, and according to that data I have commented to you and I believe that there I have never missed the truth. This express bus has a dedicated lane, in principle, a lane of its own, and it has semiphoric priority, so at the moment it is predictable, in the absence of having read the final report, it is predictable that it will influence the point that at the moment is the black spot of transport in the city of Vitoria-Gasteiz, it is the blackest point of the city, and it is a point where 70,000 vehicles pass per day and also we have urban, tram, pedestrians, bicycles..., and it will be added the azkar bus. And that's what we told him that in the previous study we didn't see what the condition was going to be, so we just infer it, we couldn't know it, but that it's a matter that concerns citizens is clear. The most voted project in 2016 for the realization of projects (there is a call) was precisely to study the feasibility of the underground traffic in this roundabout, which, as it says, the current condition is already the one that worries us, because it is also in the vicinity of the bus station, it has tram, it is the entrance point of the area from Bilbao... I mean, we have the problem on the table and we want how much more it can go. We also know, because that is the case, that in the city hall the study of the underground is being carried out, and we also know that this is not simple (there is a collector who installed himself in 2005 below), but we also know that today, in civil engineering, that something is difficult is not that impossible. And what we raise here is precisely how to address in its entirety, within the project and the new condition, the resolution of a problem that exists. The municipal officials already estimate – and they have told us this – the cost of this possible work at 15 million euros, depending on whether one lane or two can be buried, and, of course, what we do believe is that now is the time to put it forward, because – and in that we are right, as we have just announced – the works have not yet been tendered, so it is still possible to put forward a joint execution of all the works, which also do not imply at all a delay in the project. Because if it is not yet tendered we could accompany the execution of the work so that the implementation of the BRT is not delayed and if the necessary reform of the roundabout of Latin America can be undertaken. There is an almost endemic evil (I don't know if it is absolutely in all cities, certainly in Vitoria-Gasteiz it is), and it is that the streets are opened over and over again. Once it is done for the replacement of a collector, then it opens for fiber optics, it reopens..., and besides this kind of actions provoke a lot of rejection and hastyness in the citizenry. He also knows that this project, by how it is happening in others, is going to be under the microscope, and what we propose is that we do it right from the beginning. There is a time to incorporate those issues, and that time is now. The regrowth of the economic departure to make possible the underground in Latin America is, of course, a commitment that Euskal Herria Bildu will carry forward. Of course in the budgets that are raised here by the Basque Government, but in the rest of the institutions as well. We believe that it is time to do so, we also believe that we are able or would be able to do so together, and that we must do so now. And you were also talking about that this bus or this express bus is going to be smart. This week there was the smart cities meeting, and I would like to recall here the phrase that "we don't need smart cities; we need mayors, mayors, smart citizens, and smart politicians."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u54	Thank you, Miss Trouble. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u55	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Larrion andrea, you and I think we know a little bit, so it's up to us by profession, to make the impossible possible. A little bit. I believe that the art of doing what is possible is simpler, and, of course, I have never escaped that debate. So, I'm sure he'll find us there. In any case, I still think this is really a municipal debate. Traffic in a city, how we want to manage it, what kind of city model wants to be Gasteiz in this case... You said that at first and, you said, this sounds more like a municipal debate than we should do in this House. What kind of circulation has to be given, if we have to introduce intelligence elements, that provide intelligence, that allow us to manage better... Because, in the end, whether the bus is smart or the city is smart is to manage it better and make it more comfortable for people. I think we share that, too. Well, that debate concerns the citizens of Vitoria-Gasteiz, I agree, for sure. And many other things that will probably also appear in this square in Latin America. I also agree with something else: if they are done in parallel, we obviously only disturb citizens once. Another issue is that all aspects of urbanization, of conditions that can occur, are being dealt with by the municipal team and by municipal technicians. I therefore believe that this is the place where the debate has to take place, and from there bring it to the convention we are working on and to the inter-institutional table. I believe that this is the way we should do it, and that it is not born of a parliament that has at no time any attribution in municipal politics. Therefore, I think it is something we have to do, something we have to do in an appropriate way, and something that – you who are in the City Hall of Gasteiz – you have to do there. At the same time, I believe that we must be efficient, as you said, in the use of public resources and really see what kind of action needs to be taken. And probably from that execution of public resources in the best possible way we will arrive at a solution, just as we have now come to the solution of an electric bus that can perform a quite adequate function. Therefore, we will try to work with municipal technicians, with the municipal government, and see if at that inter-institutional table we find a solution, without forgetting that this is traffic, management of a city, and municipal competition 100 percent. Because you could also tell me that when works have been done on the metro – and you could have told me this – we have improved some urban areas, which have somehow remained with improvements that could be made, that were not the competence of the metro itself, or, in the case of improvements that have been introduced on the mole in Donostia too, that were not their own competences, but that were an improvement. And that kind of performance we're also going to do in the case of the implementation of the electric bus, and they were done with the tram. But I think that a work like that you are putting forward goes a little beyond an improvement, by the dimensions it has. So let's work it out, work it out a bit in the municipality, in the city hall, and from there we analyze it in the inter-institutional commission, but being aware of what each one's competences are and how we have to execute them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. 9th point on the subject list: "To ask you, María del López de Ocariz lópez de Muninka, a member of the Popula team, made to the Chief of Economics and Sub-Separations, about the calling of the courses of the year 2017-2018 and the training of the training." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u57	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Counsellor, it is your department, especially the Directorate for Fisheries and Aquaculture, which is responsible for promoting the training of people for the different activities related to the sea, and for carrying out those actions arising from that competition. Competent to support the training of workers, those interested in acquiring adequate preparation to the requirements of the sea market. You are competent, Madam Counsellor, to promote training in the diversification of the fisheries sector. Competent, Madam Counsellor, to promote interdepartmental and with the sea sector coordination for the design of the regulated training offer, the continuous one, and the certificates of specialty. And the question is, what is the department's criterion when it comes to offering specialty certificate courses?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u59	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs López de Ocariz, the training needs of the fishing fleet, as you are well aware, come from obligations laid down in different legislative frameworks. Some of them belong to our administration and others do not, because we have those of the General Directorate of Merchant Navy, who are in the Ministry of Development, or in the Social Institute of the Navy, who are of the Ministry of Social Security, and obviously those who are in our competence in this case as department, within the direction to which you referred. The criteria used by this department to create the courses meet the needs of our fishing sector, the one working in Euskadi or the one leaving Euskadi. Training needs are identified by management in response to different sectoral and professional actors, such as federations of fishermen's confreres, high-level fish producer organisations (the ones in Ondarroa basically), freezer tuna vessels and interested persons who go to our offices with certain training needs due to their working conditions and the needs that arise. In response to these requests, the training offer will be defined by the Fisheries Directorate each year. In view of the number of competent administrations, it must be considered that it is sometimes up to us, as you said, to organize and coordinate this training offer. In addition to what we propose, use other administrations. In 2017, twelve different courses have been held, with nearly 200 participants. By way of information I can also facilitate those that will be given in 2018, that are already planned and that will be valid and indispensable for any professional marine sector, except those that refer to those of merchant marine, that will be offered in case of necessity and in case they are requested. Therefore, I believe that the only way to work is to meet the needs of the sector, and so we have proposed, to be able to meet all those needs as in 2017. And I have to point out that all these courses are also offered at zero cost to all attendees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u61	Counsellor, you know that the certificates of specialty this year have not been offered. You know that there are a lot of people calling to schools, especially Passage schools, and that the answer workers give from school is "Leave me the data, I'll let you know when they leave." Time is passing, and these courses are not offered. You know that specialist certificates provide training to deal with emergency situations, as well as knowledge of safety at work, which are complementary to professional qualifications and are essential. In addition, the worker who is professionally engaged in working at sea is obliged to have the compulsory safety certificates and is obliged to check the lapses for boarding purposes, which is a proper documentation to enable him to embark on his work. Counselor, to get the relevant specialty certificate out or renew it you have to go through school. There has to be an offer, and right now you know that offer has not been given. And there are a lot of people waiting for this offer. It's hurting a lot of workers, because we still called the Passage School last week, and I'm going to tell you what the person who was on the other side of the phone was saying: "Leave me the data, we'll pick it up, we'll let you know, we have a big demand." Counsellor, today the professionals of the sea in the Basque Country cannot renew their certificates. You know that they are mandatory, that there are lapses, that you have to renew those lapses, that you have to present them to rise. Otherwise, they can't board. So, Counselor, you who are so eager to claim right and wrong competences, those that touch and those that do not touch, turn out that a competence that you have to develop does not fulfill it well. It does not meet the needs of workers. They're going to Santander, they're going to Denia to renew the certificates. What do you do? What do we do from here to meet the needs of these workers? The truth, Counselor, is that it is a shame that we are in these circumstances and in this way. I don't think he's being treated properly. The response that the Government is giving in this case to the needs of those who need the certificates of specialty... You're not bringing them in. This Fisheries Directorate has not offered the courses for these compulsory certificates that seamen have to provide. Counselor, I ask you to please attend to this need. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u62	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u63	Mrs López de Ocariz, I have told you that in addition to the twelve courses, there have been courses of port master, machine sailor and bridge sailor. For the next year 2018, basic training, two courses in Bermeo, two in Ondarroa, two in Pasaia; in the Global Maritime Distress and Safety System, that is, course associated with safety at sea, one in each school (Bermeo, Ondarroa and Pasaia); in complete basic training and mariner fisherman, one in Bermeo, one in Pasaia; in port pattern, one in Bermeo and another in Bermeo also, analyzing it in two different semesters; in bridge sailor, one; in mariner of machines one; in survival boats and rescue boats, one in Pasaia; and advanced health training, in contact with the Social Institute of the Navy. These are the courses that will be offered in 2018. Now, I would like to remind you that you, when there was a government of Mr Patxi López, at some point decided to bet that this formation would not be given in one way and given in another. You decided to bet on that, and that creates a number of difficulties that we are trying to remedy. When at a certain point this training that is not regulated has to be put into operation in those schools that depend on Education the situation gets complicated, and you know it perfectly well. In any case, I have cited all the courses to be given this year, with the aim of meeting each and every one of the needs of the fisheries sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The tenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, José Ramone Becerlo Carolo, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the head of economics and the ruling department of the subordinates, about the rules of the establishment of Petronor." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u65	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, chief physician. Between January and February of this year there was the general stop of the Petronor refinery, and at that stop there were several major reforms. Among them, that of the coke plant. When we asked his department what was the scope of the stop and whether they were aware of it, they told us in writing that there is no knowledge of the scope of the work, that there is no technical report on it, and that the Bizkaia territorial delegation of this department does not know what is being done. We then asked the technical director of Petronor to appear to explain the scope of that stop, and they excused his presence in this Parliament saying that they considered Petronor's activity to be an activity authorized, regulated and controlled by the competent administrative authorities. And I ask you: If you don't know what Petronor is doing, and Petronor says that you control him, is Petronor having a favorable treatment in terms of inspection and control of his regulatory industrial safety?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u66	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u67	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Becerra, your answer to your question is correct: No, he doesn't have a special deal. As you know, all inspections and all treatments are done later on, when once the work is done, and in this case, they are exercised for time and purpose, on the other hand, as a common joke. In the case of the technical stop to which you refer, obviously the subsequent technical inspections to validate the situation, as to whether it has been carried out on time, contents, established requirements and so on, have been done in time and form. You also know that you have different qualifications, and in case there has been any serious or minor problem you have the possibility to correct them for a next inspection. And I have to point out to you that today Petronor is up to date on all his obligations to carry out the corresponding inspections and to have attended to the remedies, and that under no circumstances has he been treated differently from any other industrial facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u69	Mrs Tapia, I'm glad you did your job, even though you didn't know in March that you had to do that job. You said you had no information, and the reality is that industrial safety regulations require you to know everything that the refinery is doing. But apart from that, I have to tell you that the coke plant, which has undergone reforms at this stop, is a plant that is only four years old, has been the most expensive industrial project in the history of Euskadi (1 billion euros), and yet between 2015 and 2016 it has suffered seven unexpected stops, with six clouds of coke dust that have contaminated its entire environment. This as far as the coke plant is concerned. The new comprensores, which have been put in place by the end of 2016, have already suffered seven emergency stops in 2017, and the cogeneration turbine another four stops. In total, Petronor's plants have suffered eleven unscheduled stops. And I ask him: If everything is in order, why are Petronor's facilities not working?, why are you constantly suffering from emergency stops?, and why are you polluting your environment, with dust clouds that don't have to suffer the citizenship of your environment? And I ask him: This attitude of letting it go, of making it seem like everything is all right, does it have to do with the fact that the person who signed the writing apologizing for his presence here was José Ignacio Zudaire, former Industry Advisor and now Director of Institutional Relations of Petronor? Does it have to do with Mr Balza working in Petronor, former Home Secretary and now legal adviser to the plant? Does it have to do, for example, with an ex-collaborator of hers, such as Pilar Urrutikoetxea, former director of the EVE, being hired to work for Petronor, in violation of the decree of transparency of high offices, which prevents her from doing this job if it has not been two years since she left office? I'm asking you what kind of favor treatment Petronor is having right now in relation to the revolving doors, which make a lot of people who have worked in Industry and the government right now are working for Petronor, and that it coincides that all these people are from the same party. And this person, Pilar Urrutikoetxea, for example, is in breach of the decree of high offices, because he has not communicated this circumstance to the corresponding department of the Government. And right now Petronor is not getting the treatment that any industrial installation deserves: he is getting an obvious favor treatment, which he will have to explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u70	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u71	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Becerra, when you want to mix all things up, you, of course, are the tent master in doing so, forgive me the expression. Firstly, the investments Petronor has made in his coke plant. It is a private company; therefore, it can devote 11 billion as much as 110,000, because it is its plant. Two. You ask me a question about why those stops. Well, I'm an industrial engineer, but I'm not a specialist on that plant, and I don't know her. Therefore, I do not think I can provide you with that information. What I can tell you is that the treatment is not privileged in any case, that there is no treatment in that sense; that there is no regulatory breach; that it complies with and has corrected all the data requested of it, in case there have been failures; that it is therefore perfectly up to date on all the necessary inspections, and that there is not a single stain in any file from the point of view of industrial safety. Now, as you like to mix it all up, it also talks about people who are working there, and tells me that "a great part" of Petronor's template (he said, "a great part")... I also think, of three, that "a large part" would be that they work as four. Well, I think they work a few more than four. Mr Zudaire has long since ceased to be Vice-President of Industry. Mr Balza, as you know well, works for Uría and Menéndez; therefore, another thing is that Uría and Menéndez has been hired by Petronor. And Mrs. Pilar Urrutikoetxea must also provide her legal advice services, but under no circumstances is she hired by Petronor. She's not hired by Petronor, and you know it perfectly well. So if we're going to mix it all up, I insist, I'm going to call you next time too, because you know how to mix it all up very well. In any case, the answer to the question, and you know that the file can be consulted... Petronor's industrial safety record is clean, and has not been treated favourably. And we are developing, as you also know, not only for this case, but for all cases, a new decree of periodic inspections, which regulates processing so that it is even clearer, more accessible, electronic, and with perfect follow-up. It is our objective that all industrial safety inspections be carried out in time, in the most appropriate form and manner, so that we can follow up on this and that all the dossiers are perfectly clear and no role is lost anywhere, so that there is no doubt in any case that things are done right. You know that, and we will have the opportunity to see that decree of technical inspections, because obviously you will have to go through a public process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Number of points in theme list: "The question is, that Antonio Damborenea Basterchea Eusgula, a member of the Pogula team, made to the Chief Economics of Economics and Subjugations, the management of the Eascal harbours in Spain." Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u73	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Counsellor, you have today a full..., you will be the star of the full, as we go. Last week, during the presentation of the Strategic Plan for the Port of Bilbao 2018-2022, you indicated that, under the current legislation, the management competence of the Basque ports of Bilbao and of Passages, both considered of general interest, should have been transferred forty years ago. And what we ask you is whether the Counsellor knows Article 10.32 of the Gernika Statute of Autonomy, which says that these ports are the competence of the State.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u74	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u75	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Well, I don't know if it's a star or not, but it's true that today I have to answer a few questions. I understand it's because I couldn't attend the previous plenary. For not having attended the presentation of that plan, you have information, but not complete. Because, besides talking about it, I talked about a lot of other things. I talked about that the port of Pasaia has an important geographical location, that we have to take advantage of; I talked about that the industrial character of our ports, both Pasaia and Bilbao, makes our economy also improve; I talked about that we had to have ports that were in accordance with the needs of our industry, and that were also well connected railwayly and with an important proximity to a logistic hub that can be developed in Araba. I also said that it was necessary to develop a number of railway aspects at the hand of other competent institutions; that we had spoken and had reached an agreement for the development of the southern railway variant; that we hoped that all the agreements committed... I also talked about all those things. And of course I know what you say, but also the Statute of Autonomy in your article 12.8 states that – I open quotes – "it is the responsibility of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country to implement the State's legislation on ports of general interest, when the State does not reserve its direct management". But as it is usually reserved, in an indiscriminate and abusive use, we understand that it can also be added to what says the new European Regulation 2017/352, which defines three important figures, namely the competent authority, the managing body of ports and the provider of port services, and provides an opportunity for the autonomous community to be granted this management. Therefore, on the basis of what the Statute of Autonomy says and what the new European regulation says, I believe that it is perfectly possible that the management of the ports of Pasaia and Bilbao can be carried out by this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u77	I too hope that all the agreements that you and we have reached throughout this exercise will be fulfilled. This will in some cases require state budgets for the coming year, so apply the story, you and your Government, and your party. Let's see, counselor, on the website of your department, in normative references, there is quoted article 10.32 of the Statute of Autonomy, which says what competences we have. And he says that the ports were already transferred thirty-five years ago. Thirty-five years ago. And what your website also says is that since then, although we have normative, executive, legislative, developmental..., full capacity, we have no port law, and it is applied alternately that of the State, I suppose that because for thirty-five years the Basque Government has decided that priority is that, that where it has exclusive powers are not exercised. But I'll tell you more. You have sent us a month ago the non-compliances of the Statute of Gernika in the matter of transfers, and in tab 3 is that of the ports (Bilbao and Passages). And I'm going to tell you what you're saying, because you don't rely on the article in the Statute that says what our powers are, and you've made the trap before, too, as you do in this report. Because this report, what does it say? "Two are the ports of general interest, Bilbao, which also constitutes a node of the basic network of seaports of the trans-European network", et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. And what you say..., you don't say "execution of the Statute"; you say "After amendment of the regulations by the State, functions would be claimed". And what does it say later? You don't quote Article 10.32, no; says 12.8: "The enforcement of legislation is the responsibility of the community...". "Execution of legislation," no management of any kind, right? And what does your own report say? "Therefore, in the current terms, the statutory criterion for its transfer is not met." So, I just want to ask you a question. In other words, is this government going to try to denounce non-transferred competences that are not? Are you going to keep fooling the citizenry by saying "the Statute is not fulfilled"? Look, I can understand that you want competences that do not correspond to us according to the Statute of Gernika, but say so. But what does it mean that forty years ago we had to have those transfers, when they were not even provided for in the Statute of Gernika? What's that for? You don't have to do...! Why are you trying to devalue the Statute of Gernika and to say that it is not being done? This is sheet 3 of the Government's report, which acknowledges above that it cannot be claimed under the Statute. I would only ask them for a little more loyalty to the Statute of Gernika.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u78	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u79	Eskerrik asko berriro, president andrea. I will start with the end, Mr Damborenea: I am not the one who devalues the Statute. I believe that we refer to fact sheet 3, but when there are so many more cards and many transfers still without transferring who is devaluing the Statute, it is precisely the Government of the State, which is committed to complying with many laws, but this, which is an organic law of forty years ago, is committed to not complying with it. He's committed to not fulfilling it. And when we talk about ports of general interest, it is true, we cannot assume the transfer of the port itself, but that of its management, which is what we are saying. And, if you are able to read the law in a flexible way when you are interested, let's read it in this case, because it says "when the state does not reserve its direct management". So read the law in a flexible way, and let direct management pass to the Basque Government, because it can be done and because European legislation itself is saying that it can be done. What's the problem? Why are there some laws that are complied with in rajatabla, with the strictest or most flexible form according to interest, and others that after forty years are not complied with, and we also try to read them in the strictest way? Whoever is devaluing the Statute is not this Government, Mr Damborenea, and you know it perfectly well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 12th point in the theme list: "I'm asking you, "Mina Kortaja, members of the meeting members of the First Collectors, Chief Eplegus and National Society, "Helps too," as well as control, "about the campaign that has been launched under the motto of the Big Ones. " Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u81	Yes, head of the table, members of the Parliament, chief of the Artola generous department, good day. "Help's got control, too. Ayudas sí,control también campaign has been launched by the Big Forest. And no, it's not an income to guarantee rent campaigns, but it reminds us of other campaigns that have been committed against social preparation, and I dare say that many of you and many of your citizens have passed the same. For Marotus and the company have great resemblances with those who are set up, and it is almost the same in nearly the same terms. It's your duty to encourage a social agreement of wide agreed on the rental reform to ensure the revenues to ensure the leadership of the changes which will enable the rent to be built as a tool for social resources. And we have often spoken of the influence of messages, words, and incomes, upon the collective images and imaginary images of the rent. I asked questions about the negative influence this campaign may have in this sense. You, because of your respect for other institutions, decided not to answer them, but I want to ask you again, on the way to obtain a message which has been made to you as head of the department. Is that a matter of your own, in order to promote, from a point of view, the integrated speech and inclusion of social traffic?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. In answer, Mrs. Artolab bark, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u83	The president's walking... Yes, I did, Mrs. Kortajarena. What happens is that I replied that I did not feel responsible for the statements made by the deputy general of Bizkaia, and that I had no discretion or information to judge them. Continuing with the question I was asking, I want to start by talking about Mr Maroto and Mr Unai Rementaria, which have nothing to do with it. It has nothing to do with Mr Maroto's speech, which was a speech we all know and which we certainly do not share, and neither does Mr Rementeria. I believe that Mr Maroto has dedicated himself to criminalising or stigmatising a particular group, associating aid with immigration, which is not at all the message that Mr Rementeria has conveyed. I've moved what we're doing as an Employment and Social Policy Advisor. We are committed to human development, social integration, equality and quality public services. We have made subjective rights that previously did not exist, beyond what may be health or education, and it is our duty to protect and consolidate the system. Any initiative, speech or campaign should be based on the recognition of these rights, and I think that is how, frankly, all Basque institutions do it. For us something important is that nobody has to stand back, and "Pertsona helburu", "Auzolanean", that is the motto that this government is carrying these last two legislatures to jointly address what needs to be done in the field of social policies. Our goal, such as that of outside and municipal institutions, is to provide an efficient, quality service, improving the design of services and the interoperability of information systems, to ensure that all those who need help have it and have it. And this, Mrs Kortajarena, is perfectly compatible with the inclusive and inclusive speeches and actions that all the institutions are carrying out.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u85	Similarities are obvious and obvious. I'll answer the question I did, and I'll tell you it's not right at all. I'll tell you, EH Bila, this is a serious and intolerable campaign. Fabulous in pictures: Because this image of the edge is recuted by the ghost of fraud. Anguish, because, for ends, there is nothing but an informal calculation behind it; a great one, because it comes to trouble, because it is easy to foresee that a citizen on the bus, seeing the images of the campaign, should come to the head of a discussion about rental revenues, and not a scheme of social services and of inspection of the centers to which the Funductal Foru will start. And it's very serious about that. And it's very serious that this campaign puts a little grain on our most important solidary tools between the euplacal populations to attack some parties and the permanent drop strategy which the media has advanced. It's a matter of concern that he breaks that block against such bells, because he breaks that continental block, and it's a matter of concern because the same political groups you're in the government here today are driven by. Mrs. Artola wide, all this is very troubling about the campaign: the pictures, when they say, all of them... And there are many resemblances. In this language, we cannot understand each other. We cannot understand each other when these messages are taken up, and I will repeat to you once more that you accompany us on the road to strengthen the eucalyptus-system. You will be your companion on the way to dignity on the way to cohesion in that way that will leave no one behind you, in which no one is criminalized. We'll find each other there easily, but we'll never meet with a message like that. We'll never find each other on the way they represent such campaigns. Not like that! But if not, on that other path, on the road to solidarity, we shall be generous and companion to you, my lady Artola generous.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u87	I, Mrs. Kortajarena, do not know the campaign being carried out by the Bizkaia District Council. I didn't start it, we didn't control it. Only what can be seen on buses or public places, but it is not my responsibility. My responsibility is to manage public services on the basis of effectiveness and efficiency, always seeking the dignity of people. And this you know, Mrs Kortajarena, that we do, and we do all the institutions. I sometimes believe, when you associate control with stigmatization or criminalization, that is not true, it is not the objective. I believe that, frankly, social protection systems have to be protected too, redundancy is worth it, and one way to protect is to manage properly. I believe that as a public administration we have to work for the weakest, and in that we will find ourselves and in that we always find ourselves, focusing on their capacities and offering opportunities to develop that very life project. And in this House we have unanimously adopted initiatives calling on the various political leaders to be proactive in generating inclusive speeches, and that is what I am committed to. We must speak responsibly and with objective data in order not to feed rumors, and there is nothing better than objective evidence to deal with rumors. Efficiency in management protects and strengthens the system, and in that I maintain myself. It maintains and improves the quality of services, ensuring the care required by Basque citizenship. And, frankly, I believe that the statements made by the deputy general, to improve the effectiveness and quality of our social services to ensure that all those who need help have it, we can admit it by any group.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Time is up... The thirteenth point in the subject list: "Interpation, by José Ramone Becerra Carollo, members of the Podemus, members of the Parliament for Environmental, Planting and Housing Department, about the environmental control of Petronor's work." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u89	Mr. Arriola, egun on. Your cabinet partner, Mrs Tapia, has put you in a difficult situation, because she has come to tell us that Petronor's facilities are perfect, that there is no problem because in the last two years there have been seventy stops between planned and unforeseen, but she has said that everything is fine. And, of course, it is up to you now to ensure that the impact of this installation on people and the environment is as minimal as possible. Of course, Petronor has an integrated environmental authorization, as you know, where you are specified the operating conditions you have to meet, as I say, to avoid the environmental impact and for people. The last periodic inspection of this facility, in June 2016, revealed a level of average non-compliance, or average compliance – which is already a curious term, but good – and that periodic inspection report from your department made it clear that Petronor did not meet either in the protection of air quality or in noise and other emissions. I have recently asked him in writing to see whether in the thirty days of remediation given to the company he has fulfilled and corrected what was not working, but I bring him today to question the question of the environmental control that his department does about Petronor's installation in general. Please note, despite the fact that your periodic inspection report reveals Petronor's failure to comply with air quality protection, his department has been disassembling all air quality controls over the past seven years, or much of the air quality controls that that refinery had. Look, in controlling emissions in chimney you know that there are two types of controls: some are continuous, to keep track of emissions from chimney, and others are every two years. Well, for the past two years, in the annual report Petronor has had to submit, she has recognized Petronor herself who has exceeded the limits on a hundred occasions. Hundred times in two years. And the coke plant, which Mrs. Tapia has just told us is perfect, has exceeded the limits on twenty-two occasions. That doesn't count on the dust clouds when the closures fail. Well, between 2008 and 2015 his department, from the parameters that are in the fireplace, eliminated seven parameters, and four other parameters passed them from continuous to every two years. That is, just when the refinery proves that it is contaminating, you remove the controls that allow you to check that it is contaminating. That is as far as emissions control in the chimney is concerned. If we talk about the control of the inmissions (which is the quality of the air at ground level, to understand us), you in 2010, when you had to establish the conditions of the integrated environmental authorization, you did one thing that is unusual for me, and that is that you asked Petronor to make a proposal for control. That is, you, who were responsible for controlling, asked Petronor to make a proposal to them to see if it was okay. Petronor made them a proposal, here I have it. Well, that proposal included four cabins, two from the Basque Government and two from Petronor, and I take the opportunity to say that only Petronor has the key. I mean, those are controlled by Petronor directly. Well, from that 2010 proposal, you guys over this time have eliminated 20% of the controls. I mean, they asked Petronor, "How do we control you?", and when Petronor tells you, you still lower it further. Well, of all these controls, the ones that worry me most are those of some substances, which are BTX (bencene, toluene, xylene). Benzene causes leukemia; toluene and xylene are also toxic. You decided, in one of those booths, that why you were going to control the BTX. Total...! Well, the day before the BTX controls were removed that cabin, where it had been decided that BTXs were no longer controlled, because it was never positive in total, reached the annual ceiling: 4.99. The limit is 5. It measured 4.99 at three o'clock in the morning on November 16, 2015. And yet, you had decided that why you were going to control BTX in that booth. And not only that, but from the website they deleted all the records from that booth, it's not going to be that someone said, "Hey, why have you taken this check off, if this booth was measuring defaults long ago?". All that data I'm giving you, don't think I've studied it myself, because I'm not Superman. These data are collected by voluntary people who live around the plant, from the refinery, and who are concerned about their health. She's worried about her health. And he's worried because they understand that the Administration isn't controlling Petronor. They are not only clear that Industria does not control Petronor, and I have already explained why, but they believe that Environment does not control Petronor's activity either. And these people, these people, women I have to say, women..., because they always have a lot more merit, after a lot of tasks, after your work, after attending to a lot of household tasks, having to put you on the computer at home to look at every night how the plant is failing the emission limits, having to collect everything and have to be them who prove to the Administration that everything is failing. And to be none, those people, by the Administration, when they go with the evidence and they are not paid attention. For all these people are concerned about their health and the environment that surrounds the refinery right now. And you from the environment have an inescapable role, which is the obligation to ensure that environment and the health of those people. You have an air quality network that should serve not only to verify that the law is being complied with, but to assess air quality. They're saying it on their website. And yet, when you see that no boundaries are crossed, it's like nothing happens, like everything is between zero and one hundred. There are intermediate areas of concern to people's health that need to be assessed. Look, right now the air quality network in Petronor's environment neither measures all contaminants nor provides immediate data (some are provided six months later), it does not even allow to give the voice of alarm in case of a real emergency one day, and it is not giving Public Health reliable data to allow Public Health to do its work. And then I'm gonna ask Mr. Darpón about it. It was also said at the time that an inter-agency coordination table should be set up to ensure that air quality, in order to ensure that people's health was not endangered. Do you know how many times that table has been convened in recent years? One. Since 2013, since the launch of the coke plant, it has only been convened once, and it was to make the decision to remove BTX from the station to which I referred. The Ararteko in 2014 made a report showing concern about the behaviour not only of his department, but of all the departments in general of the Basque Government regarding Petronor's control. And he mentioned Ararteko to the European Court of Human Rights – see how far we are going – because the Court of Human Rights has made it clear that there is a right that is the individual right to environmental protection. What do I mean by that? When there is serious damage to the environment that can affect the health of individuals and deprive them of their right to enjoy their private and family life at home without seriously endangering their health. Look at what I'm telling you: that, when someone is at home, the Human Rights Court says that the public authorities have to take reasonable and appropriate measures to protect this right, not only to prevent someone from entering your home, but to prevent pollution from entering your home. And it speaks of this right being inviolable, and it speaks of the fact that polluting activities must be subject to administrative control and subsequent surveillance, and that there is a duty of public control, which you and also Mrs Tapia's department, and also Mr Darpón's department, to monitor and control this activity throughout its exploitation. And yet you, against this right, against this duty of public control, have dismantled much of the measures that existed to control Petronor's activity. The Ararteko also said – and I am not going to go too far – that the Basque Environmental Administration has to promote regulatory measures to reduce emissions of volatile organic compounds, through new air quality objectives and the inclusion of new technical requirements or limit values. I mean, it's not good for you to say "The law is already being enforced": there are pollutants, like toluene and xylene, that right now you have no established limits, and what the Ararteko says is that you have to set those limits to ensure Petronor then meets them. The Ararteko also said – and with this I finish –... , stressed the importance of setting up a monitoring table for the environmental control of Petronor's activity, promoted by the Department of Environment and Territorial Policy (i.e. its department), with representatives of industry but also of neighbouring or ecological associations, especially those that arise or are located in its environment. And I have to tell you what you have done to improve the environmental control of this facility, and what you have done to guarantee the right of people to a clean environment, and what you have done to ensure that the institutional agreement table called for by Ararteko has been set up and functioning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u90	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Becerra, you are asking me whether you intend the department that I am running – and I read it textually – "to require Petronor to comply with emissions at all times, in order to protect the quality of the air that breathes the citizenship of the surrounding urban cores". And let me give you a nuanced answer. The Department of the Environment, as you know perfectly well, does not move by intentions; it moves by standards and by evaluated procedures. Therefore, it is not our intention to demand Petronor to comply with the established environmental conditions; it is that it has been demanded in the past, it is demanded in the present and it is going to be demanded in the future, that it must necessarily comply with them. And not only is it required, but its compliance is monitored and verified. As is the case, of course, with other industrial or other activities subject to environmental authorization, because, in fact, the essential purpose of these conditions is to avoid as much as possible that such activities affect the safety and quality of life of citizens, as well as the preservation of the natural environment. You have made reference to the observations contained in the 2016 refinery inspection report, and I will explain them to you, but you will have to admit that your own existence is the demonstration that the Vice-Environmental Adviser acts effectively in the tasks of pollution prevention and control, following established procedures. It should be pointed out first and foremost that the air quality in Muskiz, Petronor's zone of influence, meets the standards laid down in European legislation. The incidence that it indicates refers basically to an average hydrogen sulphide value that was recorded at San Julián de Muskiz station for 30 minutes throughout 2015. Thirty minutes throughout 2015. It does not seem, therefore, that this punctual and so brief measurement can be extrapolated all year round, that at that station it throws a quality of air qualified as good. This particular impact was due to an adjustment of the stripping units, which was communicated to the environmental body by the company, explaining the corrective actions that had been taken in compliance with the current integrated environmental authorization. I have to tell you that these corrective measures have been specifically followed up from the Vice-Environmental Adviser; a follow-up has been extended until May this year, with meetings with the company's management and inspections of the facilities. In this context, and in order to improve controls, in February of last year Petronor was required to submit a study for the possible implementation of temperature alerts at the outlet of the head capacitors, in order to avoid future incidents such as the one indicated. In other words, not only is on-the-spot monitoring and verification carried out of the absence of environmental impacts, but also subsequent monitoring is carried out, so that once the company sends us the explanatory report on the nature and causes of the incident, as well as the measures taken and their results, all this is re-analysed by our technicians, and, if so, additional measures are required. On the other hand, and apart from the usual activity, all start-ups, stops and new start-up of the refinery units are communicated to our department in order to facilitate the inspection and control tasks that it has commissioned; information that is also provided to the municipalities of the area of influence of the plant and to any citizen who requests it. With regard to noise emissions, which you also refer to, the observation is reflected in the inspection report which was made to Petronor in the follow-up framework which is being carried out for all companies in the Autonomous Community. The minutes show that the modeling (theoretical study that at the time the Vice-Adviser of the Environment required the company on acoustic impact) did not provide full guarantees that the limits set were met during the night periods. It should be noted that the modelling results were taken into account in the design of the noise minimisation plan for 2016, as verified by the department's technicians. This plan included the need to carry out the actions that I am going to present, in order to ensure compliance with the existing noise regulations in all periods of activity, both day and night. These corrective measures, for which a specific time limit was given, are as follows: replacement of the diesel engine silencer in the tank area; improvement of the soundproofing of the air dryers in plant 3, in the conversion area; installation of zero-loss purgators in air compressors in the refinery area 2, and encapsulation of the valve in the area called URF. In this regard, I can inform you that the last inspection visit to Petronor took place on 11 October 2017, just a month ago, in order to verify compliance with environmental authorization. The information obtained is currently being analysed by the technical services of the Environment, to verify whether the measures have had the desired result and to assess whether supporting documentation is requested in this respect or other supplementary information. To this work of prevention and continuous control must be added the changes incorporated to the environmental authorization granted, including technical improvements that result in an increase of environmental safety, which have resulted in this exercise in eleven resolutions, resulting from a thorough technical work. In short, Mr Becerra, taking into account all the actions I have commented on, and given that in the Petronor refinery environment the air quality targets were met in 2016 and are also expected to be met in 2017, I do not think that the work of the Department of Environment can be questioned. Not their intention, but their effective work to control potentially annoying or polluting industrial activities, and to ensure the health of citizens and the preservation of the environment. Mr. Becerra, do you trust the technicians in the Department of the Environment? I do trust the technicians of the Department of the Environment, and you are absolutely certain that the technicians of the department do not have instructions to lower any kind of control limit of what is legally required of companies, depending on the procedures and regulations that we have to perform in the department as a consequence – which I told you in my intervention – that our actions are always regulated, on the basis of both legality and procedure. I trust the professional people in my apartment. I trust them so much because I have to trust them, because they are public officials, and because, of course, I am no one, neither I nor anyone, to tell them how they have to do their job and ensure the security of the citizenry.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u92	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u93	Mr Arriola, I will be honest with you: I also trust the environmental technicians in your department, I have recently defended them in this rostrum; what I do not trust is that Petronor works well, look at what I tell you. When a company has seventy stops, seventy emergency stops in two years, we have to think that it's still not working well. And it's not the same to control an installation when it's on a normal diet as it is when it doesn't work well. And Petronor, as much as Mrs. Tapia has told us, it's not working well. And that has a huge and direct impact on the quality of the work that its environmental technicians do. Because you've set up controls for a normal refinery operation, but Petronor's not working well. And, of course, you tell me, "Quality standards are met." Of course, if they measure them, yes! But you have removed measurement parameters. Right now, look, you can't detect the emission of either sulfhydric acid or hydrofluoric acid in the chimney. And these two substances, which nobody needs to hear, are the two substances that activate Petronor's external emergency plan. I mean, right now it's not possible to know, with its last cuts of controls, whether those two substances are going to come out of Petronor's chimneys, which are the ones that can kill people in case Petronor has an inadequate functioning. And I've proven with data that Petronor isn't having... at least he's not having a proper functioning right now. I appreciate the explanations about one of the events Petronor has had, but Petronor has had a hundred exceedances of the limits. You have spoken to me of one; I speak of one hundred in two years, in two years. Of course the environmental technicians will do their job! And much more they're gonna have to do! They're going to have to double the template if they want to properly control this plant. He tells me about the noise, about the noise control. Look, neither the City Hall of Muskiz nor the Town Hall of Abanto have sonometer, and neither do you. When they want to control the noise they ask Petronor to measure it, or a company, to measure it the day Petronor tells it. How will Petronor not meet the noise limits! But people keep complaining about noise, and people want someone to measure noise at night, and not when Petronor says you have to measure noise. The changes that you have incorporated into the integrated environmental authorization to what you have gone to is to dismantle part of the control that existed at the time. Mrs Tapia passes the hot potato to you, and you are passing it to Mr Darpón, because you are going to give Mr Darpón some data that are incomplete, because they have been dismantled. And Mr. Darpón, when I ask you if Petronor has a health condition, you'll say, "No. With the data you give me Environment, you don't have it." Sure, he's gonna tell me, yeah! So, the issue is that between them they are failing to protect people's inalienable right to live in a healthy and healthy environment. Between each other. I am not logically blaming your department exclusively, let alone the technicians and techniques of your department, but the reality is that today this plant is not working well, and everyone is passing the potato on to each other, while people suffer from these conditions. And something will have to be done in the government and something will have to be done in this Parliament so that that is not the case. And I am not going to make this matter, as Mrs Tapia says, mix some things with others, but the reality is that the control of this refinery cannot be a stagnant thing: Industry looks at one thing, Environment looks at another, Health looks at another, Interior looks at another... We will have to begin to assume that the impact that such a plant has on the environment is so great, and the impact that it has on people is so great, that we will have to think about making a control that is not limited to measuring whether or not it meets the emission limits, because, as I said, there are many substances that emit Petronor that have no emission limits marked by law. And this is very important, because these substances are precisely the most dangerous. Substances that can cause cancer, that can cause leukemia, have no limits today. So, you tell me "The legal limits are met"... Of course, of the substances they have! Of those that don't have them, what do we do with those substances? What do we do with people? What do we tell the people around the plant? That's what I want you to answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u94	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u95	Look, Mr Becerra, I thank you for your concern for the environment and for minimizing the impacts of human activities on the natural environment, but you will have to understand one thing, and understand it. I think you understand, another thing is what is exposed in this rostrum. I have told you, we act according to rules and procedures. We cannot invent the limits where they do not exist, nor demand them when they are not covered by the regulations and the regulated procedures, because we would be prevaricating, among other things. Because we can't, we have a limitation. We have to act on what rules and procedures are. It seems to me that, by sharing the concern for the environment, it is not desirable for us to engage in unjustified alarmisms which in some way question the control work that is being done in this company or in any of the Basque countries. And you say you trust the technicians, but at the same time you seem to be suspicious. Because – I tell you and I insist – the department technicians do not have instructions on how they have to do their job; they know how they have to do their job. And according to his work I am calm, to the extent that this work guarantees me, on the basis of the measurements we do, that we are perfectly within the norm, and that we comply with the limits of the regulation in air quality in the environment of Muskiz. Don't tell me you trust, and at the same time you seem to distrust, I don't know. Here to tow the bull you have to dress as a bullfighter, and if you think we're not really doing the job right, it will be that our technicians are not doing it right! It won't be that I'm doing it wrong and the technicians are doing it right! Let's be a little sensible in that sense, and somehow stick to the rules of the game. We all know that a refinery activity is not the same as a company dedicated to ecodesign, for example, and the environmental impacts that a refinery may have are much stronger, and is therefore subject to much greater controls and corrective measures. That's so clear. And this is also done, of course, with Petronor. And we all know that air quality in a refinery environment is not the same as that that can be recorded at the Gorbea summit, right? Of course, the same is not the same as the air quality of the Gorbea summit as that which can be in the center of our cities depending on traffic, or in an industrial polygon. We know. But what is at stake here is to ensure that the limits are never reached, which cannot be exceeded in any way. And in the case of the urban centers surrounding Petronor, fortunately, as it has to be. They don't get over each other, Mr. Becerra. So, anyway, let's recognize it, but not as if it was something... No, that's right. And somehow this activity is controlled and somehow the control system works, and it gives us some data that allows us to tell in this rostrum what we are saying. The data offered by the surrounding measurement and control stations meet the air quality objectives, and this is reflected in the 2016 annual report on air quality in the Basque Country, whose records are fully evaluated. Requiring compliance with the regulations to companies and ensuring the health of citizens and environmental quality is one of the missions that this department has, and in Petronor's specific case this mission is carried out, and I understand that to this day with full guarantees, according to the results that we have of the appropriate measurements. Therefore, I believe, Mr Becerra, that with objective data you cannot question the role and the work that the department does, of specific control of this company with regard to emissions. The techniques, the appropriate measurements, the concrete work to carry them out, certainly are questions of relevance, of value and of technical decision, which I respect, because I trust the technicians of my department. You say here that you trust, but on the other hand you leave a trace of mistrust that certainly does us no favour either to you or to anyone, to this country, or to the Department of the Environment, in a work that I understand is commendable, of control...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u96	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. fourteen points in theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary laws of the Otera Galirdos, made of the Environmental Planets, and Housings, surrounded by the deficiencies of the EAE air." Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u97	Good morning. Thank you. Mr. Arriola, I, I tell you on the way in, I trust the technicians. In the government a little less, I also tell you. Now I'll explain myself. The first reason for the non-natural deaths of the world's contagion is that it is not the exception of the Esquila and the Esquila people greater than the Equigarchian and hungry. contamination around us causes 16 times more death than self-destruction. The law compels us to measure the quality of the air-that is to say, we have a network for it. It's supposed to be a plan to avoid contagion after measurements. But we're short of data. The data, at least not enough. And that's the reason for today's question. Durango is also a good example of the operation, but of more things. There is a terrible anxiety: they stink horribly, and besides the stench the presence of small particles, PM2,5 dangerous particles, is very high. We can say that he's the world's champion of the infected viscart in Durango. 60% of the day is the most contaminated place. But he hasn't got any data in Durango for many days. Problems go much farther: there is a tremendous lack of data everywhere, and the gaps are extremely common in measurements. Therefore, we say, it is not a punctual problem, but a matter of structure. What does the chief physician think of this matter?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u98	Thank you, Mr. Otero. In reply, Mr. Arriola is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Otero, I wonder what I think about the lack of reliability of the Euskadi air quality network, and I'm not going to give you an opinion, I'm going to give you a certainty: I know it's reliable. I know it's reliable. And I don't think that reliability can be called into question lightly. The air quality control network consists of 53 fixed stations that are distributed throughout Euskadi; they measure in real time the main pollutants, in the ranges that allow us to verify compliance with the legally regulated limits. It is a tupid network, which is complemented by six mobile units, two of which are specially designed to capture volatile organic compounds. And with the data collected we can make a daily assessment of that air quality and make an annual statistical analysis that allows us to see how we are compared to the established values. We evaluate all the data from the stations, which are supervised by the department's technicians and in addition these facilities are improved every year. It is true that some installation may suffer during the year some punctual breakdown, or be operational or not, by maintenance, verification or calibration operations, but the reliability of the network and the results it offers I believe are beyond doubt. In fact, the data capture intensity and the temporary coverage of data collection far exceeds European standards. And what the reports from these measurements tell us is that air quality is good in the Basque Autonomous Community.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u100	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u101	You see why he was saying that? There is no worst problem we can have, let it be the Government that does not recognize the reality before its noses. You tell me that air quality is good and that the network is good. I remind you of what Ecologists in Action said last year in their 2015 Air Data Report: "It should be noted that one third of the stations have recorded percentages of data capture for some pollutant below the minimums set by the regulations, so the conclusions set out in the section should be considered taking into account this lack of baseline information." And this is not something radical ecologists say. This is something that can be read perfectly in the annual air quality report issued by your department, where we can see that the data problems are not punctual, but that, for example, for small suspended particles (2.5), the Algorta station reaches a percentage of data capture of 58%, that of Durango to a 70, that of Los Herrán to a 74, or that of Zumarraga to a 53, when, as a rule – that you in the previous inquiry talked about the compliance of the norm – they have to be above 75%. I mean, you just told me here that we are above European standards, and it turns out that we are not even complying with state rules. Of course, so I don't know if we're going to get too far, because besides... it's happening to us every day! It's as simple as you look at this, take a walk through the meters. The other day I taught him to Durango; this is for Gasteiz, yesterday. [[Show a paper]] And you tell me that air quality is good. Sure! Among other things, what is happening to us is that when air quality starts to be bad meters stop working. One of the closest stations we have here: when the boundaries begin to get closer to the very dangerous area they accidentally fail, over and over again. And not only that, but we also make a completely subjective rating of air quality, in which we put the parameters as "very good", "good" and "better", when we have for example the United States environmental agency, which tells us of a classification between "good", "moderate" and "not admissible". What in the United States is "not admissible", here is "better". Sure, you'll tell me, "Everything's better. Everything can be improved in life." And it is happening to us that with the case of Durango we are not complying with the guidelines that the World Health Organization marks for us, which tell us that we are above healthy parameters. And since I don't have time for more, here I leave it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u102	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u103	Mr Otero, aside from specific questions, we have to meet a percentage of 85% in the sampling times in order to be able to validate, and in 2016, which is finished – which is the data we have –, sulphur dioxide, 96%; nitrogen dioxide, 97%; PM-10 particles, 94; PM-5 particles, 90%; carbon monoxide, 95%; ozone, 95%... It's the average. Of course, we are well above European standards, apart from the fact that you can tell me one thing or you can tell me the other. And on Durango's subject, I can tell him. On that day there are data from particle station 2.5 that are published on the website with an automatic prevalidation, and for a few hours no more records are published because these data are outside the ranges assigned to the analyser. What's going on? That in these cases there is an assessment by environmental technicians to know what has happened and determine the final value, or to determine, if any, whether there is any technical error at that station. And that's what we're doing right now. But what must always be taken into account is that in the case of PM 2.5 particles the limit value referred to is an annual average (annual average) of 25 micrograms per cubic metre of air. Average annual. The regulation does not set values in periods of short exposure, such as one or six hours. Therefore, speaking in this context of a worrying and very dangerous situation seems a little or very..., rather exaggerated in this case, when we are talking about a situation that we are evaluating by the department and when we know that the PM 2.5 particle reference always refers to annual averages, not to an hour or two. Therefore, we are all interested in improving the air quality of the country, improving controls as well...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u104	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Your time is up. The 15th point in the theme list: "Internation, Juana de Bengoechea Esté Espulcan Lawmen made to the head of the Board of Education, about the Educational policy of the Basque Dreams." Mrs. De Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u105	Okay. In these days it is almost a year of the working time of this legislature; we have a year, and it is time to take stock, or at least that is our opinion. The balance sheet that I'm supposed to do here and on which I'm asking the counselor is the balance sheet on the Education Board. As I'm going to list things that aren't going well, and that's why I asked the counselor how she plans to improve the situation, I'm going to start saying things that have gone well. There have been positive things this year. The law on vocational training is under way, and it will, hopefully, be passed very soon. And that is a great milestone in the legislation of the Basque Country, because so far we have no law on vocational training. Then, any study of the budget highlights the complexity of the matter we are dealing with, and therefore – I have already done so in the committee – I would like to congratulate not only the adviser, but also the vice-advisors and all the technicians who have participated in this work. Now, as I once told the counselor, the cruelty of politics, and especially of the executive, is that we are not paid or expected to work very, very, very hard. That's for sure. We're expected and we're paid to get it right. And the good news this year in Education seems to us to leave great gaps, and they're going to allow me to start tearing them apart. Let's see, we started the year with the PISA report, a report to which the counselor gave two minutes in committee in her comment. The PISA report is a touchstone, because, while there may be many other assessments, this assessment puts us in front of the world. And our group has always said, as we said in Etxepare, "euskara plazara, euskara mundura", our stage is the world, and this assessment confronts us with the world. And I would like to recall, although it is painful to recall, that the results of the PISA report were not only worse than in the previous PISA report, but that, if we read them, to equal socio-economic and cultural index, to equality of ISEC with the rest of the communities, we are practically the last. And that's painful and it's hard, and it gives up a little lota, a little shame to have to say it here. And we have to remember that because next year (no more time is going to happen), next year we will have PISA exams again. We know that something, little by little, has been done. They have put on a class or a reading reinforcement very similar to what they have put on, to which they had already placed in Castile and León, but with an aggravating: in Castile and León they accompanied him with the empowerment of the libraries, which here is not so; here the libraries are running out of personnel. That's about the PISA report. Then we'll go to the budget. We are not asking for a larger budget if it is not possible, but we are asking that, with the same thing, it be done more and better. That's where I think we can work, do more and better with the budget. Because, regardless of whether we read it with reference to the weight it has in the whole budget, this budget has only risen by 1.9 %, nothing more, and it will be difficult to cover needs such as the rise in workers' salaries. What else are we in an undesirable situation, let's say so? Financing, financing. Here in this Parliament we sometimes see the scene as good and bad. The good guys are the public school, and the bad guys are the concerted school. And that's an injustice, an injustice that frankly makes our group rebel. Our group, you know, is for the parents' freedom of decision. However, we defend both the public and the concerted. The other day in committee we had a public school appearance that has very poor conditions. Well, if in that area of San Sebastián to which parents belong they have to be free to choose freely, we need to empower that public school, so that there is truly equality. So, our position is in favour of the Basque school, which has two models that are very unfairly treated. Because, against what is said here, it is not true that they are private schools. Private schools would only have to respond to the law, and the schools agreed upon in Euskadi have to respond to all their requirements, to all their regulations, to all their regulations, as well as to the public. With one difference: 70% of the funding goes to the public, and only 30% of the funding goes to the concerted. And that seems to us frankly an injustice, frankly; for the parents, for the workers..., for everyone. And in that we do not see that the problem is really addressed. Then (before I spoke of successes) we have a success, a success in Euskadi, which we have to be proud of, which is dual vocational training, which is spelled out for the first time as such and regulated in the LOMCE, by the way. Well, the dual FP has multiplied every year, it has practically doubled the number of students in this mode. It's practically doubled. But most importantly, more than 90% of students leaving the dual FP get a job. And the money that the advisor devotes to the dual FP has been kept flat, so that, if at first there were almost 4,000 euros per student, then now I don't know if we get to 1,100 or something. Because it's bending, in six years. Last year our group achieved a financial reinforcement for the dual FP; in the 2018 budget it has disappeared. What other things we see, that for us they are capitals, in which the effort that should be made is not being made, that is, they are not going well. Let's see, the so often mentioned trilingualism (Castlean, Basque and English, or other language). We are assured that trilingualism is a key objective, that we are going to try to achieve, etc., etc., but it turns out that in the last OPE we had, of 740 places that came out, only 57 came out with English. So, we don't see the effort. We don't see it. And speaking of OPE, we are being told about 5,000 new places during the term of office. Well, according to the unions, that would reduce the temporality by only 6%, and yet, since a number is not expected to be too large by 2018, I don't know how we're going to achieve it. The truth is, I don't know, how we're gonna make it. And finally, I want to make a quick reference to investments. And I'm just going to set an example. The UPV has 1 million euros for the maintenance of its facilities. Do you know how many square meters the UPV has? A million square meters. It has 1 million euros for 1 million square meters. A building like the hospital in Basurto, which would also have to be helped not only by Health, but by Heritage, because it is a jewel that we have to take care of, is in conditions in which maintenance people sometimes say it is even dangerous: loose windows, pieces of facades that fall... Finally, I would like to continue to degenerate in the next intervention some of the things that we see that are not working, but above all, what is more important, that are not going to be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u107	Mr. President of Parliament, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. Mrs Bengoechea, the subject of this inquiry, as she points out in her justification, although then in her first speech she wanted to list a whole series of questions which do not seem to her to be going well, and which she intends to continue to increase, in the end, to the aim of making a balance, for, well, it deviates a little from what was coming in the justification, which said: "And after PISA, what is the purpose of the adviser in relation to the measures to be taken to improve the education policy of the Basque Government?". The main goal of our entire activity is to improve our educational system. I have expressed it more than once, and so expressed it at the beginning of the legislation in front of the Board of Education, in the execution of the strategic furrows of the department. As far as the PISA you are referring to in your justification, as I said in my previous scenes, ELGAk 2000. even though from the year he began to participate in the Euskadi Second edition, this evaluation has increased and increased the protagonism in 2003. Many countries have taken a great part of their educational system to produce a good outcome of trial, especially certain peoples in the south-east Asia. This is controversial from the pedagogical point of view, but it shows a reality; PISA, the proof given to students of 15 years, concerning three competitions, and without any connection to any curriculum, is now a letter of introduction which every country employs to present its education to the level of nationality. Besides the propriety of the trial, the view, methodology, and ends, the countries which make the ELGA, especially the most advanced (and always exceptions), have given a value to the test de facto, which we cannot avoid. From this Illus, he must know from Euskaca what has been the effect of this high-mindedness in our education-politics, and must work to make the results better, which, we believe, are the results which can be much better. But, yes, let us not fall into an unjust and unreal analysis of our educational system. Our pillars are solid, and the results support us. Our indicators believe that. School drop-out is minimal: the school drop-out rate in 2016 was 7.9%, the best data from the whole state and below the rate expected by Europe by 2020. In fact, that figure has been improved recently, and we are already at 7.3%. And today, the European Commission at its meeting in Gothenburg, where, among other issues, the future challenges of education will be analysed, will remember that Europe's goal is to reach 10% by 2020. And we, I repeat, are at 7.3%. We reach 99.4% of schooling in three-year-olds and 92.9% in two-year-olds, in this case doubling the state by 52% and much higher than Europe, which stands at 26%. If we look at the repetition rate of 15-year-olds, we have 24.3%, compared to 31% of the state; but still far from Europe, that is to say, it is 12% in the OECD and 15% in Europe of the twenty-eight. We have a highly equitable system, well above the international average: between 75 and 77% of our students are between levels 2, 3 and 4, at the intermediate level. As a positive fact, it also poses a challenge for improvement towards excellence. The level of higher education among the population aged thirty to thirty-four reaches 48.9%, compared to 37.9% in the European Union and 42.3 in the State. They are simply a few data, which also help to establish the picture of our educational system. Repeating, I know we need to improve, of course. There's always a need to get better... We have the chance to learn the whole of society, the education system that offers it the same opportunities of education. But we have learned that we still have a great amount of improvement. To admit that is the first step to make things better. But with that, let's admit that we do a lot of right, that we have a good educational system. By some data and by others, we have the chance to go on with the end of this group, that is, to improve our educational system, to improve our quality and equity to excellence. In that sense, and in answer to your questions or your concerns, we've done different things from the very beginning of the law to tell you about the education measures that's being done. Our bet in the past February is located in the Eukdi 2020 Consistent Human Development strategy which is intended to improve the education system to maintain the social record of excellence. Eighteen specific commitments led by my department for this legislature, and associated with all these commitments, a whole series of concrete initiatives and actions are being developed, the details of which are public, available in the government program. To this day we have developed 59 initiatives and 196 concrete associated actions, which contribute, as it cannot otherwise be, to the improvement of our educational system. Our purpose is to continue to promote the entire development of the person in all its dimensions: To give a proper education to the students, by enabling the development of personal and necessary knowledge and capacity, and the development of discipline and ability to pass into the higher classes of study and to become conscientious citizens (for example, the policy which ensures the right to education, and brings with them the quality of their education) we may not be able to explain the efforts we make for the vets; we make for the incestivance, the eclature, the ectual, and the reversal, to the excellence of discipline, the culture, and the culture of our colleges (for example, the Students, the interest of the planets, and the improvement of the administration of the world), and the improvements of the administration, the improvements of the administration, the improvements of the administration, the improvements of the administration, the administration, and the improvements of the administration, and the improvement of the administration of the administration, the administration, and the improvement of the administration, of the administration of the administration, and the administration of the administration of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, and the administration, of the administration, of the administration of the administration of the administration of the administration of the administration of the administration of the administration, and of the administration of the administration, and the administration of the administration of the administration of the administration of the administration, of the administration of the administration of the administration of the administration of the administration of the administration of the administration, and of the administration, and of the administration, of the administration of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, and of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, and of the administration, and of the administration, of the administration, and of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, of the administration of the administration of the administration of the administration of the administration of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, and of the administration of the administration, and of the administration, and of the administration of the administration, of the administration of the administration of the administration, of the We enhance innovation and educational creativity through the development of excellence projects; we give priority to the formation of the educational community, empowering teachers as the main agent of change and educational improvement. Here we highlight, for example, the new global training initiative, the Bizikasi plan against school harassment, or the impetus to scientific competences. We are moving forward in the plan of improvement with the extension of multilingualism or comprehensive education with Basque as a central vehicle axis; we are promoting the technological modernization of education; we are continuing to develop the Infrastructure Improvement Plan 2014-2018, included in the Renewed Plan of Employment and Economic Reactivation; we have strengthened our model of dual vocational training in relation to the company, becoming a reference to the European level and exporting it as a model of demonstration. We have launched the University-Company Strategy, with the commitment to extend dual education in the university, the impulse of business-university classrooms or the formation of a new cluster, thus driving the university system on the principles of self-requirement, effectiveness and co-responsibility. We work in collaboration with the business fabric to facilitate an initial work experience for 20,000 young people. The integration of youth into work is a priority that requires the cooperation of economic and social actors. As the President remarked on the whole meeting of general politics during the 21st of September, education is the chief priority of this government in the example of euccany for social protection. Education is a challenge, a collective challenge, and the primary factor of social advance. The bet that this government favors education is clean. And, as I have said before, in several instances and enterprises, and in addition to the whole meeting in general politics, I have also explained the commitments and measures taken in the institution of the Education Department of this Government. We share the need to go on from the integral view of education, in the quality of euscal educational system. And for this, justice, socialization, respect for the value, multiplicity, freedom of thought and of belief and human rights, and need to promote the defence of multiplicity. XXI. From this end, we are to ourselves. We propose that we continue to promote the model of the integral education adapted to the rest of the century, which combines scientific culture and human science, which is composed of the learning of life, and gives to students a critical and radical view of reality. You criticize our system, in some measure, but Basque is a good education. Is it getting better? Sure. Does he have to go forward? Sure. Based on quality, on excellence. And in that direction we direct our policy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u109	Counselor, you have begun to reproach me that I had made the inquiry on behalf of PISA and that I had spoken of many things. At one point I said, "Well, you're right," but I got a lot quieter when I saw you talk very little about PISA. He did the same thing to me! It's spread all over the department, which means we have a tie. And I'll tell you something else. If I have had to make that formulation, it is because for two occasions I have been denied the possibility of making an inquiry, for whatever it is, for whatever reason, and I have had to formulate it in this way for it to be accepted. Well, given that we're both talking about a general look at education, you just in the end told me that I'm a critic of education. Let's see, it's my job! I'm not part of the government, I'm not here to clap with my ears! And yet, at first, I told him that very good things are done, and not only did I congratulate you, I congratulated the whole department. But my obligation is to see the things that can be improved and the things that we are most concerned about is that this path of improvement has not begun. For example, you have talked about immigration. We're going to propose some systems, especially one Finnish that exists, to see how we deal with this issue, but what you can't do is catch creatures that come here without knowing either of the two languages, and put them in the middle of a classroom that already has progress. You'll have to do it another way, but that model is failing. You talk about coming to meetings and giving us your presentations. And of course, we thank you and listen to you very carefully, but, you know, not only do you appear on the commissions. They appear to be a multitude of collectives who express their frustration and discontent to us, and we also have to pay attention to them. Also. So, for example, from appearances or personal conversations we know that one of the star things that counsel has right now is to achieve the school pact. Counselor, bad news: you are angry with a lot of members who are going to participate in those five tables. Because those five tables have some themes, and, for starters, and from completely opposite points of view, they do not even agree on the issues to be dealt with. They want to talk about the structure of the system, and they want to talk about the funding of the system. You know better than I do, because you've talked to them. And it can also be the AMPA federation of public school, it can be Kristau Eskola, it can be... A lot of collectives who would have to be at those tables and who refuse to be. So, of course, I see the school pact – which is supposed to be ready for the coming spring, more or less, for the coming summer–..., I see zintzilikan, eh!, because just to get people to feel they're going to have to make a real effort. A real effort to think – and we think so – that in a pact, whatever it is, everyone loses, but everyone wins. If you project an image of rigidity, forget about the school pact. In a pact everyone loses and everyone wins, and I advise you – and forgive me for doing so, not as a parliamentarian, but because I am a person who has great experience in this type of thing – who, either you put it that way, or there is no school pact. The last thing, the law of education. We have to reproach you for leaving it for the last year of the legislature, because, as the school pact goes, etc., etc., you will tell me that I am making a judgment of intent or that I am getting ahead of myself or that I am a little Casandra, but we do not see that we will be able to have passed that new education law. But we're not so worried, you know why? Because with the current one, through decrees, through regulations, through regulations, we could improve a lot. Do not wait for the law of education, please do so already with the law that is currently in force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u111	As usual, Mrs. Bengochea, you've surprised me, but I'm also worried about her. First of all, the view you show about our education doesn't concern reality. Sometimes the problem is not to show, but to wish to see. But I am still more surprised to make myself – in this case it has not been so – responsible not for the results of an evaluation, but for the situation in which the educational system is located, when one of the main threats our educational system has is the last law for the educational improvement imposed by your party, in this case imposed by your party, which, on the other hand, in the face of the rejection generated throughout the educational community, has the system angry (yes, the system angry), and pretends to have the system in a situation of indefinite while they make their political balances. But in the meantime, we're still on our way, we're still moving forward. But I do suggest you think about it. You ask me what I'm going to do, but do you know what the common denominator of the Basque education system is? His rejection of LOMCE. Do you know what most affects, influences and attacks the Basque education system and, therefore, the Basque society? Its invasion of competences, through the LOMCE and the resources that are interposing us. Do you know what threatens the Basque education system? Your resources in front of the scholarships, in front of our scholarships. And you come to me asking me what I'm doing to improve the system. I would beg you, I would suggest you first fix, avoid, in what is in your hand... Because, being a great responsibility of your party part of the problems and threats that our educational system has, if we manage to advance there equally we are also improving our results in the future. I didn't want to focus on PISA because, as I didn't know exactly where I was going to look, I didn't want to focus exactly on how we are solving the PISA issue. Not by solving, but by putting in place measures to improve the results; that are not just a few notes, as you say, but that there is a whole global training initiative, with a whole training process, from the Berritzeguns, the faculty..., and a whole series of initiatives that are being developed in the centers. Therefore, it is much more than you are indicating. You have also made reference to the budgets, and they did not arrive for the salary increase. Ma'am, for the salary increase of course I do. And, in addition to the 1.5% increase, I also explained in the appearance that there was also an advance of money in 2017, which was 38.5 million, which made the percentage allocated to Education, in investment, much higher. With regard to the dual FP, I am not going to enter again into the debate that we have had more than once, because it is not regulated with the LOMCE. LOMCE has taken care to regulate... Basic vocational training is prior to LOMCE, and in fact also part of our journey. You also talked about the OPE, the 5,000 seats. The 5,000 seats are the highest that the State imposes on us with legal certainty. I mean, ma'am, it's the state that's conditioning us how many places we can get in the OPE. And when you talk about university investments, we are strictly complying with the University Plan, with great effort. And that effort we share with the university. With great effort on the part of the university and the administration. Then you told me about the school plan... There will probably be many more things, but I hope we already have more opportunities to talk. You told me about the school pact and the law. I don't know where the information came from, I think she's quite wrong. Anyway, don't worry, because on Wednesday I have a appearance in which I will explain exactly the procedure, the process that is being carried out and that is going to be carried out to get this agreement for education. Of course, there are five groups working, and they are working, and all the agents are participating. You're very wrong. Don't worry, you'll have a chance to get to know the details. I think you're being misinformed. Are people angry? She's mad at LOMCE. People are mad at LOMCE basically. And with regard to the fact that we have left the education law for the end, I believe that a law, an education law, the importance of education for the Basque Country, requires a prior agreement. We need to know among all what educational system we want in the future, and to agree to establish a law among all, not imposed, as has been done in the State.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 16th point in the theme list: "Interpology, the members of the Basque Company, Carmelo Barrio Barroja, made for the head physician of the Medical Department, in the medical system of eucal health." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u113	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, councillors, councillors. Let's talk a little bit now about medicine of the future, so to speak, or about the evolution of the system and of health and medicine. Precision medicine, also called in other ways, is gaining prominence, a true protagonist in many areas: in academic areas, in congressional areas, in scientific medical societies, even in health law congresses. And we saw recently, we had the opportunity to check it in a recent forum of the University of Alcalá, "Precision medicine in the health system", where experts from different fields discussed the impact of this medicine on health organizations, different national and international experiences in the field of personalized medicine, the need to adopt a plan of genomic medicine in Spain, the future of precision medicine and the political initiatives that in this matter are adopting countries of our environment... We also have to say that this issue, with its protagonism, acquires a special dimension in the courts, in Congress or in the Senate. In the Senate with a presentation on the effect that has been put forward, in relation to the experts who are going to appear, it would also be interesting to know what their conclusions are in relation to the strategies that can be adopted throughout the State, in the interterritorial council. But also in Congress, in relation to some possibilities of some parliamentary group, asking for some rules, some modification in relation to the issues, because they are very complex issues and that we have to focus well. From here too we have to go, and I suppose Mr. Darpón will tell us about that. It is clear that it is a powerful issue today. It projects to the future and to the attention of the citizen (not only the patient, the citizen, before he is even patient) in relation to these issues. And, in order for us to make some approach to driving government policies, it is clear that before we can bring here a proposal (a non-law proposal or a motion) it is good to know the opinion, and more the connection of the Department of Health with the so-called precision medicine, also called genomic medicine, personalized medicine..., that is, the names that are being given to identify this concept. Precision medicine not only involves the personalization of medicine, but also plays an important role in prevention and life habits. In this field, technological advances are the best tool to support personalized medicine. There are also proposals. What proposals exist? For the proposal to create a state strategy on precision medicine carried out by medical, oncological societies, Spanish Society of Oncology, pathological anatomy, hospital pharmacy..., some others too. There is also an interesting proposal, where many experts have participated. Proposals for recommendations, implementation of programmes to promote genomic medicine... And it has already been said here that the role of governments is also fundamental in all of this. And, logically, in an area as developed as that of health and health care, and of health research, as is Euskadi, therefore, more reason to know that path that we have to take. On the other hand, the creation of a funding framework, as well as the promotion of research and innovation, are key tools for enhancing changes that allow the health system to adapt to precision medicine, without creating a gap for sustainability. We're just talking about the opposite. On the other hand, public-private collaboration in this area must be enhanced, trying to stimulate private initiative and coordinate it effectively with the public, because it has a lot to say and we have seen interesting experiences in the proposals to which I referred earlier. As discussed in recent days, it highlights the important role that the incorporation of genetic footprints plays, the analysis of natural language in the evolution of precision medicine, genetics should be an essential component in medical practice for the medical advantages it represents (it is, but to a greater extent), a better diagnosis for thousands of genetic diseases, genetic advice, early diagnosis, prevention in families, prognostic evaluation to prevent sudden death, cancer, stroke, personalized treatment (i.e. selection of the best therapy for each individual), discover disease mechanisms to find new treatments, research and development for the benefit of patients and new generations. Well, precision medicine offers citizens personalized, predictive, preventive, even participatory attention. More is said about citizens and not about patients, because this medicine also applies to healthy people, such as a mere preventive value and health promotion. In short, we can affirm that personalized medicine is changing our world, our ability to understand diseases, care, the treatment of doctors with citizens or patients, as well as being very linked to what we also call patient empowerment in relation to these issues and their information. On the other hand, and from the point of view of funding the health system, which is logically important, there have been no resources in years to carry out a diagnosis through genome sequencing; however, the reduction in costs at present, thanks to the enormous advances in technology, has allowed genomic medicine to become an increasingly present reality in health systems, and most countries in our environment have put in place plans to implement it. Among the elements that can be substantially improved with precision medicine, are essential elements of the system: diagnosis, diagnosis of any genetic-based disease, molecular diagnosis of hereditary or sporadic character, pharmacogenetics, pharmacogenomics... That is to say, avoid further toxicities, predict therapeutic responses (a huge number of complications occur today due to the use of false drugs for the treatment of their pathology, or inadequate drugs); preconceptional, pre-implantational and prenatal medicine; susceptibility to preventable diseases and events... That is to say, it is moving very fast, and it has to go around in relation to the neutralisation of the disease. On the other hand, the genomic test can replace hundreds of medical studies, and will help a compatibility analysis on topics such as transplants, the development of preventive behaviors that avoid the risk of illness, etc., etc. Well, those are the fundamental issues that have to do with the progressive implementation of precision medicine, genomic medicine. We have talked, we have talked about the continuous downsizing of the analysis and study processes linked to precision medicine. Indeed, much further progress needs to be made, and many experts are on the subject. One fundamental thing has to be taken into account, and it is the data. We're talking about data, we're talking about data management, we're talking about personal data management (we're talking about personalized medicine) of many people, and the very (two things) interpretation of that data from people, and the processing to be given to that data, plus the need to share information..., the interpretation of all that data. That is, it is a fundamental issue, and it is becoming clear that more attention is needed on it. We have already seen that, somehow, there are experiences in Europe, there are experiences in Spain, there are autonomous experiences... Well, we also know, more or less, that in the Basque Country through the RIS3 strategy there are also these innovation processes, together with the European Horizon 2020 programme, in relation to the Internet for things, in the area of health there is one way to go. But in this regard, and in order to promote from this Parliament, and to know the opinion of the Government, the Government's connection with precision medicine, we ask you about government actions and measures in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u114	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u115	Mrs. President, Congressman, good morning to all of you. First of all, I must say that the Department of Health is working long ago in the medical world of precision. Custom precision medicine or medicine are essentially used in the treatments of goodkological diseases. This kind of medicine allows doctors to be treated as the most likely to help their patient, according to the genetic concept of his illness. Mr. Barrio, I must admit that I am not an expert in personalized medicine, but the Department of Health and Osakidetza have started working to incorporate precision medicine. It is a medicine based on methods that allow to select therapies that are more likely to be effective, depending on the genetic context both of the patient and sometimes of the tissues. Precision medicine is also known as personalized medicine or genomic medicine, and refers mainly to the treatment of cancer diseases. Cancer is a set of diseases of great impact in terms of morbidity and mortality in our society. It is estimated that about 40% of people will be diagnosed with cancer at some point in their lives. But, at the same time as the number of new cases of cancer is increasing (at this time, or last year, 13,500 new cases), there is also progress in the possibilities of early diagnosis and treatment. So much so that cancer is in many cases becoming a chronic disease. From the Department of Health, aware of the incidence and importance of these diseases, we are working on the development of the comprehensive cancer plan of Euskadi, a plan focused on the needs of people with cancer, to provide them with attention focused on their specific needs. The cancer plan is already at an advanced stage, and I therefore hope that it will be able to present and begin its deployment next year, as we announced last week in the budget presentation. The comprehensive cancer plan will be based on three premises. First, a care model based on multidisciplinary care of cancer, focused on the one hand on the promotion of health and its prevention, and on the other on the best health care of patients with cancer processes in each and every stage of their life. Secondly, in an information system able to identify the needs of people with cancer, but also able to measure the results of treatments and their cost. And third, in the approach of precision medicine to cancer treatment, which, we are sure, will gradually gain ground in this field. Thus, the "Oncadological Integral Plan," a plan focused on the needs of a person who has cancer, has three fundamental principles: a model of help which provides quality services from the view of prevention, diagnosis, and therapy; a system of information capable of identifying the needs of people with cancer, and evading health results, and doing a custom medicine. Precision medicine not only consists in diagnosing the presence of an oncological or other pathology, but it goes further, identifying the drugs that best fit each patient according to the type of tumor and the evolutionary state of the tumor. It may also allow therapy to be adapted according to the response to a specific treatment in a particular person. Precision medicine does not only take into account type, location and extent, but also evaluates aspects that can determine the response to treatment, such as genetic changes in tumor cells. This is important, as the genetics of tumor cells can condition the ability to respond to chemotherapy, radiation therapy and immunotherapy treatments, among others. That is, for example, two lung cancers that once seemed identical to us, based on the analysis of their genetic modifications will be able to differentiate into subtypes, and this new classification will allow clinicians to better predict their response to treatments. The best early identification of the response to individual treatment is already a reality for some types of tumors, and it is also expected to spread over the next few years as research is currently underway. The care services themselves are aware of the great transformation that oncology is undergoing in terms of infrastructures, technology or therapies and even the way in which the services themselves are organized. More and more multidisciplinary teams will be needed to evaluate diagnostic and therapeutic actions, composed of specialists who have traditionally been dedicated to the laboratory field, such as genetics, immunology, biochemistry or pathological anatomy. Professionals with whom we have in Basque public health, who will have to be trained in this new knowledge and new techniques to participate in increasingly multidisciplinary clinical decisions. For many years the hospitals have had tumor committees, expert groups to analyze patients with the most complex tumors or who need the attention of different specialties. We also have hospital pharmacy commissions, and a corporate commission, equally multidisciplinary, for the incorporation of the most suitable and efficient new drugs. Similarly, health centres and health research institutes participate in research studies and clinical trials that generate knowledge and offer cutting-edge alternatives to patients and patients. New technologies and therapies for cancer follow rigorous evaluation protocols, which assess ethical, safety and efficiency aspects, thus avoiding risks for patients. Precision medicine is facilitating new forms of relationship with the pharmaceutical industry, incorporating concepts such as payment for results, to pay only for those treatments that achieve the expected results. All these aspects must benefit patients and the sustainability of the health system, which, as everyone knows, is one of our main challenges. The Department of Health, from the Directorate of Research and Innovation, is working to strengthen our capacities in this area and develop precision medicine in our health system. The various actions that have been carried out in this field also include the development of the Basque biobank, the strengthening of scientific-technological platforms, support for R & D projects and the development of areas of personalized medicine in health research institutes, as well as the creation of a working group, currently in force, in personalized medicine, within the priority area RIS3 Biosciences-Health. And we are also participating, in addition to the ministry, in the European International Consortium of Personalized Medicine. Mr. Barrio, as you can see, we are informed of the benefits that the medical experts in the specification are mainly able to bring with them in the list of idealology. For this reason, as I have explained, the eupscal health system gradually develops these methods into cancer treatment, and also anticipates the introduction of a personal medical plan into the integratedological field.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u116	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u117	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor, for the explanations. It is clear that this initiative wanted to highlight, highlight the importance of precision medicine, at this powerful moment, where scientific societies, experts in genomic medicine, precision medicine, are advancing and laying the foundations. That is to say, it has come to such an extent that, in the Senate, with a specific presentation, with many experts to be quoted, and I suppose that with a series of final proposals and conclusions, as well as in Congress, also in relation to a series of initiatives that have to do with urging the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, with the consensus of the rest of the political forces (it gives me the feeling that it is an initiative that wants that), patients, professionals, health care..., a national strategy, state, personalized medicine that has a specific and sufficient budget and a regulatory framework. And I would like to ask you for that, as you understand, as a member of the interterritorial council too, that this strategy can be good and that the Basque Government would be willing to participate in what you are claiming. There is a recent report on proposals for precision medicine which speaks precisely of the fact that a basic issue, in addition to studies, research and analysis, is the involvement of the actors involved, primarily the governments, and logically this too, in a joint strategy. In that regard, he wished to see whether the Basque Government would also be prepared to pursue that strategy in relation to the advancement of custom medicine of precision or genomics. Because the fundamental thing is to be on the net. At the moment, when we see how advances in precision medicine research work, one of the fundamental elements is collaboration, coordination, information in relation to the actors in the process, which are called (professionals, patients, health professionals, researchers) in relation to this topic. And move forward with that state strategy in relation to precision medicine. That is a fundamental element. We have also been served by the information you have given us and by the recognition of the importance of precision medicine, which is being worked on. Indeed, the incidence is primarily in the oncology and the oncological plan, but precision medicine is also developed in other diseases and in other sectors of health and action. And that's why I think it would be good to look for collaboration. At European level, too, we already know the implications. There are some other autonomous communities that have more specific programs; we already know, for example, that of Extremadura with the project Medea, Valencia with the Future Clinic, or Andalusia with the project Genoma Médico. Here we are at the moment with the work of professionals in genetics and genomics, but also in that RIS3 project where the Basque Government participates, but it may need a boost. This serves us to bring a motion in relation to the impulse of precision medicine, which I hope we can share and agree among all parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u118	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u119	Mr. Barrio, we're still working in the custom medicine and we're still doing it. We'll be able to see them on the Onkological Plan Inegral. On the one hand, he's worked to help us with the necessary subsidies. On the other hand, knowledge creates and invests itself in, by means of inquests and developments. As I said, the Department of Health and Osakidetza are working in the field of personalized medicine, and we will continue to do so. It will be present in the next comprehensive cancer plan of Euskadi, it is present in the strategy RIS3 in the field of biosciences, and it is a very important field for us in the three research institutes (Bioaraba, Biodonostia and Biocruces). On the one hand, efforts have been made to support the necessary infrastructure; on the other hand, investments have been made in the generation and integration of knowledge through R & D projects. Among the necessary infrastructures, in addition to some sequencer that we have incorporated into the research institutes, are also included biobanks, an essential asset for the development of biomedical research. In this sense, we have the Basque biobank, the first of the state registry of the biobanks, reference for its quality, management, activity and transparency. The biobank provides samples for research, has collections of interest from both the assistance and research point of view, and participates in European networks and projects, some of which address very important facets for the development of precision medicine, such as the use of clinical data in the face of new technological and scientific scenarios. On the other hand, we are also investing in the generation and integration of knowledge through R & D projects. While the area of oncology, as you have pointed out, is one that shows greater development and implementation in health systems, research in precision medicine – we agree – is cross-cutting and also covers other pathologies. At this point in time, professionals in the Basque health system lead about thirty projects, mainly on breast cancer, prostate, melanoma, haematology, bone sarcomas, glioblastoma, larynx and pancreas, but also on liver or neurological diseases, obesity, pigmentary retinosis and rare diseases, all in relation to precision medicine. The health system will also contribute and participate in international reflection and efforts to address the challenge of implementation. In this sense, Euskadi participated in the elaboration of the European strategy for research and innovation in personalized medicine and in its first action plan, and we are part of the International Consortium of Personalized Medicine promoted in Europe for the development of this field. As I told you, it is also an area in which we have a lot of interest within the RIS3 strategy of Euskadi, and a specific working group was set up, which continues its work, to exchange experiences and propose R & D projects. And at the moment it is establishing a platform of personalized medicine with the assets existing in Euskadi, within which, of course, those of the institutes are located. I am sure you know, there is a report on the relatively recent network (I think it will have a year and a half) signed by Roche, which includes international experiences, mainly that of the United States, the genomics medicine project in both Scotland and the United Kingdom, some other experiences from France, Germany and I think also of Estonia, and also what the ministry has done and what we have done in each of the autonomous communities. There is also our experience with the working groups. We will not have any inconvenience in participating and bringing our knowledge with the rest of the ministry or with the rest of the communities. We understand that this is a field that is going to change certain practices of doing medicine. The practice of sequencing the genome has fallen radically in cost, but at the same time opens up a completely new field in the approach of the treatment of pathologies, and therefore we will try to climb from the beginning. Right now, as you see, there is no coincidence even in the name (there is genomic medicine, personalized medicine, precision medicine...), so we are still at a relatively incipient moment, but you have no doubt that we want to be there from the beginning. She's having a great interest in the Euskologist's work. The specification medicine has ceased to be a future for many years, for it is now in the Osaire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u120	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "Interlation, by Juan Luis Uranus Serrana, members of the Podemos team to the chief physician of the Medical Department, the communal activities of the Vittoria-Gasires."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u121	Andrea Tejeria, counselors, colleagues and companions. Sometimes small and limited problems, within the framework of complex organizational systems, such as Osakidetza, allow us to detect underlying problems, and above all existing trends. Today we bring to this Parliament the case of the team of professionals from Gasteiz who for thirty years have developed community activities in the school community. More than sixty schools, ikastolas and schools in the public and private sectors, and more than 6,000 schoolchildren, year after year, have been seen, reviewed, and educated in health by these professionals. Today, on the basis of criteria for optimisation of resources and restructuring, they have ceased to do so. Nursing professionals carried out part of the vaccinations in the school community and health reviews of the students, and provided health education in the gels, in the classrooms. Today they only carry out vaccinations in some age groups, to the surprise of the professionals themselves and the school community themselves, which are already some cloisters, some management teams, are asking the Osakidetza Directorate of the OSI-Araba for the reasons for this situation. They carried out health promotion tasks, community tasks. In fact, in the different territories in the Basque Country, in the different health centres, coordination and integration processes have been developed for professionals working under the School Health Programme in the primary care teams of the health centres, mainly in order not to duplicate activities. These processes, not without problems, as always when some programmes try to mount on others, have on many occasions strengthened community activities and – I repeat – avoided duplication. The children's and school health programmes of our health centres need to reinforce their community profile, a community impact where these professionals have sometimes been, or may be, real coordinators of some public health programmes, within the framework of a real strategy to promote health promotion. But in Gasteiz it wasn't like that. Some professionals have completed their contracts, others are working on specialized or hospital care, others are integrated in centres abandoning community activities, and half of the team, without further information, continues to vaccinate exclusively in the school community. They have not been offered any retraining to reorganise their community activity or new responsibilities. We are concerned that some management teams do not have this strategic vision that health promotion and prevention is a key orientation for achieving better health outcomes in addition to attempting more sustainable health systems. However, some management teams have understood this, and the process of coordination of activities, which has been developed gradually, has been successful, as in the integrated health organization of Ezkerraldea and Enkanterri itself, or in the integrated health organization of Uribe itself. It is about that the professional teams in the health centers (pedestrians, family doctors and nursing professionals) have sufficient autonomy and organization for their teamwork; that the management teams, vertically, do not tell them continuously what they have to do, or how to organize the programs and activity. Autonomy to organize time to ensure quality in care activities, as well as to ensure sufficient space and time for non-care activities. And quality home care is enhanced, allocating sufficient time, and community interventions (always a problem, the organization of time between care activities and community activities). It is therefore important to have the experience already accumulated of some professionals who have been working in this framework of activity for thirty years. And that's why some of Osakidetza's managers have understood this and have integrated into the primary care teams these experiences of the former School Health Program, which Dr. Rafa Bengoa led in his early days, and gave added value, these integrations of professionals into the teams, to the community activities of the teams and the whole professional, as infecting them. It is very convenient to coordinate and integrate these different organizational dynamics well, it is not a simple issue; take advantage of the experience accumulated in the system, or go to the professionals and collaborate with the general orientation of the health system towards a community profile. We do not need a health system geared towards more technology, more medicalization of life. We need a public health system geared to community activity, oriented to people, oriented to the prevention and promotion of health problems. There seems to be a need to develop ways to devote more time to home care and community work. It seems that it is becoming increasingly urgent for the Health Department itself to redefine its opinion on the role of our nurses in the field of health centres, at the community level, so that they can coordinate well their time and activity with the new needs, which show better health outcomes. You know, Mr. Counsellor, that one of the principles of primary care must be to combine personalized care for each patient and family with community intervention on the determinants of health. I'm talking about the school community, I'm talking about women's groups, I'm talking about pensioners' associations, I'm talking about immigrant groups, etc., etc. The importance of our professionals getting out on the street, detecting problems and working on social determinants of health. To promote the prevention and promotion of health, the basic point of the government program agreed by the PNV and the PSOE, the basic point of the electoral program of the Basque Nationalist Party, the basic point of the electoral program of almost all our political groups, should not be a rhetoric and a mantra that we repeat over and over again. In these small problems, as is the topic of nursing professionals who in Gasteiz do not know at this time what their activity is going to be, after thirty years of doing health promotion work, promoting health prevention and promotion – I insist, and I will insist quite a few times during this legislature – which directs and rationalizes the actions of the health system, it is essential, in addition to strengthening local development structures, local health teams that have to do with civil empowerment processes, to try to collaborate professionals and citizens with the processes of health improvement. We believe, Mr. Counsellor, that it is not a supposition, we understand it so, but it would seem that the management teams of Osakidetza, according to a supposed rationalization of resources or optimization of resources, some make some decisions, others make others, but it is obvious that the same decisions have not been made in Gipuzkoa, Bizkaia and Araba. And in these issues of integrating teams, teams with different cultures, which I'm not saying is not complex, here's the thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u122	Thank you, Mr. Uria. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u123	Mrs. President, Congressman, Mr. Uria. First of all, I want to say: I have a great respect for professionals and managers in integrated sanitarian organizations. I know, and I think you know well, how hard it is for you to go through the day's work, make decisions, and carry an ESI forward in the right way. And as long as I'm respected by workers' rights and temporal conditions, I'll always defend the management of Hosa as a public practice. That's how you should do it, too. As I said, I have absolute respect for both the professionals and the managers who run Osakidetza. I share with you the autonomy you need, what happens is that sometimes it gives me the impression that only union problems need autonomy. I believe that managers also need autonomy, and that sometimes, although we have to have a common denominator, there is no reason why we should do it exactly the same in Amurrio as in Irun. I know how difficult it is to manage day-to-day organizations of the complexity and size of Osakidetza, organizations that work for people 365 days a year, 24 hours, in an area as delicate as that of health. I trust your commitment, responsibility and know-how. In the case that you bring today, I trust and respect the work and decisions of the leadership of the Arab SBI, I respect the autonomy of management that you enjoy, and I believe it cannot be otherwise. As I was saying, I believe that the leadership of the Arab SBI has the power to decide in the area for which you are asking me, and it would be up to them to answer. In any case, since I'm the one he's asking, I'll try to explain it to him. Indeed, as he has said, until a few months ago there was a team of professionals who were carrying out health promotion activities in the school community, according to the School Health Program that was developed in his day. And when I say "in your day," and as you and I know, we're talking about the 81-82 school year, thirty-six years ago. Almost-almost could have taken the measurements and weight from you and me, which is when the school health team set up in Álava. Since then, the organization of health services and the health needs of Basques and Basques have changed significantly, also the community. As you know, in those years that we are talking about, and when that health team was created, Osakidetza had not even been created, since it was created by law in the year 83. Nor did there exist the Sanitary Ordination Act, which dates back to 97. The state's health resources had not been transferred to Euskadi, there were not many of the current health centres, we had no screening programmes, nor many of the plans for health prevention and promotion; primary care had nothing to do with what we have today, and, not to mention health organizations, etc. Very important: there was also no standardized vaccination schedule, since it was approved in the year 86, when the Advisory Council on Child Vaccination was set up. At that time, then, more than three decades ago, a school health team was set up with the very good objectives of achieving the highest possible coverage in immunization, identifying health problems in early stages, and promoting healthy health habits in classrooms. Because Osakidetza and our health teams have always had the scope of promotion clear. Subsequently, already with the creation of Osakidetza, the Children's Health Program was implemented, and it was implemented in health centers, with nurses and nurses and the supervision of pediatricians, and gradually the objectives of those initial teams have been assumed, improving the benefits. This process has been leading to a gradual reorganization of work in those school health teams. The health review activities of boys and girls that were then carried out in schools have been concentrated in health centers, part by nursing, part by pediatrics, through the Children's Health Program, with the good goal – I understand you share with me – of avoiding duplication in child health care. So the initial health examinations are now performed in the health centres and contains programmes of child health. Thanks to that, integrity is avoided and the danger of medicalisation from these children is diminished. In addition, I must say, that most of the Osagei are organized in this manner, and that the results obtained are good. This is not something that has happened exclusively in the Arab OSI, as you pointed out, but that the school health teams, after thirty-six years, have been gradually adapting to the new needs of the various OSI of Osakidetza. In fact, most of them no longer have a specific school health team today, and these activities, such as the community, are integrated into all the professionals who care for the paediatric population. Nurses and nurses are responsible for immunizing the child population in schools, and reviews are undertaken within the Healthy Child Programme in health centres. In my opinion, and I am sure that I share it with you, it is important to move forward and adapt organizations to new, more modern, effective and efficient organizational formulas, and, above all, to continue to address the health needs of the population, which has always had, as is the community, but also the new health needs, and, above all, to identify what brings added value to improving care activity, and not to do for continuity what we have been doing for thirty-six years in the same way. And this is what happened at the Arab OSI with the school health team. And I assure you that professionals have been taken into account in the process of adaptation. Initially, the school health staff consisted of four teams: three composed of a nurse care technician and a nurse, and a team composed of two nurses. In other words, the program had five nurses and three nursing technicians. The school health teams active at the moment only intervene in Vitoria-Gasteiz, as it has always been, since in the rural area it was the primary care nurses who were responsible for the activity. Finally, the OSI has decided to maintain a team of three nurses and a nurse care technician, to carry out vaccination in schools and to maintain a close relationship with schools. I will give you a curiosity, which I'm sure you know: the activity of the school health team was basically vaccination, and, curiously, last year, thanks to a royal decree of the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality, they ran out of work, and it seemed to them that they no longer had to immunize. This team acts as a coordinator of preventive activities and health promotion from health centres. The formation of the new team and its relationship with the school world has been agreed with the professionals who were part of the school health team, and the rest (two nurses) have been offered different destinations in primary care in the pediatric environment, and, of the two nursing technicians, one has been assigned to specific care for school children with special needs, and another to another destination also in primary care, if I do not have the wrong information. The newly formed team has been located in the Lakuabizkarra health centre, primary care, and is framed in the development of the comprehensive child care process. We're sure that with this new way of organizing service we give our children a better coordination and service. As you can see, we think that Osakidetza advances, adapts to new times, to new needs, innovates in organizational and care methods, taking into account the final objective, which is nothing but to improve the health of Basques and Basques, without losing the sustainability of the system. I fully share with you the autonomy of management of our teams as well as the autonomy in professional practice, but autonomy must always be so. It must always be this way; that is, it is not when it is good for one or when it is not. We are not going to abandon community activity, we are convinced that it is very important, but we are also convinced that when a person has cancer or needs a hip prosthesis, at that time we do not need community activity, we need technology and qualification. Therefore, the health system is a balance of primary care, which must be strengthened, community activity, promotion and prevention, but also high technology, high specialization, multidisciplinary equipment. Because it is also true that with the promotion and prevention of health we cannot prevent people from getting sick with aging and we must also care for them. But I share a lot of your speech. But I am convinced that people have been relocated, and we cannot keep an organization the same, after thirty-six years, just because it already existed and for continuity. And in this case basically what it has brought is more a job complaint from the professionals who were on that team and who have relocated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u124	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u125	Bakartxo Tejeria andrea, compañeros and compañeras. Mr. Darpón, I do not bring a job complaint from the workers of Osakidetza, the nursing professionals. There are trade unions, there are means, there are negotiation processes for everyone to organize the defense of their legitimate interests. I bring a problem that you have mentioned, which is what gives added value to our system right now. How will we be against that our system needs high technology for some diagnostic and therapeutic processes! How are we going to be against the short time that Araba's management team has, having HUA under construction and with an important level of complexity! All I'm saying is that when there's deep problems... Why have they not done in the Arab OSI as in Uribe, or as in Ezkerraldea, or as in other OSI of Gipuzkoa? Explaining to the professional teams what the situation is, that the School Health Program had its historical dimension and must be integrated into the primary care teams, with new community responsibilities, which no one has explained to them! I do not deal with labour problems at this time and in these circumstances. I am dealing with vertical working methods that need to be modified. I am starting with value-added processes, as you say, the community dynamics of the centres, which must be strengthened and emulated in the organisational process. I think that, when there are complex units to organize and coordinate, it puts in added value – I insist on the subject – what we think is new and can give our teams, our health centers, more prestige in front of the population, more prestige in front of the social groups and more prestige in front of the communities where we live. You know and I know there's a lot of rhetoric in these matters. All our electoral programs, all government plans, all talk about promotion and prevention. Both in the budgets (we have made some partial amendments on the subject) and in cases such as this, in small cases, singular cases, not generalizable to the whole of the three territories, because they show, I insist, that there are some friends of my leaders of the Arab OSI very missed with the subject... I think it's very simple to explain to people what you want to do. I think it's very easy to recycle nurses from the School Health Program, which is thirty-six years old, as he explains well, but no one can explain to the school community that educational talks or health reviews are baladian matters. And no one has to explain that it is the pediatricians who have to check, no, sir, the pediatricians have other tasks. The review of the healthy child and child, and the review of activities with child age and school age, are part of the team: pediatrics, nursing, care technicians. They are integral activities, where we must review, in light of the situation we have, the added value, as you well know, that the pediatrician and the doctor or family doctor give. I do not want to expand; I just want to say that I share that changing cultures is very complicated, but I am not here to defend what is called resistance to change. There are many professionals, of different types of health as well, who are changed their professional activity without counting on their opinion, and resistance to change creates problems that are already in the press in Gasteiz. By another method, asking people, integrating in teams of health centers, and not putting the nursing companions... In Lakuabizkarra it seems to me that there are the four you have said, right? It's four o'clock without knowing very well what to do (How without knowing what to do! You are nursing professionals and you know perfectly well...), you are not integrated in any team of Vitoria... Well, he said that actually the nursing team has new tasks on the teams. Less one, that is in oncology, another that is in digestive, and another contract that is finished and simply the square is dampened or changed. I mean, there's been everything. That of passing nursing professionals, even if there are two, look, counselor, what I say to you, even if there are two, to specialized care, and usurping places to primary care, today is not a receipt. Although the interested one went of her own accord to digestive consultation, but not to oncology, and not another, which is in the prison of Zaballa, a matter that seems to me very well, but I do not know if it seems to her very well. What I want to say is that, beyond labour rights, people should be asked...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u126	Thank you, Mr. Uria, your time is up... Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u127	Mr. Uria, you are really so worried about the educational formation. You know the pattern has changed for years. Now there are several ESIs who work like that, no problem at all. Mr. Uria, we agree, we agree. It would not be acceptable for you to make a motion as a result of questioning this issue. Bring an inquiry into the community care model of our primary care teams and the recognition and importance to be given, because I will agree with you. I'm sure I'll agree with you. Either you or me, we have different information. We'll check it, we'll check it. I've been assured that no primary care places have been deducted, and that by that nurse who has voluntarily gone to the digestive system, which you have appointed, another nurse has been placed in primary care. But, well, we'll check it out, because one, obviously, can't be in everything. I hope the Arab OSI team has time to manage its scope, because, if not, I imagine. In any case, you know that for years the model has been transforming, and that there are several OSI, that you have named two or three of the still have a school health team... I'm not gonna waste all of your time naming the other twelve who no longer have a school health team. It is also important to know that there have been no complaints, either by parents or by schools. The Education Delegation has worked, has been informed at all times, and has expressed its consent to this. A nurse care technician has been dedicated to school children with special health needs, which was a problem that we had and that we have to deal with in the whole of the territories of Euskadi, because it seems to us really important. In fact, collaboration with the Department of Education through the Berritzeguns and the centres' directorates is putting it on the agendas of all OSIs. You know and believe that you share the experience we are carrying out with local health networks: community, municipal, joint work between primary care, public health and local associations. The area to which we are giving great importance is very well received by the municipalities, it is very well received by the primary care professionals, and we must also put the train in the lanes. Now, you'll agree with me. I have not always had the responsibility, I also remember some of your responsibility in the Barrualde region, and the discourse of community care is easy to do and is not so easy to carry it structurally and in a way maintained to the care practice, to measure its results and to be sure that what one is doing is right. In any case, we believe that the current situation has many advantages, in which I would highlight the fact that the new model avoids duplication in the reviews, and a theme for me and I think that also for you very important: we must try to prevent the child population from taking on a risk of medicalization like the one we already have in the adult population. I'm glad to hear you're not going to defend that a nurse can't go to Zaballa. We could get there! Zaballa Prison is a population more, with the same right to health as you and me. And the Zaballa health center is served from a primary care team that is in the Zaballa center itself, as it should be. And this nurse has joined that center of Zaballa. Of course, it has been incorporated into primary care and promotion and prevention activities, which, unfortunately, are even more important in the prison sphere than outside these centres. In short, Mr. Uria, the promotional actions of children's health are guaranteed. The child's health conditioning is now performed in the medical centres. And we really think this model has clear benefits. On the one hand, privileges are avoided, and, on the other hand, the symptoms of medicalisation are diminished. So you don't have to worry about children's health. And then I want to end by telling you, be sure that health promotion activities in the child population of Álava are guaranteed. I'd just miss it! It is a key activity of the OIOS management team and of the Alava primary care team as a whole.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u128	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The 18th point in the subject list: "Ask the question, José Ramone Becerra Carollo, a member of the Podemos to the head of the Medical Department, concerning the dangers derived from Petronor's practice on the health of the inhabitants." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u129	Mr. Darpón, good morning. You have already heard me question Mrs Tapia and Mr Arriola, and I wanted you to tell me, after 2013, when the coke plant, which is working badly, comes into operation, what has your department done to ensure the health of people in the region?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u130	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u131	Mrs. President, members of the legislature. I have listened to you with interest, Mr Becerra, and my department has done what it has done to fulfil its obligations.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u132	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u133	Well, then let's take a look at your duties, Mr. Darpón. Look, I assume that every industrial activity – Mr Arriola has said – has an impact. The contaminant load that Petronor is allowed to pour each year is 11,000 tonnes of sulphur oxides, 3,300 tonnes of nitrogen oxides and 350 tonnes of particulate matter. All of these contaminants each year, obviously, have repercussions that are undeniable: they can (say they can) cause asthma, they can cause respiratory failure, and they can cause chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Look, this is the map of the Left Margin, the EPOC map of the Left Margin: the sense of wind is like this, and each brown frame is 50% more likely to have EPOC on the Left Margin than on the Right Margin. [[Show a paper]] This when it works well Petronor, and you know it. When Petronor works badly, the pollutants that come out are not the same. Petronor recognizes in the State Emissions Registry that every year it throws 675 kilos of chromium into the atmosphere. Chromium is a proven lung cancer. Look, this is the map of Euskadi lung cancer: the pictures in beige are the pictures that are between 10 and 15% more likely to have lung cancer than the rest of Euskadi. [[Show a paper]] I don't establish the relationship, I just throw the data. Petronor also throws 50 kilos of cadmium into the atmosphere every year. Cadmium is a proven prostate carcinogen. This is the map of prostate cancer in the Left Margen: between 10 and 25% more probability of prostate cancer not in the Left Margen, but in the refinery environment, than in the rest of Euskadi. [[Show a paper]] It also throws 60 kilos of arsenic. Arsenic is a carcinogen tested for esophagus and larynx. This is Euskadi's top digestive tract cancer map (the wind's sense is so, so it is): more than 25% and up to 50% more probability of upper digestive tract cancer. (Paper bat erakutsi du) I do not establish the relationship, you have to establish your department, the technicians of your department. There's three evidence here. The first is that there is an inevitable affection on the part of the activity. The second is that since 2013 the refinery has not worked well, and therefore this usual impact has increased. And the third evidence is that the data you are using to assess the risk – as I told Mr Arriola earlier – is not complete, because the environment is not measuring everything you have to measure, and it increasingly establishes fewer measurement controls. And I am not going to hold you responsible, of course, for these maps or for not having the data, but the reality is that your officials, when they appeared here in Parliament, have said, with regard to the polluting episodes, that they say that they "affect the welfare of the population, and we put it this way and so we told the Environment, that we thought they had to take steps to ensure that they, who are responsible for monitoring Petronor's actions and environmental control, do their job".
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u134	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u135	Becerra jauna, we know the maps; in fact, if you enter the website of the department, which you probably have, you will see how we have established by different regions, by different municipalities, different risks. What has not been established by any health department technician, and it is imprudent to do so, is, in diseases that are multi-causal, to bring the ascua to its sardine, and to say that the highest incidence of prostate cancer (which is primarily the cause of aging) in the Left Margin is by Petronor. Really, that's not science; that's, well, parliamentaryism something cheap. With respect, excuse me. Look, Mr Arriola said: no scientific study is necessary to know that above Mount Gorbea there is a much healthier environment and air than in some industrial areas of the Left Margin or other areas of the Basque Country, that is true, but it is that, if not, we have to devote ourselves to grazing, and that goes downhill. The potential health risks of the population of Muskiz and Abanto and Zierbana related to Petronor's activity are controlled. The past legislature the Department of Health and the department responsible for the environment, in this case with Mrs Oregi, and we continue now with Mr Arriola, we collaborate in the elaboration of a health risk assessment, with the aim of estimating possible associated risks. Because this is not a political issue. We, as a government (the Basque Nationalist Party, the Socialist Party), in which we do not sicken the population we have as much interest as your group, do not hesitate. Of course we want to maintain industrial activity, of which we live, but we have as much interest in the health of the population as you do. From the overall evaluation of the study, which will also know it, it was deduced that the situation of the levels of intake of the compounds analyzed is relatively good. Relatively good. One of the conclusions of the study is that the situation is good. On the other hand, concentrations of legally regulated pollutants are below established limits, and I believe that Mr Arriola has also said so. I mean, we have to stick to the control of what's legally established. And then I would not presume that in the European Union, which is currently marking certain ranks, they are incompetent. I'd be careful. I'm not an expert in this matter, but I'd be careful. On the other hand, in the risk assessment for exposure to volatile organic compounds, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and metals for chronic effects, the report itself concludes that the impact is disposable for effects other than cancer, and very low for cancer, with mean values much lower than those set out in the current European standard. Measures taken jointly with the Department of Housing and Environment include meetings with municipalities, neighbours and Petronor to assess risk conclusions. Work has been done to improve knowledge of emissions and air quality in the environment, as well as to optimize air quality control systems. And we are also working with the Directorate of Emergency and Meteorology to maintain surveillance and response to the incidences that may cause a health condition. On the other hand, we know that Petronor has revised its protocols for early care, with alarm systems for volatile organic compounds, in case it is opportune to act immediately. In short, I believe that the technicians of the Department of Health and those who manage it do what has been in our hands since law enforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u136	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of Laura Garrido Knörr of the Popula team made to the head physician of the Medical Department, a specialist in the pediatry specialty. " Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Well, counselor, we are bringing back to this Parliament an issue that is not new, which is the issue of the lack of pediatricians in primary care. The counselor had an opportunity to answer an inquiry on this issue, and in a question recently put by this group he pointed out that, in the absence of pediatric specialists to cover primary care places (there is therefore recognition of the situation), a review of the current situation was being carried out from the Department of Health and Osakidetza to take action and improve such care. We therefore ask you, Mr. Counsellor, whether it is your department's intention to take measures to alleviate the shortage of pediatricians in primary care in our autonomous community.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u138	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u139	Mrs. President, members of the legislature. Mrs Garrido, in Euskadi we enjoy good pediatric assistance – do not take my words cut off – in the area of primary care and hospital care, and you also know that. Which doesn't mean you can't get better. In this line, we work to maintain the model of pediatric care in primary care and to ensure that all boys and girls are cared for by pediatricians. As you said, this topic is not new, but do not forget you: it is not specific to Osakidetza. If you have any doubts, I invite you to visit the autonomous communities governed by the People's Party, with one of whose counselor I have a very good relationship and we usually share the subject of pediatrics. Communities like Galicia, La Rioja, Castile and León or Murcia, whose pediatric ratios in primary care are much lower, and sometimes look at us with envy. Children and young men nowadays, as far as their health is concerned, are well treated and will be so again. For as to the supply of peatria for the next years, we may say that the predictions are adequate. In any case, we'll continue to work in this area to improve ourselves.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u140	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u141	Well, counselor, always throwing balloons out. I am very glad that the figures here are better, but here there are problems, and you have recognized them. I have read him the textual answer to the question I asked him, and he acknowledges the lack of pediatric specialists and says they are doing a review. That's why we asked him when that review was going to take place. But it is that, moreover, you in the inquiry made on May 19th, in the inquiry that rested on this issue, told us that, in the absence of pediatricians, you pointed out that a group of reflection of pediatricians (primary and hospital care pediatricians), more pediatric nursing staff, more technicians from the Department of Health and Osakidetza had been formed. I mean, you've been thinking since last year. I mean this is a recurring topic, you've recognized it. That is why we ask you about the results of this review to which you refer in this reply, the reflection to which you referred in this case to Mr Uria in the inquiry. He was telling us that they were doing an analysis of that situation, of resources, of results, and of planning measures and alternatives. That is why we want to know if this review is being carried out; if it is being carried out, when it will be completed; if it has already been carried out, what are those results. We want information, Mr. Counsellor, not to be answered with data from other autonomous communities. That I am glad that we are better here, but perhaps here we would have to be much better than we are, also taking into account the effort made by this department and that you were detailing us departure by departure recently, in the presentation of the budgets. It is that we are the autonomous community that has a higher expenditure (a thousand six hundred and sixty-six euros I think it was; if not, you now say the figure and remind us) per inhabitant! And furthermore, counselor, you know that this is going to be a widespread problem, and that it is going to go further the lack of specialists, the lack of doctors and the lack of specialists in pediatrics, because of the issue of retirements. It's a subject that... Yeah, yeah. Yes, yes, on the subject of retirements; on the subject that we also have added difficulties in retaining the professionals who are trained, because they go to other environments in which, for example, they do not have the demand for the level of Basque required in this autonomous community, or, why not say, pediatricians who also go to other countries in our environment. Problems also that pediatric specialists see much more favorable for their professional development care in hospitals. This is also a widespread problem. Therefore, Mr. Counsellor, it is a problem that you are here today and that tomorrow will be exacerbated by all these circumstances that I am pointing out to you. That is why, Mr Councillor, the question is simply, since you have acknowledged the problem, it is in a process of reflection for a long time, of revision, so we want to know when this process will be completed, whether it is finished or not, and to tell us something about this issue, which I believe is a matter of concern, beyond telling us that we are better than in other autonomous communities. When parents here take their children to health centres and there are problems in the staff, what they want is answers, answers by the competent institution, which is in this case the Department of Health.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u142	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. In answer, Mr. Darpón is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u143	Mrs. Garrido, the department is analyzing the current situation, is looking for alternatives that will improve a problem that is not specific to us and in which many tools are needed, some of them the ministry. In a nutshell, I'm going to give you the situation. In 2010, when you supported the Government, 273 pediatricians worked in primary care; now 272 are working in primary care. Birth has declined: only last year were 2,019 children born less than in 2010. Today, the big problem we have is that 86% of the child population is cared for by pediatricians. We have a distribution of pediatric emergencies in the three territories that work 24 hours, 365 days a year, as they have few countries in the world, without asking for anything, absolutely accessible. The average number of children per child/healthy population is below the ratio considered optimal by the Spanish Pediatric Association. The frequency has been decreasing. Today, accessibility to primary care has increased, as we have been opening pediatric services in the afternoon in sixty-eight health centres, despite the criteria of the Basque Association of Pediatrics, which he would like everyone to work in the morning. We form twenty-four MIR of pediatrics per year, a number higher than expected retirements. It is difficult for pediatricians to go abroad, especially to the United Kingdom or France, where there are no pediatricians in primary care. They may go to hospital, but certainly not to primary care. We have long applied to the ministry (more than 24 months) for the accreditation of three more MIR places, and we are waiting for the answer. At the last interterritorial council we put the problem on the table, with applause from some communities of the People's Party, which seemed to them absolutely opportune, and asked for the competence to credit our own places. I share with you your concern about the problem, with which I have no doubt that from now on I will have one more ally for the Government of Spain to decide to cooperate in the solution. In the meantime, you have no doubt, we have no influence on the university curriculum, and the MIR curriculum in pediatric training, unfortunately (and I will repeat it, unfortunately), is absolutely hospitable, and for a few years now pediatricians prefer to work in pediatric subspecialities rather than in primary care. Against this we are fighting for the boys and girls of Euskadi.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u144	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The twentieth point in the theme list: "Ask me, find Casanova Alonso EH collect members of the team of the press of Tourism, commerce, and Communcations about the tourisms of fun." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u145	Good afternoon. At the beginning of November, the World Travelle Market was built in London to promote the tourism between the nations, and there was a delegation from the Basquetour Agency. We've heard of this through media, but this year something seems to have happened in comparison with the presence that had been with him for years. This year, Basquetour's presence has been by the agency of the Turspeña Agency, the agency that runs the Spanish tourist mark has appeared with Basquetour. And that's why we're asking the chief physician that almost from now on he's gonna be handing the international Tourse Fusegna.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u146	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. To answer, Mr. Retortillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u147	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Casanova, my department is certainly committed to the international promotion of Euskadi as a tourist destination, and that is why we have been attending several international fairs, as has been happening for years. In most of them the Basque Government uses the coverage offered by Turespana, this year and the past. So it was at eleven of the fourteen fairs in which he participated last year, and it will be in sixteen of the eighteen of this year. Turespana, as you know, is a public body attached to the Secretariat of State for Tourism. Among its functions, in fact, is that of the management of the Spanish brand in its tourist dimension, but that is not its only function. For us, the assistance that it offers to the tourist agencies of the autonomous communities for their international tourism promotion is essential. The value of its promotion is reflected in the thirty-three tourist promotion offices that it has spread around the world, with professional staff, experienced and knowledgeable of the tourism promotion keys appropriate to the country in question. That is why most international fairs are attended with your cooperation, and because of the cost, rather than with an individual stand, we do so with a stand of our own in the space that Turespana reserves. In the case of this year's World Travel Market, in that space we have 70 square meters for our stand, most of which was dedicated to the space that Basque companies used for their business relations with tour operators. Therefore, and in response to your question, the Basque Government and my department have not decided to go now with Turespana in the international tourism promotion of Euskadi, but, as it has been doing – and it would be absurd not to take advantage of it – it is using Turespana's collaboration in international tourism promotion to the tourist agencies of the autonomous communities. A collaboration that is not only limited to participation in fairs, but also to many other promotional activities that take place throughout the year in different countries: presentations to specialized press, workshops with tour operators, reverse days in the destination, press and fam trips, etc.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u148	Thank you, Mr. Retortillo. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u149	Yeah. In the law of Tourism, it is plain that in the policy of suffrages, the government of Tourism, it is a purpose to make Euscadi be regarded as an incomparable and unique goal. The finish line is unique and unique. Destino distinto y diferenciado. It also happens that Euskawa is to be encouraged as a tourist's standard, and it is planned to promote the tourists' resources in order to promote the internal and external projections of the Basques as well as as in the way of a global tourism offer and a brand-mark: Euskadi Basque Countrymark. We believe that Euskadi Basque Country record and this image is not compatible. It's not compatible. I'd show you this side, but there are no government members on this side, but to make it clear, Spain is part of you isn't part of our tourist suite. Like Spain is part of you, I have no doubt about it, you are also in your perfect right, because that responds to your particular ideology. You, as a citizen and a member of the Socialist Party, can defend that option with total legitimacy, but, of course, I believe that neither in this House nor in Basque society do a majority of citizens feel represented by a tourist promotion that takes place in these parameters. And it is not just a political issue, but, as we have discussed more than once, the strength of the Basque Country tourist brand lies precisely in a promotion, an identity and a differentiated image. On more than one occasion, in the wake of other debates, you have bitterly complained that some complaints about the massification or massification cones that we are living in some tourist destinations associate us, causing irremediable damage to our image, with other sun and beach destinations, and compared us to Peñíscola. Well, man, I think we're more associated with Peñíscola going with a Spanish poster is part of you than any other kind of complaints that stay in a closer environment. Therefore, not only for political or ideological reasons, for feelings of belonging or not belonging, but also for practical reasons of promotion of a tourist destination that, as the law says, must be proper and differentiated, we understand that promotion, especially in the international sphere, must come from the hand of a brand of its own, and must not be shared with a brand that is a very strong brand at the level of tourist promotion, but that also in the collective imagination of international public opinion projects a series of images on what is an absolutely different tourist model, and in some cases antagonistic to what should be our model. This year they have gone to London; although on other occasions it has been done by the hand of Turespana, in the years prior to London it had not left by the hand of Turespana, and with its entry into the Government it has again left by the hand of Turespana. It's no wonder, because also at the time other people who are in his cabinet proposed to promote Euskadi with that famous I need Spain. I tell you to stop getting into puddles, and to make a tourist promotion of the Basque Country brand as it should be, to seek collaboration with Nafarroa and Iparralde, and to defend a tourism model of your own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u150	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mr. Retortillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u151	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Casanova, that Spain is part of you, as you will know, or should know, is the claim that Turespana directs to tourists. And you could have taken here a picture of the Euskadi stand, which is what we're talking about, not the Turespana frame, which set in its promotional space at this fair. But I'll tell you more. In international promotion actions, we are often accompanied by other institutions, both outside and municipal. In this respect, you do not mention (you have not mentioned, I do not know if on purpose or out of ignorance) that when EH Bildu held the mayor's office of San Sebastián and the deputy of Gipuzkoa both institutions made use of the services of Turespana, both at fairs – ask him who was director of Tourism with Mr Garitano – and in press and fam trips, especially in the strategy of internationalization tourism prior to the European cultural capital. Rather, his question seems to obey a particular prejudice of his, which he already expressed this summer, without anyone asking him and without anyone authorizing him to do so, when he reprobated that the Socialist Party was in charge of the promotion, and added – and I quote – "and the dissemination of the image of Euskal Herria abroad." That task is more coral than you suppose, as much as my department will contribute significantly from the promotion of the Basque Autonomous Community as a tourist destination. If what he means is that his peace of mind needs the Socialist Party outside the Basque Government; even more so, if what he wants to express is a "quite yourself to put me on", then say it like that, without circumloquies, and let another answer, that gives me the laugh. Because, frankly, Mr Casanova, between using Turespana's services to promote the international promotion of Euskadi as a tourist destination, which seems to alarm you, or stopping trains at the pace of the Macarena, which is what alarms me, there is no color at all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-17.u152	Thank you, Mr. Retortillo. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was two o'clock in the afternoon and thirty-one.
