ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I just want you to know that the first point is left for another. And besides this, in the presence of the attacks that were in London yesterday, we shall have a minute's silence at 12:00 p.m. outside at 12:00 p.m. We will go on to the previous subject: "Advance of the Committee of Incomprehensibility, based on the compatibility condition of the Basque Organization of Women's Negotiation candidates of the Council. The controversy and final deliberation of the Constitution, and the design of the members of that council, may be so. Any members of the board, against judgment or favor? No. Some group either for judgment or against it? Then, simply, we vote for the resolution of the union committee. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 74; the supporters are 74; the opposites are 0; white, 0; 0; abstations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u1	So the judgment has been accepted. Next, having approved the judgment, we shall proceed to the procedure of appointing the members of the Council of the Basque Office of Women. Yes, Mr. Uruzuno?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u2	Yeah. We retreat the nomination of Patricia Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u3	Okay. Patricia Ruiz Cascajar, is that it? Therefore, the procedure which we shall carry forward will be an appeal of assent. As a result, Barrea Ocerin, María Victoria, De Iturate Ibaréz, Málaga Pérez, Emilia Montserrat, Gold Herrera, Diana Carolina, and Zarea Aguire, Mirere, and they will be members of the Basque Office of Women. [[Berber]] No? Is one missing? Oh, Romero Maho, Julia. Yeah, I'm sorry. Six o'clock. Romero Maho, Julia, too. Second point on the subject list: "In the same way as the parliamentary Podemos, with regard to youth. Discipline and final resolution. Together in Podemos, the representative has the word. Mr. Bollain, it's yours to introduce the word and take it off.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u4	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, Congressman, good morning to all of you. To this meeting at the present day we have brought another proposal concerning the state of youth as a preparation. For us, it is essential that we should make politics for the collective ones who have been most severe in the crisis, and no doubt the young are one of these collective ones. It's been years since the kids have got more and more serious problems. Young people sometimes don't know what the government's talking about the Euska oasis. No, these kids have been living in the desert for years on top of it. A serious situation, with great difficulties to bring life forward, and for the most part a worthy life. Dignity is but a mirage for many of us; a fancy, an illusion. We see, on the horizon, the proper conditions of life, and, despite the great trouble of catching them, our daily, week, and monthly headache remains. He said that it is already a few years in which the youth of this country are suffering more in order to try to have a dignified life, but structurally it has always been a collective that we do not put in its place. Youth is the future of society, and as such it is a duty to bet on it. My generation was told that we would study so that we could have a worthy future, that we would swell our elbows, that if we studied a career or a higher degree we would have a decent job with which to realize and live quietly. However, that is not true today: in the most prepared generation we have ever had in Euskadi we see how youth unemployment is around 30%, figures that are really scandalous. There is no doubt that in times of economic recession, employment contracts and the number of unemployed are increasing throughout society, but we cannot forget, as the United Nations global report concluded on 6 February 2012, that these periods are doubly problematic for young people. They are not only the first objective of job cuts, but also their transition from the education system to the labour market becomes almost impossible. Thus, the new situation of young people is characterized by the difficulty in the transition from academic to professional life, which undoubtedly leads to a delay in emancipation: only 48 % of our young people have emancipated, and the average age to take the step is thirty years, even though the Basque youth themselves believe that the ideal age for them is twenty-four. However, in Europe the average age for independence is twenty-six, although in countries with strong employment policies this age is considerably reduced. This is the case in Denmark, for example, where young people leave home at twenty-one, and only 16% of them live with their parents. The same Jon Redondo, director of Youth of the Basque Government, said in 2015 that in Euskadi the main problem that makes emancipation difficult is unemployment, because it prevents young people from having their own economic resources to take this step. Because, moreover, the working conditions of Basque youth in general do not encourage the departure of the fatherly home, since temporary contracts predominate and part-time workers have increased, which means that young people accept reduced hours because they do not find full-time jobs. And, as the data shows – it's not something I'm inventing right now – it can't be obviated that among young workers precarious and low-paid employment prevails, making the life project of what is now known as the society of uncertainty or risk enormously difficult. On 14 November 2013, a non-legislative proposal for a presentation to address youth issues was discussed in Parliament, and a compromise amendment signed by EH Bildu and the Basque Nationalist Party was adopted calling for further work with the III Youth Plan and for the presentation to be carried out. For the presentation seventy-six requests were made, and, in view of the large number, they were reduced to seventeen according to the priorities of the parties. However, for the young plan there is no specific budget line, and that in a year when it comes to mid-term evaluation. Article 10 of the Statute of Gernika details the matters in which the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country has exclusive competence, and paragraph 39 of that article reads as follows: "Community development, female status, child, youth and elderly policy". Royal Decree 3069/1980 of 28 September on the transfer of functions and services from the State to the Basque Autonomous Community states that the Basque Autonomous Community assumes all the powers which to date were vested in the Directorate-General for Youth and Social and Cultural Promotion. From a regulatory point of view, there is a compendium of standards and reference documents on youth in the Basque Autonomous Community which already contain a history and accumulated experience, which was undoubtedly essential for the presentation. And at the end of this paper, published in the newsletter on July 29, 2016, just eight months ago, the first recommendation was to draw up the Basque Youth Law, and I quote what it said: "The Basque Government is urged to draw up the Basque Youth Law jointly among the different government departments that develop or should develop policies that affect this group." However, nothing has been done to fulfil Parliament's mandate. And that's why from Elkarrekin We can insist: we believe that it is vital for the young collective to draw up a Basque youth law; a law that can ensure their rights and that takes into account the recommendations drawn from the presentation made in recent years. Moreover, in line with what Mr Redondo said, the employment situation of young people – or sometimes I do not know whether to say the non-employment situation of young people – is marked by the high precariousness, the lower rate of activity and the higher rate of unemployment, together with a disconnect between the training acquired and the qualification of the jobs they perform. And that is why we believe it is appropriate – as the collectives and also Mr Redondo themselves do – to guarantee access to decent and quality jobs for young people. And, thus, it seemed to us that we should emphasize and pay attention to the following topics contained in the recommendations of the presentation, either directly or indirectly. The first is support for young people who sign up for a project linked to the rural environment. The second is support for youth self-employment and co-operativeism. And the third, but not least important, is to support the promotion of contracts that make working hours and study compatible, in order to guarantee the latter. But we must not forget that the precariousness of youth and their lack of opportunities goes beyond employment: the lack of opportunities for youth in healthy leisure, the lack of a vision of juvenile justice as something that goes beyond crime, the investment in youth programmes that go beyond txartela gaste. Finally, that being young is to have a complexity of multidimensional factors, which not only do not favor, but hinder our ability to develop full lives at the time we and we choose. We believe that this has to change, and that it must start by regulating some issues with a long look and a short step. Let us approach the law of youth by taking advantage of what has been achieved so far, the existing instruments. Let us approach the youth law and establish a powerful framework, a framework that allows us to give our young people a future for which it is worth fighting, a future in which it is worth staying, and which focuses on employment, but is also able to regulate and look beyond it. Because we cannot forget that, after all, a people that does not protect its young people is a people without a future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u5	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Houseowner, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u6	Thank you, and good morning to all. 'Essalka is a specific collective who sits in the crowd, and, like the company of euskals, this collective is also numerous and extensive. We are speaking of a Colective, because we are not speaking of the youths who are placed in particular areas or areas. What young people make up is not only a collective community whose field problems and experiences are specific, but a sector of the political, social and economic life of the Basque Country. The young men are obliged to face the reality of different spikes. And this often, in many cases, leads them to deal with more than one problem: the capacity for education, employment, home, company, family relations, sexuality, transport, the ability to decide, leisure, sport. We are, after all, speaking of the rights and resolutions which may be able to develop and live for independent lives. That's why it's supposed to be integral work, and that's why we thought it important from the Basque Country to include this umbrella in the other part of the way as described by Podemos, the idea of the integral of the law. So we'd like to thank them for the labor we've made for the middle course, and the general view of the youth, the general umbrella, for the common care we've got to place in one. We're talking about giving birth, yes, to develop independent life. The young people are therefore, not only in indirect fashion, but in a particular manner, a sphere to be cultivated, to support and support the prospect of young men, who are likely to succeed in political and social change. In this sense, we place a fair wager, in order to propose and execute the present of the young EAEs, and future policies which will guarantee the future, their participation, their opinion, which will be indispensable to their work, and therefore the performance of the party is answerable. And therefore the law addressed to the young is one of the points we propose to create together with the young. In order to make use of all the powers which exceed the prerogative of the youths, and to develop the freer and the more frequent consolidations of the present and future society, we must hear their voices, and we must establish the law of youth. As a guarantee to the employment and employment of young men, we think it necessary to a young man to draw them out of the Praetate, and to have worthy conditions of life, to encourage them to work, to advise them, to direct the offer of formation, to the aid of the members of the community, to the aid of the community, to acquire the opportunity of acquiring the apartment, by articulately evangelical intervention, to open the opportunity for the introduction of the part, to the opening of the occasion, among others. The composition of this law ought to have the principle with a large diagnosis of the youth of Euscala, which is the consequence of his former legislation. We shall therefore proceed to the part of the trial, in order to seek the participation of the different young authors of Euskal Autonomy in Erria, and to encourage the direct explanation of the Council of the Young Basque Council. We can't deny, therefore, that it is important to start the "Plegist Party" and the Eplegu Plan in which PSE presents it, and we hope that the Government itself will work in this way, and we understand the reason of the amendment introduced, and that we have confessed it to you; but, as has been remarked, we were obliged to arrive at an integrated view of this general umbrella, the prevaricant, the prejury of life, because we believe that they don't solve with a job, because we often meet with employments deep in preparation, not? And we believe there are many factors and fields to be considered in the way of these independent lives, which we have just mentioned. So that's why we're glad to take the middle-way today, and since we're sure that we're going to take the steps together, we'll stay with it tonight, and thank you all for the effort we've made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u8	Thank you, ma'am. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all of you. Euskadi still has a higher unemployment rate than the European average. One in three young people under the age of 30 has no work experience. One in ten young Basques have already had work experience abroad. One in ten employed young people is multi-employee. Temporality in youth employment far exceeds the European average. Only 6.1% of young Basques with jobs work on their own. There has been a marked increase in part-time work among women. Most part-time workers do so for involuntary reasons. Only half of the young women and young people in employment claim to have a job related to their training. The average salary of Basque youth is 1,000 euros. One third of the employed youth under the age of 30 perceives the risk of loss or precariousness of their employment. More than one third of young people want to change jobs (three out of ten are looking for a new job). It increases the percentage of those who have been unemployed for more than a year among unemployed young people. Only one in ten unemployed young people are considering self-employment. More than half of young people are willing to change or lower their job expectations. Half of the youth would go abroad if they offered him an interesting job. This is the reality, this is the analysis. There are no vaguenesses here, there are concretions here. This is the crude reality of young eupscals, the conditions of employment which young Basques possess. This is their everyday, this is the panoama which they find in front of their future. These are the situations which we must settle from each other's position. Not a small challenge. It's not something to leave long-term. The raw reality, as I said, is this; it is the one that diagnoses, through this X-ray, what is the current situation of youth employment in Euskadi, what are its current conditions and what prospects for the future they have. We cannot be in any way conformist to any positive data that is seen, having a percentage of unemployment so much higher than that of the European average. We must work tirelessly to ensure employment stability, which today is little less than a chimera for more than half of young people with jobs. We need to make a strong commitment to entrepreneurship among young people, implementing effective measures to encourage the implementation of new projects that promote self-employment and enable the implementation of training acquired through new companies that also innovate and renew the productive market. We can't lose a second. We must focus on combating inequality in employment between men and women from all points of view, but especially by putting an end to temporaryity, reducing part-time work, improving working conditions and also wages. We cannot allow the gap to continue to grow, that inequality is part of the labour landscape. We will not have a decent society until we have a society on equal footing in all respects; also, of course, in this one. We must therefore strengthen the implementation of dual training programmes, and we must do so with a dual objective: on the one hand, to adapt training to the offer of employment, and to provide young people with an immediate exit from work at the end of their training, thus preventing our young people from ending up in jobs which have nothing to do with the training they have acquired. Work inspections should be strengthened, with particular emphasis on monitoring the type and conditions of contract, avoiding chronification in the status of fellows and fellows, while ensuring decent working conditions and pay according to their duties. We cannot establish mileurism as an economic means of life. Neither conformism, nor resignation, nor much less submission among young people, should be included in this issue. They, more than anyone else, must be, in addition to a critical mass in this society, a fundamental element, the protagonist of an alliance that allows us to go hand in hand. That is why we bet on the dialogue and joint work with the associations and representatives of our youth in the development and implementation of the youth employment plan that we propose in the first point of our amendment to the whole, and which is also incorporated in the government program between the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party. The Socialists are firmly convinced that this specific employment plan for young people must be promoted as soon as possible, and we are going to do so in accordance with their needs and as it should be faced with that X-ray which I explained at the beginning of my speech. An employment plan that implements dual training programmes, with a clear commitment to recruitment; implements a system of scholarships for the transition from education to work; implements youth return programmes and retains young talent; facilitates and fosters entrepreneurial culture. In short, an employment plan that addresses all possible alternatives and is effective in implementing measures that address the labour market deficiencies with regard to our young people. And we understand that this should be done as soon as possible, without delay. And we cannot be confused at this point: we cannot trust all this to a law of youth whose processing has not even begun and which, without a doubt, will take us a while, which is precisely not the best ally to give answer to all these problems and all these needs that Basque youth have to face a future that is every day blacker on a general level. Nor should we be so unwise to think that a youth law will be able to ensure that its problems, in this case the specific problems of Basque youth in terms of employment, will be able to be channelled or will be able to be solved by the mere fact that we are going to pass a youth law. It is not going to be the law of youth, the mantra or the only and absolute solution to these problems, if we do not put in place plans, actions that implement, give realism and effectiveness to the purposes of this legality, which, as I repeat, does not exist at the moment. That, by the way, was the argument that some were arguing when we, the Basque Socialists, put on the table the need to pass a youth law. And we didn't do it alone and exclusively during the last legislature, but we did it when we held government responsibility in Patxi López's government. And you, you and you, and you, too, refused. Today the Basque Socialists are going to abstain. And we are going to do so precisely for this reason, because we understand that the implementation of a youth employment plan requires an urgency that is not possible through the processing of a youth law, which, in passing, we have always – and not like others – defended. We defended it yesterday, we defended it today, and we will continue to defend it in the future. If it had been for us, ladies and gentlemen, more than seven years ago that the young Basques had had a law that guaranteed their rights. And if they do not have it today, it is not precisely because of us, but because of those who at various times, up to three times, refused to do so. So, once again, welcome. Welcome to this reality. Of course, if a youth law is to be drafted, the Basque socialists will have some collaborators, because we believe in it. And it's about time, once and for all, you fell off the guindo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u9	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Guuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u10	Thank you, ma'am. The Chief Department, the congressman, good day. Today we are allowed to talk about youth and employment, and I dare say that we all think the same of the situation of youth. We young men are the present of Euskadi, the leading man of the social and economic development of our country, and consequently one of the principal values of our people. We've always had people in the Jeltzai Party, in the centre of all politics, and likewise the young on the axis of youth-politics. We always hear that the young people are the future of this town, and you yourself, Monsieur Jule, you said so too, but I'd say we're now and we know that we're supposed to be able to give us opportunities of making active policies, working on the way to the young people's separation, the housing, the formation, the job... Getting in there. And in the course of this production, we will develop the future, but from now on. I do not think, too, that we young men make a special collective sum; I do not think we need more protection than other masses of men; But it's true that at the time of the economic crisis we must admit that this leap from our studies to the work world is a step behind us, and that we need institutions. We grew up together with the news. We grew up with new technology, and so it would be as essential to young men to extract all our juice from this side, and our team thinks that this is what society ought to take advantage of, producing profit from young people's activities. And that's the way it's going to be, it's pretty obvious to my engagement to young people. Krisi garaian bizi dugun impleguaren the ez zaigu reality inori guatzen. Egia da Espainiako Gobernuak ezarritak lan-erreforma... that the adoption of a totally unilateral labour reform, adopted by a decree law, without taking into account social actors or initiating dialogues with the rest of the political parties, has not improved the employment situation, and we could say that it has even worsened it. We would like labour law to be amended to recognise the possibility of an own labour framework in Euskadi, and the transfer of competences which we continue to call for to be carried out and which, as we point out, is still pending since the Statute of Gernika. As a result, the work of our Eucommy is to promote an active policy for making a job of quality. This was one of the most important instruments of resisting the difficulties which young men have in the work-world during the preceding law. By the 2014-2016 World Plan, public enterprises are urged to stabilize the jobs which are in Basques, and to create new jobs in business. Among the designs of this employment- plan, it is remarkable that the greatest part of the business and the most excluded, in this case the younger, to assist the working world, and in this program they were invested with 24 million dollars. And even in this present legislation, this is the position of our government: to promote active policies to a job. The President, both in elections and even now, repeats his commitment to this legislation. Idle rate from 10% to promote active youthful policies. Because of that, 2017-20 Emplegu Plan will have the leading leading hero, who challenges to maintain the first experience of 20,000 young men. It is clear, too, that youth demands it, and these are the principal objects of our youth; On the one hand, to improve the chances of becoming young, and, on the other, to improve the conditions of labour which we young men have, and to lessen the prerogative we suffer. The year before, the Council of the Basque Young Council introduced here a document of cooking for young people's employment plans, and showed that it was necessary for the co-ordination of the young couples when they started a job plan, a plan addressed to the young people in the field of youth and their ability to procure employment was reduced to the exercise of young people. And we have heard this responsibility, and not only that, but the government has also taken measures. Enplegu, social politics and young people, that's one of the departments we've got today on the Basque Day. And that wasn't a coincidence. This is the first step of the engagement of the Government with young men, employments, and society-politics, to the young. And that was the first step, but it wasn't the only step. This government has spent its first 100 days, and we're on our way. The government is moving on with the commitments I've made. They are in the Department of Police and Employments, and especially with the active policies of young men. We ought to give a real value to that constant effort. Even in the project of the former, a number of games have been introduced to promote young people's jobs, and besides, new business policies and new programmes will be invested with 5 million dollars, which will raise the budget pretty slightly. And not only this, but there is a great deal of Covenant, as Professions with University and Novia Salcdo Foundation, to aid young men in the work-world during the last year of the university. And thanks to the work we've done, we're on our way. The percentage of young men working a year has gone up, compared to data of 2013, and the percentage of the unemployed has collapsed: We've reached 15% of 18,1%, now we've got a better situation than 2011, and the tendency is a double-slow. However, we clearly can't settle with the facts we've got today, or even less, but we must confess that we're going to the better, that the work we've done gives its fruits, and the measures taken have not been bad. And that makes them strong to move forward. Even in the year 2015, permanent contracts have increased, compared to the details of 2013, and our present situation is similar to that of 2004, which is similar to the period of crisis. And I repeat, we cannot content ourselves with these facts. We don't believe we're in an oasis in this case, and we believe the government's commitment to this matter is clear. It is true that these young men are the principal object of employment, but they also affect us in several ways; health, education, leisure, and many others. And for that, this year IV. The young man's plan will come out. And that's where the needs of young people want to be fixed and satisfied. So, on our team, we don't think that the government can compromise their commitment to these young people. We have a person on our side. We place it in the centre of all politics, and thus we believe that both our governments and our groups are always going on, without leaving any one behind us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Hugueg. It's your call, Mr Ruiz de Abulo.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. Mr Bollain, when you brought us this initiative I had just landed in the House and I found it and it was assigned to me. I recognize that I took a certain surprise and wished very little life for the initiative, because I understood that what I was asking of us was on the electoral agenda of all the groups in the House. And after hearing the lehendakari, who set his objectives precisely for the whole legislature, the main one in employment policies, it turned out that it included employment directed towards young people. It is true that the panorama, as you describe in your explanatory statement, is demolishing. It's demolishing. Much is improving, as the spokesman for the Basque Nationalist Party has said, at the moment things are better than they were in 2011, we have evolved very positively in this unemployment rate. Although as young people we can understand between the ages of fourteen and thirty, the rate of those between the ages of eighteen and twenty-five is often used when measuring youth unemployment, and this rate is evolving positively. Of course, the starting point was absolutely devastating: in 2011 48 % of the Spanish young people who wanted to get a job did not find it (48, one in two); with the starters of the crisis, in 2012 it rose by more than half, up to 55 %, and has now fallen in the state average by twelve points. If there were 900,000 young people at that time, in 2011, who wanted to work and could not, 367,000 of those at that age (logically, they are not the same because they have been six years and have already come out of that age frame), 367,000 of those young people have found employment, thanks, I understand, to the measures that have been carried out from different institutions; fundamentally, however much they do not like and have been criticized at this time in this rostrum, partly thanks to labour reform. One in three, or more than one in three of those unemployed, now have a job. Employment that will have to be improved over time, in terms of conditions and especially with regard to the timing of such contracts, but the situation is improving. In Euskadi the starting point was much better. If in 2011 there were 48% unemployment rate, here it was only 37. Horrible, but he was underage. And it is improving, although it is true that already in the unemployment rate the marginal is increasing with respect to the State. Things are evolving differently: we have a better situation, but the movement is much slower, as has already been discussed for many reasons and on other occasions from this rostrum. Indeed, what you proposed to us was to improve contracts, improve dual training, improve aid for self-employment... These are issues that, I insist, were in all the political programmes, and that is why I wished him very little. Because – you presented the initiative in December – the appearances of all the councillors arrived, after we had already marked the lines of government the lehendakari, and the legislative calendar, and we thought that this would be very clear and very reflected in those proposals of government. And it doesn't seem to be that much. I am not going to say, much less, that the government does not worry about employment. I remain convinced that this is your top priority right now. And that youth policies are very cross-cutting; that is, that is, we cannot point to the youth department of the counselor exclusively, because it is that this goes from training, from housing, from the Department of Culture, from the Employment department itself, logically..., from many places. And of course from Industry, with support for entrepreneurship. But we understood that it was insufficient. Already the EH Bildu group pointed out in its motion that what had to be done was to resume the work that had been done in the youth presentation of the last legislature, and to urge the Government to bring us a bill. Oh, surprise, when at the end of February we are presented with your legislative calendar and that bill is not on the table. It is true that, if we are talking about a high unemployment rate, a youth bill is not the immediate solution. It's a long-term solution. That is why, when I saw the amendment tabled by the groups supporting the Government, both the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, the employment plan is a more immediate and effective instrument in the short term. But that does not mean that we do not have to leave an already well-founded legislative framework for the future, to play a part in future youth employment plans and other policies that youth are demanding and needing. Eleven of the 17 autonomous communities have already adopted a bill. It is our competence, we are allowed by the Statute and the Constitution, and we therefore need to develop it. We have been a long time, and there have been attempts, indeed, to bring in a bill. Mr Andueza says that it is the fault of all the groups in the House, who brought him down. I disagree. I disagree, because, of course, when all groups come up with a bill that brings the Government to the House it may not be the fault of the groups, it may be the fault of the bill, which has not liked any group, which has not been consensual with any group, which has not liked the collectives representing that youth, and that is why that bill does not go forward. It is as if, in compliance with the legislative timetable, they bring us back a new status of the Basque public employee without consensus with any political group and without consensus with the trade union forces representing all workers in the public sector. Would it be the House's fault to put him down? Man, no. The project is also bad, and that is why the regulation provides for such a procedure to reverse a bill. From your amendment I have drawn much attention to the government's call to make plans, to comply, to do dual training, to which we also have to help entrepreneurship... If you support the Government, do you not trust the policies that are already in place? In other words, the strategic plans of the Government are already presented and are being implemented at the moment, the budgets are on the table, we are all working on those budgets. Do we have to once again urge the government to do something that is supposed to be done and is underway? Well, I don't think that's enough. We trust that in these budgets, which, among other groups, we will be working together to improve, we will have to increase allocations for dual training, for entrepreneurship, for the support of the self-employment of these young people... Let us not forget that a fundamental exit for young people, for under thirty, is the creation of their own job and the creation of their own company, which is ultimately the model that has worked in this country for many years, and self-employed and small businesses are the engine of our economy and we must not put them aside, and therefore from the budgets of the community must be supported. That is why we are going to bet on the amendment to the agreement, an amendment that has come between Podemos and Bildu, which we have written down, and that we agree with it to urge the government to effectively comply with the demands of that long paper, which lasted three years, on the initiative of the Socialist Party, and which ended in June 2016, with forty recommendations. But the first and the fundamental, that a law of youth be made. I insist, it is not the best instrument at this time for short policies, for a short space of time, and to see measures. That is why we already have the budgets, and we will try to improve them, and we will try to reach out at all times to the Government to collaborate in those policies that will get our young people out of unemployment. To whom they say that it is the best-formed youth in history, but that it has no chance of proving it. That is why I do not want to say that the alternative that we have been asked by the groups that support the Government is bad, but we believe that in that appeal to the Government, one of two, or we are going to the film "Some good men", why we have to repeat the same thing fifty times (what is it?, why won't the Government listen to us?), or we sincerely trust the Government. We will trust that the Government will implement all these plans, and that they will be better focused on all aspects of youth employment. But on the other hand, we are going to support the fact that within an acceptable time frame, which may be by this year 2017, we are being presented with a full bill. A bill that affects not only youth employment, but each and every one of the petitions that were already taken up in that paper adopted in June 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Passing on the answers, together, Podemos, Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. Mr Andueza, following the diagnosis you made at the beginning of your speech, I cannot understand the abstention of your parliamentary group. On the one hand, I would like to comment on that, which is quite incomprehensible to me that the Socialist Party of Euskadi has negotiated that..., has reached that amendment with its governing partners. I think this partly shows a little bit to what extent you have your hands tied. Because it was you who in 2013, as has already been said, presented the non-law proposal in relation to the Basque youth law, arguing – and I quote textually – that "a youth law would be the operational framework in which to articulate the comprehensive policies aimed at young people within the framework of the competence of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country". And, frankly, I regret your abstention today to the creation of this Basque youth law, because I cannot agree more with you in what you were saying there for 2013, and that is why I would like you to reconsider and vote in favour of what just four years ago you yourselves were demanding. Because I remind you that the amendment you have signed by the Basque Nationalist Party is radically contrary to what you said when you said that from a regulatory point of view the Basque Autonomous Community has a compendium of youth standards and reference documents that is essential to make use of, but still insufficient to guarantee a comprehensive youth policy. That was what you said four years ago, you say it today as well, but what's going on? That what was insufficient in 2013 today is more than enough? I don't know. And, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, well, in my little experience in politics, I believe that in politics the most important thing to work for citizenship (in this case for youth) is to have high-mindedness, high-mindedness and flexibility to listen to what the other parties demand, and, of course, above all, to know how to recognize our mistakes. And that is why we thought it appropriate, in order to arrive at a good port, to be flexible and to bring in this compromise amendment what has been asked of us from all areas, with a negotiation the truth quite easy, because with good will everything is possible. And I would like to thank the groups that have worked for this compromise amendment to be as complete as possible. I believe, Mrs Gurutxaga, that youth plans are not and should never be in conflict with a comprehensive Basque youth law, because, after all, what you are doing with your amendment, which you have done with the Basque Socialist Party, is to take the paper and cut it in its own way. Come on, let's take the whole lecture, but we take the first point, which is the most important one. We remove the first point from your recommendations, since we are not interested, are we? I believe that we must try to be consistent with what is proposed, and if we want to take as a reference the presentation made we cannot avoid point number 1, which you intend to jump to the bullfighter. Point number 1, which begins with "The Basque Government is urged to draw up the Basque Youth Law". And so, once again, I am extremely glad that this negotiated amendment will go ahead. Because, as I said earlier, I have not said that youth is only the future, but I have said that a people that does not protect their youth is a people without a future. And so did Roberto Chafar himself, in a phrase that I like very much. He said that we should see youth not as empty bottles to be filled, but as candles to be lit. And that's why I think we need to look after and protect those candles so that we don't turn to a black future, but to a radiant one that shines in itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u15	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Mrs. Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u16	Yeah. Thank you, everyone. Considering the contribution and eloquence of all of us, I think we may all agree with an idea that we may all agree, and that we are in the first place of this subject, in that preference which young people have for the first instance. It is true, though perhaps we have not agreed in forms or forms, I think they are both alternate, as has been well observed. The idea of this employment is already involved in the government; and we shall certainly do as you say, because it is important, and we see it in a short or in an immediate manner. This, we repeat, in this next step for us, that a more integral law, as well expressed, would take up a number of other accounts, or take up so many other matters, that we thought it necessary to have recourse to the several aspects of the prerogative of youth. So they're going to have to go two ways by the hand, aren't they? And, therefore, we carefully but positively appreciate that plan which will come, and we hope that it will be determined by exact and concrete and effective measures, we doubt and we will work for it, but in a short time or so, even in the way, we think that a legal proposition, which we placed for the end of 2017, will certainly give him that larger umbrella? And let me make a small contribution at the end. I'm glad we boys have had a part in it, too, and a discussion about it. Mr. and Mr. Ruiz de Arbulo will forgive me for joining the group of so young, but I believe that these conversations between Bolilla and Guurga are very necessary, and it is clear that we will need the intervention of so many others, but that it is really to be delighted-And well, every one of us will grow up that little bag that we may have, and all this way; so I stay with it, and thank you for everything that comes from now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u18	I'm worried I might be getting old in a bad way. I wouldn't, hey! Mr. Bollain, don't have so much face, let me tell you not to have so much face. Do not come now to claim a youth law that you have not even agreed on your initiative. Not even on his own initiative. You came to talk about youth employment, and you've ended up talking about what others have been claiming for over seven years. So don't come here as a youth law adalid, when others have been claiming it for almost a decade. Don't look so much! All right, it's fine that you finally came here to recognize the work that others have been doing for many years. It's perfect. In any case, I hope that you will not be so unwise to think that through that youth law in a short period of time the employment problem of Basque youth will be solved, because, among other things, that processing can take us, more or less, two years. And I recognize you that you may be unwise about the deadlines that are being handled, because you are new arrivals, but that others trust you that the youth law will be processed and approved within a short period of time, having the knowledge that you have, seems to me to be little less than a frivolity and an act of hypocrisy. I'm still with you, Mr. Bollain. You don't even mention an employment plan in your transaction. So what should the Government do? Should you focus solely and exclusively on passing a youth law, leaving aside something that you supposedly defended in your original initiative? We can do it, calmly, but most likely the young Basques will not see their problems solved if we trust that we have a youth law, you will know whether in two years' time, considering that you would have to agree, among others, perhaps with those who are now your partners on this issue, the People's Party. You said we had our hands tied. We don't have our hands tied. What we have is a sense of loyalty that you probably don't have. And I repeat to you again, we had in our electoral programme the drafting of a youth law, that we will not have any kind of complex in defending or working when that comes to this Parliament, but we are loyal to the government, because when we negotiate there are things that should be left behind. And we will be loyal to the government, just as we will be loyal to our principles when that youth law comes to this Parliament. But, man, let you tell me that we have our hands tied, when you, I repeat and repeat, had not even mentioned the law of youth, and you have been shammed by Bildu, who was the one who really asked for it... Anyway, look in the mirror before you talk about what happens to others. Look in the mirror! Look in the mirror! I would also ask the lords of Bildu to look in the mirror, because, in the end, when they want they are all one, and when they want they are four parties. And I remind you that seven years ago EA and Aralar voted against when the Socialist Party brought a youth bill here. What's the matter, that the conditions of the young Basques have changed so much in seven years, or in three years? Because three years ago you also refused, when the Basque Socialists brought to this House the request or the impulse to a youth law! You voted against, don't tell me no, it's in the session logs! Don't tell me no! Don't be obsessive! What's the matter, that the conditions have changed so much in seven years? We recognize that a youth law is not the most effective tool to deal with the problems that the Lords of Podemos have not put on the table today. By not putting, they have not made a serious diagnosis with data, tangible and objective, of what is the situation itself. We did it, Mr. Bollain. But, anyway, things happen. Mr Arbulo, it is curious that you are going to confuse, through labour reform, the fact that we have more jobs with which we have better jobs. There may be more employment, but there is more precariousness, there is more temporaryity. Don't tell me no, Mrs. López de Ocariz. And I'm finishing up, Madam President. If you are so concerned about this issue, you could have worked on it a little bit and put forward an amendment through which you could have made your contributions, but, as always, you prefer to remain in lethargy, to come here later to the rear turn, to let go of trips without any foundation. And do you know why I'm telling you about "no basis"? Because you have accused us of two things: having brought a bill to this Parliament first without participation, and secondly without consensus. First of all, I will tell you one thing: we brought this bill to this Parliament after having carried out a participatory process. Secondly, not only that, but that draft law was in agreement with you, through Mrs Mari Mar Blanco, with an approved opinion which was brought to this House and which you voted against at the last minute. To your shame. You voted against it. Therefore, when you make accusations, please make them real on the merits, because I thought you were much more serious. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u19	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians, Mrs. Gourga, your word is yours. Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u20	Thank you, ma'am. Well, as I have done, the chance of speaking as a young man to-day, and most of them being young, I would like to put it into value in this debate, and I think that we must enter into society, that we young men have a voice, and that we have much to give to the people. When I refer to Equimena, it is true that I am new in the parliament, but, Mr. Bollain, the initial initiative you presented, said lyblynob or head. I don't think he understood anything. When I first took it, I didn't even know where I was going, and there was no shape. When you read the announcement, it's true that you were concerned about jobs and young people's situations, but when you read the points, I didn't understand exactly where you wanted to influence them. I think that the initiative introduced by the EH Collect has done you a favour, and that's where you found the law and said it, Os oysters, we can go on with this in our enterprise, because ours had no form. "And now, when you speak of the law, your mouth is filled with a law which you did not propose. And I don't understand how it seems so important to you that you haven't put it in value from the beginning, and I don't know why you didn't propose it. And you ask us to be consistent, but if you think of introducing a bill in 2017, I don't know if you're being consistent, but I don't think the deadline will give you. On the other hand, when I read the correction of the EH Collectors, I think that the same thing happened to you, you did not find much form in the original initiative, and you took the law and made plans. That's the difference between us. It is the same foundation that we think otherwise, that we think we ought not only to do with the law; we do not think that the law can repair everything. We think that at this moment, with the situation in which young people live, we have to start active policies and lighter programs, and that we shall see further what to do, but now we can't see what to do, and you take the law as umbrellas. I think we are essentially agreed, and are forms which we do not unite. And then, Jules, you say that we forced the socialists to sign our medium. The question is, perhaps, that you behave like that, and that you think that we all act like you do, but not. We don't have to force anyone to sign. Everyone sees what they sign. And finally, I want to make it clear that we young people will be the future of this country again, if we are still the present, we are building the future, and we have to force ourselves to build our own destiny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Hugueg. Finally, the representative of the American Basque Group, Mr Ruiz de Arboulo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u22	Mr Bollain, in fact, I did not explain myself well in the first round. I was surprised by the initiative, and I told him that I wished him very little travel because he trusted more in what the Government was going to bring us in its legislative calendar. But, as I was surprised, I am indeed glad that it was raised, so that today Parliament can again urge the government to implement this youth law, I insist, parallel to all the plans that are already under way and the new ones that the Executive is drawing up, to which we have the hand to break that drama: one of the three Basques who wanted to work, between eighteen and twenty-five years old, on 31 December 2016, cannot find a job. Not here, not anywhere. That is why I believe that any initiative is indeed good. Short-term employment plans, and a law that already leaves the way, not only for employment, because it is that without employment young people cannot develop their vital activity, they cannot have the options that we all want them to have, precisely, but that is why the first and fundamental thing is to have employment. Dry employment, which will be improveable in time, Mr Andueza. You and I, or your group and our group, have completely different visions of what employment is, what to generate and how to generate it, but I put the numbers on the table: when you stopped ruling in the Basque Country and in Spain, there were 900,000 unemployed between the ages of eighteen and twenty-five, you couldn't work; today, 367,000 of those unemployed are no longer, you have found a job. For you, for what you have told us here, the disaster of labour reform, the disaster of the measures taken by the Government and those jobs are horrific. I see that you would prefer to continue to be 900,000 unemployed, as in other autonomous communities where they have continued to rule since 2011 until now. We prefer that these young people have an option and access to employment. And the measures that have been taken are on the table, and the unemployment data, which are falling month by month, quarter by quarter, are positive. There's a lot of work to be done, but it's being done. Finally, Mrs Etxebarrieta, I do not know why you doubt that I am young! [[Barres]] Frankly, I do not know what you have relied on to leave Mr Andueza and me out of that youth debate, as if we had no interest. You'll explain to me what it was based on. It broke me. [[Barres]] But I will explain to you why I do have an interest in this law. It is that I have two children who have already entered that period to which the paper referred, those young people, those children between fourteen and thirty years old. Then I am one of the first concerned in this House about the future not only of my children, but of all the people of your age. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. End of discussion, we'll vote together with the middle-point correction that Podemos and EH Teams have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 38; the opponents are 0; white is 0; 0; nobstations, 37.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u24	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Third point in theme list: "The same proposal as the Parlamentarian Society of the Euskal Group, on top of which the EukMalk would communicate about socialonomy. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. The representative of the American Basque Group, Mr Barrio, is yours to introduce and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u25	Good morning. Thank you, President. The truth is that we have come to an agreement between the groups supporting the Government and the proposing group, the People's Group, on an issue which is not new in this House, but which is important. And it is that of continuing to establish measures and channels of action, of promotion, of development, of contribution, of analysis, of reflection, in relation to a type of economic and social formulas that are part of the social economy. In this respect, this Parliament wants and intends to continue to frame the situation, and to continue to develop, by promoting the social economy, through, first of all, knowing the government's purposes in relation to the matter, as we have done in previous legislatures. We need to remember the interesting experiences that this Parliament has had in relation to the social economy. In Legislature VIII, apart from the passing of the Small Cooperative Society Act, the Government was also entrusted by Parliament with a communication on the social economy based on agreements reached by the Government and the Supreme Council of Cooperatives (Konfekoop). Well, because we extended it to the whole social economy, and that debate was held in the House, we discussed the social economy, and motions for resolutions were put forward. The same as in the IX parliamentary term: on 30 March 2011, the Working Committee also had a very interesting debate on the social economy, which we also have to say was constructive debates, because the fundamental thing of these debates was the generation of areas of agreement and understanding, and motions for resolutions were adopted unanimously. Well, there were such important issues as, apart from the promotion measures, the creation of an observatory on the social economy, an observatory to which I shall then refer, that every year it establishes a series of reports, a series of analyses, which in this case also serve us, and will of course serve the Government, to make that communication and to know the situation. In the last legislature there was also a communication from the Government. Because I think it's good to order this kind of analysis and plans, programs and communications that unravel the situation a little bit, and there was a communication. In this case there was no debate in committee, but we are at a good time, in this Parliament XI, to resume that communication which served as a reference, to bring it here, to know the situation throughout this year and to debate it, and to be able, as far as possible, to contribute the parliamentary groups, as we have done, to a debate which we can have in the committee itself or in plenary, or where it is deemed appropriate at the time and also as the Government establishes. The communications are normally debated, I say again, possibly in committee, as were the previous debates, but the good thing is that we have it and that we work. That's right, we set the date, 2017 as the date for the elaboration or making of that communication. I mean, we give the government time. Someone might think it's too long... well, we felt good about it. And in the first quarter of 2018 address that debate. The government has to do much more in relation to the social economy (it also has pending the law of cooperatives, reform, will also have pending in its time to appear in Parliament to explain the general lines...), but in any case it is fine. During these years there has also been important news and good news in relation to social economics. In 2011, the Congress of Deputies unanimously adopted a law on social economy that defined the social economy, which spoke of the creation of the Council for the Promotion of the Social Economy in Spain, which also gave duties to the autonomous communities, which allowed the autonomous communities to continue to influence the development, the analysis, and the promotion of the social economy. And some autonomous communities, in fact, have taken the glove, like Galicia, and they did last year... Earlier we have been talking about the making of a law, the law of youth; for some communities – it is not on the government's calendar, we are not going to demand it, we are going to see first the analysis of communication –... communities like Galicia, that go to the forefront of the generation, and especially in this last legislature, of normative production, created, made and passed an important social economy law as well, and that the social economy sector in Galicia thanked it. We what we want... What do we intend with this agreement? Continue to mature, continue to advance in policies for the promotion and development of the social economy. Why? Because the social economy resists better than the economy as a whole at this time of crisis and exit from the crisis. You're much better at it. And in the Basque Country there are the reports of the Basque Observatory of the Social Economy, that recent report in relation to the last four years. It is a report that they presented in December 2016 and that talks about the years 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015, and has demonstrated with data that the social economy resists better, it is a generator of production, innovation, and it is a generator of jobs. I think that is the fundamental element. All of you can analyze, I say again, that report on the social economy, a report on the situation of the Basque social economy, which addresses the last few years, made by the Basque Observatory of the Social Economy in December 2016, which I also advise, to those who do not know it, to read it, because they will realize the economic keys of this country. The social economy is sometimes unknown, or not well understood. And we have to say that cooperatives, anonymous labour societies, insertion centres, special employment centres, mutual societies, co-fraternities of fishermen, associations and foundations with economic activity... well, all that is an economic fabric that is there and that of course we have to continue to enhance and we have to continue to develop. And that was our intention, to reach maximum agreement on this issue, which I believe the groups will accept in some way, because I believe it is important and interesting, as it was – and we value it this way – in the previous legislatures, by requesting this work from the Government and ourselves to use it and serve us, even to discuss it and to contribute. To recall, the last communication came on September 30, 2014. I mean, we've been, over three or four years, talking about these issues. The previous one was in 2011, in the previous legislature, and the previous one was in 2008. And we talked about the object, the development and the analysis in relation to empowerment, also the situation of the social economy, we talked about the background... Because there are many circumstances that, of course, surround the phenomenon of the social economy; not only local circumstances or that there are more cooperatives, or that there is more employment in cooperatives, but circumstances of European Union reports, international reports, or global reports. Unesco has just declared the cooperatives the heritage of humanity. Why? For the role of the person in production, for the role of the person in economic activity. The social economy that is: the role of the person, rather than the purely role of the economic agent. Well, they are important elements surrounding the Toia report at its time in the European Parliament, the steps taken by the Commission and the Council in relation to important declarations promoting the social economy... The social economy has very different expressions in Europe, it is very different the social economy in Euskadi than elsewhere in Europe, and in that sense I think they will analyse it and we will analyse it well. The 2014 communication also referred to Europe, also to all these background issues. The situation was also described in 2014, at a time of exit from the crisis but still of incidence, and it was seen how the social economy was resisting better than the whole economy. In relation to the sectors, there was also talk of forms of social economy, of development, of modalities. Because every day there are more formulas and more modalities that integrate into the role of the social economy and that entangle with the third sector, with the solidarity economy..., well, with economic formulas that, of course, must be boosted and strengthened. And, ultimately, in that communication, encouragement, measures, impulse issues to which the Government committed itself. We'll see about that. We also have a number of parliamentary initiatives in relation to this communication to know what about those issues that were raised in 2014: if they have been achieved, where they have been progressing. But in any case, we are now interested in that new approach, that new situation report, and that debate that I believe will be important. Furthermore, in the run-up to the new cooperative law to be introduced, I believe that we can talk about all these issues and give ideas to the Government. It is clear that satisfaction is to have reached an agreement, and to declare in the compromise amendment that the Basque Parliament is aware of the relevance of the social economy in its various manifestations in our Basque Autonomous Community, and reaffirms its commitment to continue working on its knowledge, development and progress. Indeed, that is a statement which frames the following one, but which is also from the Basque Parliament. Other institutions have much to say about the promotion and development of the social economy. Let us not say anything about the general boards or the deputies, in relation to issues affecting their fiscal and financial situation or the promotion as well. And let us not say also the municipalities, which have to promote that form of economic production, which is the social economy. But, well, in any case, the Government's own communication, and the very analysis of the very motions for resolutions or resolutions that we adopt can also indicate, can urge other institutions of economic impact in relation to the issues that they can do, and that has already happened in the previous discussions of the Government's communications. The second point is that the Basque Government is urged to make before the end of this year a communication that analyses and values the situation of the social economy in the Basque Country, identifies its new needs and challenges, and reports on initiatives, measures and activities to promote, stimulate or disseminate social economy enterprises to increase their role in generating employment and economic growth. Well, here we frame the fundamental analysis of communication, things: knowing how we are, knowing how we have evolved, knowing how our environment is, and knowing and knowing and proposing and seeing what we can do in relation to an economic formula (I say again, the social economy) that has resisted the crisis much better, the shocks of the crisis, than the whole economy in general. That is, that we have a field to work on: that of promotion, that of impulse, diffusion... A field, that of the social economy, which perfectly intersects with what we have spoken before, with the role of youth, in relation to junior cooperatives, in relation to small cooperative societies, which allows the new graduate, the new graduate in the different professional, university or academic formations, to obtain an instrument of work, entrepreneurship, with more ease or with more chances of success than the commercial enterprise or certain corporate formulas that are more anchored in this issue. In other words, in that sense we are on the path we have to develop. It is a formula that works, that connects with needs and that connects with workers, with new employment and with youth. And, finally, we say that the above-mentioned communication will be presented by the Basque Government, analysed and discussed in the Labour and Justice Committee in the first quarter of 2018. It is normal: we will receive the communication at the end of the year, we will study it, and we will discuss it I think in a clear and positive way in 2018, at the beginning of 2018. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u26	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections together, Mrs. Podemos, the Broad One, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u27	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, good morning to all. It is not the first time in this chamber that is treated with the subject of social economy, but today it comes with the proposition, which is different from that of the population. And Mr. Barrio tells us that M. M. So he asks if he can send a communication in the next few months to the Enkonomical Committee. It seems that all the parliamentary groups, with more precision than others, may be supposed to require this communication; but we would like each other from the parlamentary group of Podemos to reflect on what we understand about the social economy. Eusko Jaurlaritzako web hates joanez gero, Lan eta Justizia Sailaren barnean zuzendaritza bat ikusten dugu. Eta zuzendaritza horrez, and in this direction, which deals with the legislative development of cooperative societies, as well as with ensuring respect for the working status of anonymous and limited labour societies, tells us that – and I quote textually – "the consolidation of a competitive and sustainable business sector must be supported by the creation of social economy enterprises, disseminating their values and principles and extending recognition to the entities of the solidarity economy, the entities that develop the special employment centres and the suprasectoral groupings of self-employed workers". This is what the Directorate of Labour and Justice tells us. Beste alde battik, Espaniar Empresarien Konfederaziak economia soziala bideratzeko printzipio batzuk aipatzen ditu. Artean horien print, aipatu nahiko nituzke hiru edo lau hauek. It tells us: "Primacy of people and of the social purpose over capital, which is concrete in an autonomous and transparent, democratic and participatory management, which leads to prioritizing decision-making more in relation to people and their contributions of work and services than in relation to their contributions to social capital". That's one of the principles. Second principle: "Implementation of the results obtained to the activity, for the social purpose the object of the entity". Third principle to be respected: "Promotion of internal solidarity and with society, which promotes commitment to local development, equal opportunities for men and women, social cohesion, inclusion of people at risk of social exclusion, generation of stable and quality employment, reconciliation of personal, family and labour life, and sustainability". And as a fourth principle I also wanted to mention independence from the public authorities. These are the four principles of which the Spanish Business Confederation speaks about the social economy. He also wanted to make a reference to the Charter of the Solidarity Economy, which defines the solidarity economy as "an approach to economic activity that takes people into account, the environment and sustainable and sustainable development as a priority reference over other interests". Therefore, the social and solidarity economy, in its most diverse forms, is a way of life that encompasses the integrality of people and designates the subordination of the economy to its true purpose: to provide in a sustainable way the material bases for the human, personal, social and environmental development of every human being. Perhaps the importance that we give to all these definitions from this parliamentary group marks the essential difference, in our view, in the role that some groups or others believe that the social economy should play, since, although it is very important to create and promote employment, in our view the social economy enterprise is a clear example of how rationality and social progress are compatible, of how business efficiency can coexist with social responsibility, of how another way of doing business is possible. And that is why our group proposes that the communication submitted by the Government be analysed in the Parliamentary Committee on Economic Development. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we firmly believe that our country needs a new business model; companies that implement business policies, models and management tools based on the principles I have just mentioned. A model that makes it possible to take advantage of the human development of all its members, which regulates the participation of workers in both management and capital and in the distribution of results. For us, the social economy is not simply a marginal sector that can serve on a short-term basis to create a few jobs, but it can be an opportunity to help overcome the economic crisis. Horregatik guztiagatik, they're disused by Garapen Ekonomikăuren's hobeto enkajatzen in the department. In its presentation, the Department of Economic Development, in its presentation, tells us, and I quote: "Its mission is to lead areas that directly affect the productive economy of Euskadi and that seek to contribute to overcoming the economic crisis, betting on a new model of competitiveness appropriate to our capabilities, and according to the needs and aspirations of Basque society". In short, the social economy should not be taken simply as a marginal model, but as a humanist model, of a company that promotes employment, yes, but a quality job, and a shared management for a better balance in the distribution of wealth, based – and I will repeat it, because for us it is essential – on an approach to economic activity that takes into account people, the environment and sustainable and sustainable development, as a priority reference above many other interests. This approach brings together industry, innovation, agriculture, fisheries, infrastructure..., i.e. areas that directly affect the productive economy of Euskadi, but also autonomous and transparent, democratic and participatory management. Local development, equal opportunities for men and women, social cohesion, the inclusion of people at risk of social exclusion, the generation of stable and quality employment, the reconciliation of personal, family and work life, and sustainability, as well as the care economy, all respond to the challenge of organizing all productive and reproductive sectors to enable development that combines internal collaboration with a common orientation, capable of generating synergies to create employment and well-being, that is, by optimizing the resources of the planet. That is why we in our group believe that it is essential that this communication on the social economy be forwarded from the Government within a maximum of six months, and that it be debated, as I have just said, in the Committee on Economic Development, and not in the Committee on Labour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Pindo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u29	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. We have a clear idea of the importance of social economy in our country, and of the role which has played and played in the development of our economy. In the past years, during these years of physical crisis, even the companies in social society have lived hard moments, and we must not look very far to find examples. But, although for some, these failures were the pretext of stuning the whole hubula model behind them, it has been evident that the social form has generally opposed the crisis. In point of fact, the crisis itself has also caused different means of social economy, because many workers, for instance, have found a chance to work in co-operats or in employments... In this model that places the work and the person at the center of the economic system, leaving the classic capitalist standard, where the market and the central markets are specially won. The physical crisis which we have lived must also be useful to us, as society already does, in order to place the market for the cohesion and social interest of society. It is time to expose the deficiencies of the system already established, and to attribute to the nature of economic agents. That is to say, let us push on the economic agents, whose function is worthy of dignity and permanent development, and not the others, e.g. radians, as many do. Socialnomy is present in various sectors, and has several workmen. According to the history of the Esquire in Esquilly Society, 6% of the over-estate population in 2014 worked in socialnomy, about 45,000 workers. And this is especially evident in several parts of the EAE, where the rates of equality and distribution of wealth are good. And that's not a coincidence. The proposal that Mr Barrio puts on the table today, we believe, could be a good starting point for this parliamentary term in relation to the social economy. In this legislature, where, as has already been said, the Government plans to bring, for example, the new law on cooperatives, which should serve to meet the new challenges of the sector. We believe that it is important, as was done in previous legislatures, to have a report on the reality of the social economy in our country, but we also believe that this report should have and it is essential that it be prepared together with the agents of the social economy themselves. Because who better than the agents of the social economy themselves to know what their challenges are and what their needs are. This report should go much further than enumerating initiatives and activities to promote the social economy, because it should cover the commitments made by the Government in relation to such promotion and dissemination. Because that's what it's about, getting engaged. To commit ourselves all and all, and especially the Government. Because in the social economy there are many men and women working for a better and more advanced country, a more inclusive country, and not only in the productive sphere, also in the educational or cultural sphere, for example. The social economy is not anecdotal, it is an active agent, and as such it must be dealt with in all areas. Social society is composed of so many active agents in our society, that their wants and their challenges are ours. The knowledge of their reality is essential to the law, the measures to be taken... Make sure they go the right way. And that is why today we are faced with an amendment that was fucked by the groups supporting the Government and the People's Party (that new relationship we have for a few days in force), and the truth, Mr Barrio, when you said in your speech "Our intention was to reach the maximum agreement"..., you did not do that, and you know that you have not done it, and we have talked about it. He didn't, and he had it pretty easy. Because, as Mrs Zabala has said, if all the groups believed that it is necessary to bring a communication in relation to the social economy, with our nuances (because they have put some nuances, we have since had to count on the agents of the social economy, that the government had to write the commitments it was going to make in relation to the social economy...), but the reality is that only the three parties that support... or in this case two parties that support the Government and the People's Party. Because apparently, then, well, that mania that you can't sign with Euskal Herria Bildu, that it's time they start to mature and move forward in politics also beyond the clichés that they so much like to keep... Because it's not our case. We are prepared to talk to all parliamentary groups, but we can talk and we can agree, and this is what has not happened in this non-law proposal. And I think it was a good opportunity to have been able to get an agreement from all the parliamentary groups on something as important, as important in our country's economic fabric, such as the social economy. It's an important issue and it wouldn't have cost anything, but, of course, we're talking... I have said this: in the agreement that you have signed, no trace of having the agents of the social economy. I do not think it is unusual to say that the agents of the social economy are involved, or at least they are taken into account and can be explained, because they are the ones who know their reality. No trace. And no sign of the Basque Government writing, blacking out the commitments it must make and which we believe it must acquire, sector by sector, in relation to the social economy. A great opportunity has therefore been lost for this Parliament to have a joint position, a unanimous position on the social economy. And it has been lost because the parties that support the Government and the People's Party have decided that with their agreement it was enough and that up to there they would read, and that they should therefore not talk to us to make an agreement. Therefore, our vote is going to be abstention.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, yours is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u31	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, on this agenda item we are going to discuss the initiative of the People's Party on the elaboration by the Basque Government of a communication on the social economy. The social economy, the third sector of the economy, located between the public and traditional private sectors, is in full expansion in the last two decades, in the heat of the great social, economic and operational transformations of the public authorities, although not without difficulties. The fabric of Euskadi's social economy is a reference at European and international level. We must stress the great value that has been given since its inception, within the Basque Parliament, to the social economy, which, as it cannot be otherwise, must continue to enhance it now and in the future. The social economy represents a very important step in the participation and democratization of the enterprise, since the dual status of worker and entrepreneur facilitates the vision of the enterprise as a unit of wealth generation that satisfies all those participating in it. The Basque Government is committed to the social economy, bearing in mind that today cooperatives, labour societies and other entities with a social vocation, such as special employment centres, insertion companies, foundations, associations of public interest, which promote the general interest in civic, educational, scientific, cultural, sports and health areas. As well as a number of other bodies, as the Councillor for Labour and Justice pointed out on 31 January in her appearance to present the legislative plan to the Committee on Labour and Justice. The social economy is mainly active in manufacturing, trade and education. In Euskadi there are 1,517 cooperatives and 846 labour companies, which generate 54,500 jobs, accounting for 6.12% of the total employment of the Basque Autonomous Community. And in times of crisis the impulse of the social economy becomes more relevant, trying to generate quality employment. But we have to keep moving forward, to take measures that are in line with regulatory regulations; among them, one of the existing needs, which is a pending subject of the previous legislature, is the drafting of the law on cooperatives. The Minister of Labour and Justice has already announced to us that it is the department's intention to initiate a participatory tour for the elaboration of the preliminary draft law on cooperatives, whose text is expected to be completed by the end of 2017, for its submission to Parliament in the first half of 2018. Mrs Pinedo, that intention has already been expressed by the Commissioner for Labour and Justice herself. In addition, it highlighted the need to link with local development territorial policies, with the effective presence of the social economy in cross-cutting entrepreneurship policies, as well as the need to promote the expansion of the corporate base and of all types of inter-cooperation, facilitating tools for corporate and corporate management to existing companies and strengthening associations. We must continue to take steps in this direction, given that the social economy is associated with the idea of progress and redistribution of wealth, and that it plays a key role at the local level. The government agreement between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party points out the importance of promoting the creation of new social economy enterprises and the consolidation of the existing fabric in all economic sectors, supporting the formation of consortia and cooperation networks, to strengthen the capacity for action, as well as the need to act cross-cuttingly from the Government to support the sector in terms of innovation, quality, technological transparency and the implementation of information technologies. Also the need to disseminate the training and information of the social economy at all levels and educational areas. The Minister of Labour and Justice has already pointed out that among her objectives is to support the department's relationship with the sector's representative organizations, and I believe that this is important. That is why we have signed this compromise amendment between the Basque Nationalist Party, ourselves, Basque Socialists, and the Basque People's Group, which states that the Basque Parliament, aware of the relevance of the social economy in its various manifestations in our Basque Autonomous Community, reaffirms its commitment to continue working on its knowledge, development and progress. And that is why it urges the Basque Government to make a communication before the end of this year that analyses and values the situation of the social economy in Euskadi and identifies its new needs and challenges, and reports on initiatives, measures and activities to promote, boost, disseminate..., so that social economy enterprises can increase their role in generating employment and economic growth. This communication will be presented by the Basque Government, and analysed and discussed in the Labour and Justice Committee – says this compromise amendment – in the first quarter of 2018. We fully agree that this communication, another communication at the beginning of this parliamentary term, would be desirable at the moment, because in the last two years there have been new regulatory needs which must be taken into account and taken into account as a reference to the forthcoming reforms and regulations, and the new role of the partner and worker of the social economy companies, which make it necessary to carry out the communication. I believe that this compromise amendment was not far from the full amendments tabled by the EH Bildu Group and the Elkarrekin Podemos Group, by Mrs Pinedo and Mrs Zabala. Of course, the initiative was not of the Socialist Group, it was of the People's Group, and it was up to them, as a group that presented it, to seek consensus with more parliamentary groups. I believe that the differences were very small, and a broader consensus could have been sought within an initiative that I believe is of great importance in the social economy. It has not been possible to do so, but I invite you – because the differences are very few – to vote in favour of the compromise amendment, both for the Elkarrekin Podemos group and for the EH Bildu group. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u32	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians represent the group, Sire Faraway, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u33	Ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen of the department, members of the legislature, all good days. I am sure, as to today, that we all agree with the influence of the social economy in our country, and its influence upon our country, I should venture to say, Karol, which constitutes one of the main axiss of our economy. Every year, every time he's had a chance, our team mentioned his vision of socialnomy, but now that we're discussing social communications, we'd like to communicate our point of view, we'd like to communicate it to you again. The cooperatives and the labor society are the leading of social society. They are a different type of enterprise, with more members, and more democratic in management and control. Besides, it is another example of building a society which has a more social constitution. In these companies, he really is the leading person. The materials, like capital resources, are tools that are designed to serve people. Thus, for the Jeltzaan Party, the integral development of these classes of socialonomy institutions is especially important. First, we would like to mention a special attention to this phenomenon, which is not at all a stranger to our country, but is very rooted among us. For this reason, I would like to praise the co-operatives, the manufactures, and, in general, the great effort, the great sacrifice, which the social corporations are engaged in, in a difficult financial situation, in order to maintain their labours and employments, and to form a reference to the consideration of their conduct for the rest. In like manner I would show the will to promote the development of the co-operative or social economy of Eestal, as well as of the rest of the expression. As far as our frame of right enables us, by a worthy employment and local development, and by a distinct economic model, to possess the responsibility of persons, by means of the production of more flexible nerves, designed for the duration of time, and to explain their capacity in the ill circumstances of economic cycles. In the same way, we reveal our commitment, according to a practice which follows at least the age of 1935, with the defence of the social responsibility of the workers' intervention. On the other hand, we have the full confidence of the words spoken in January 31st, in the great activity of Madame Saint José's department. "So, Madame d'Etangulations will encourage the production and development of new social corporations in every economic sector, protecting the formation of more common and more operations, in order to strengthen their capacity for activity." Nevertheless, though the proposition we make in our hands to-day is very formal, it seems interesting to us, and if I am not mistaken, as we have done in the same manner as in other legislationes, we shall have an imperfect attitude of this enterprise, and therefore the motion of the medium we have signed, confirms the knowledge of this kind of economy in its progress and development, and, on the other hand, let him present to us a communication in the months when they come to ask us to dinner, examine and appreciate the circumstances, and to show them the measures of the establishment. So I'd like to take advantage of today's intervention for confirmation of our commitment to social society, by giving you a full confession. And I should like to bring in the thought of the On Jose Maria Ariacyt, which I read long ago, by sharing what he said of the Costeraibism, and by spreading it into the whole social form: "Cooperativism is, as we may say, not a purpose, but a resource. It's an institution, an appropriate instrument in economic and social life, which no one can honestly and sincerely discuss, so that some ideals with the consent of most people may be realized." When we speak of socialonomy, we can't leave the collective work, the intervention, the social responsibility, and the bearing of justice. But I would rather, at this moment, determine a little more, with the rights of these values, which carry all these values, and also to accept all obligation, and to take care of their responsibilities, to make up their decisions in every case, and above all, to show the figure of all the persons who are ready to look face to the consequences of their actions. I would like to remark here that the different ways which we call socially, because the economy humanizes, humanizes, helps us, and helps us further than men and their works form, and wait for results, are the instruments which help society to advance. For this reason, when we complain that these values are disappearing from our society, we ourselves ought to endeavour to make use of them, or to give them their direction. Therefore our aim is to encourage and protect and protect all the persons who have the means of social society, who promote and acquire their responsibilities. For this purpose we are engaged to protect and encourage every action that can contribute to the acquisition of the object, and therefore we have agreed with the proposal to-day. We're sure that these types of institutions coincide with the traditional values of the social and economic culture of our country. In our country there has been produced and developed an experience which is known and acknowledged among the nations, founded on self-help, democracy and generosity, applied to the economy and society, which contributes to more and better Euskade, economicly and socially. If we add to this, not only to the traditional value of social culture and economy, but also to the agreements which come from the different social culture and ideological traditions and sociological traditions of our country, however formal, we may be dealing with the popular tradition. From Christian humanism, from the work of the working-man, and from the liberal deconservatory tradition, as this middle-class saying says, "of the importance of society in the various expressions of our country, which confirms its engagement in knowledge, in development, and in progress." There are some who always demand and present actions, but when they come out of the words which express actions, ideas, reflection, and designs, and when they agree in words, we think the way is easier and more open. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u34	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Passing the answers, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mr. Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u35	Thank you, President. Mrs Pinedo, thank you for your advice, and I take this matter as well. But I think that in the end you will have to be grateful for the initiative, because we give it an opportunity, we give it the opportunity to discuss what we have asked the Government to bring us, and in that sense we are stimulating a debate, so it could have been added perfectly. I know you are taking the position of abstention surely to protest that strategy or that position that we have as a formula for our agreements, but, in any case, I believe you are basically in agreement with what we have said. Because everyone – there will be nothing more to see, the one who followed the debate – we all talked about the same thing when we were talking about the social economy: formula, the social economy, which has resisted, development, innovation, sustainable development, employment, people at the center of economic activity, in relation to their role within the different forms or formulas of the social economy..., and we have all valued our own data in relation to what is... And, Mrs Pinedo, I have no doubt (I have no doubt, because it cannot be otherwise) that it will be done with the agents of the social economy. I have no doubt. Please note, the first discussion of a Government communication that we requested, which my group requested there for 2008, in relation to the social economy, and which it brought, was on an issue that had been agreed upon by the Basque Government, the Higher Council of Cooperatives and the Basque Association of Cooperatives itself. In that regard, that first debate that had been done had already been held together with the sector. We couldn't back down, it wouldn't make any sense. Moreover, this agreement and communication served to ensure that the Government, also with the representative institutions of labour societies, with ASLE in any case, made a second agreement. In other words, what we encourage with this kind of communication is precisely union and work with the agents of the social economy. And I have no doubt (because it also needs it, it needs it) that the Government, in bringing this communication, will rely on the data given to it by the entities, the sectors, the agents of the social economy. I have no doubt that the Government will rely on the EGES network, which is the Basque network of social economy entities; it will rely on the OVES reports, which is the Basque Observatory of the Social Economy; it will rely on what it says, and does and works, the Institute of Deusto of Cooperative Law, and I have no doubt that it will rely on what it says GEZKI, which is the Institute of Social Economy of the University of the Basque Country, because it works on the ground, and I have no doubt that it will continue to do and inform itself of what Konfekoop says, or what ASLE says, or what the coordinators of the integration centres, of employment centres say, and what other coordinators of other social economy formulas say. That is, that in that sense you have not named that circumstance which you proposed as essential because it is yours. It's yours. In a report of these characteristics, the Government cannot do so alone, because it would also be noted. In other words, the Government must be involved in seeking those references with others. Well, Mrs Zabala has also expressed some differences, but I think that placing the debate committee (you say the Committee on Economic Development and Competitiveness), I do not know, does not matter that much. I mean, he's on the commission to... We have put it in the Committee on Labour and Justice because the report and the communication will be entrusted to Mrs San José, her department and her team, but I would have no problem discussing it in another committee. But I don't think that's the essential thing. Nor is it essential that it be six months, as you say. We propose nine, which is practically the same. I mean, I think you could think of Mrs Pinedo and Mrs Zabala, and vote for something that they and you will need. It will serve them for a debate; for a positive debate, a debate that will certainly be agreements basically, but it will be development, as we have seen in previous debates. Because the initiatives that emerge from previous discussions or previous communications are projected in relation to the law of cooperatives, in relation to improving the organization of the section of cooperatives of territorial delegations, which create a catalogue, the inclusion of satellite accounts, the Basque strategy of corporate social responsibility, promoting corporate social responsibility (i.e., there are a lot of issues that have been...), being active agent, dialogue and active participation... Look at you, dialogue and active participation of the social economy, that we will also bring you to this House! We have two proposals for legislation that will come shortly to be taken into consideration and we hope that they will definitely become law, so that the entities of the social economy will integrate into areas where they were not. For example, in the Euskadi Education Council, where there were no cooperatives, which are about 24% educational cooperatives, or in the SPRI in relation to the possibility of impacting and working within the councils. I mean, we're working on the search for that interview. There are many other issues, I have run out of time (I have just finished, Madam President), but I think that basically Mrs Zabala and Mrs Pinedo are absolutely in agreement with what the philosophy of the initiative is, and also the way in which we can continue to talk and develop the social economy. Because, I say again, the background speech, curiously, we have said it all in the same way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u36	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Together the representative of the Podemos team, Mrs. Wide, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u37	Thank you, ma'am, again. It's true, Mr. Barrio, that we agree in many things. Still, we can't agree with investment. And I'll tell you, when we met with the agents of the social economy, they taught us how the investment came down years ago, that is, economic doping. Here I have a painting (it shows a grafic) and they all gathered together, and I suppose you'll have all these facts. Social, 6.051.854 euros. During the year this sum has been diminished, and in 2016 you will have it, as I have told you, r3,35.600 euros. Of course, we've had a built-in attitude and we'd like you to come to an agreement in this middle-directional correction. But we can't agree with these facts. We cannot agree with you and the government, for to have a constructive position, there must be consistency, and in order to maintain consistency, we must keep the investments. And if we want to create a job, we need to invest the money. And of course, we have to look after our companies, because we know 60. When it began in the decade to promote social and solidarian economy, happily it was a precursor Basque. And in order to remain precursor, we have to invest money, which is what the representatives of the corporate movement call us. They explained their concern to us, and we, of course, make you ask questions. So I'd like to know why this reduction of yours is made, and of course I know it would be a good deal to get to an agreement, but, in that case, we can't get to that agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Pindo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u39	Thank you. Yellow neighborhood, nik ez said bronkarik boot. Nik Bakarrik adierazi due to Zelan Heldu Zareten Akordio Honorara. And, as one of my colleagues said right now, if we are going to talk about the social economy and the values of the social economy, and among them cooperation and agreement, the least thing is to preach with the example, which is what has not been done here today with this compromise amendment: no cooperation, no agreement. No! No! No, because the first thing you've done is veto talking to two groups, and that's called not preaching by example, Mr. Barrio. Do not preach by example. You cannot praise a style and then exercise another very different one, which is what you did not say, that of the traditional economy or that of the liberal economy, that the other day a companion of yours praised with so much emotion and so much desire. And when I said that this report had to be prepared in collaboration with the agents of the social economy, when one speaks of collaboration cannot... You have used verbs like "It will be supported" in the different reports of different organizations, and "It will be informed" (the government will be informed of what they say for example Konfecoop and other cooperative associations). That's not collaborating, Mr. Barrio. No, no, no. That's not collaborating. That's going and reading what someone else said. That's not collaborating. Collaborating is a joint work, a work between government and social actors, and getting to know what the social agent says, that's not collaborating. That is looking from the telescope, which is what is usually done from some areas in this government: looking from the telescope. That's what you usually do. And, I insist, government commitments? Yes, government commitments to the social economy, sector by sector and area by area. Because that's not what it looks like! Because again we're talking about the social economy as the ugly sister of the economy. Yes! Yes! Yes! We speak again of the social economy as the ugly sister of the economy, because, while agents of the traditional economy are present in certain organs, the social economy seems to have to be something like beautiful, which is good from time to time to talk about the values of the social economy, but then we forget about it when it comes to talking about the economy, the development of a people and working for this people to move forward. And that's what I said: that the people who are working in the social economy are making a fundamental contribution to the future of this country. And once again I come to the usual, not to work with, but "Well, yeah, I'll call you to see what you tell me, but don't come and write. I'll be in charge of writing." And that's what's coming. And also, if it was so easy, if, as you said, there really wasn't much... then it wasn't so hard to put into the compromise amendment that this report will be drawn up in cooperation with the sector, which wasn't so expensive either. But, of course, that is a matter of will, and you have never had the will to agree.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u41	Well, as Mr Barrio has said, it is clear that, in essence, we all agree on today's initiative, with small nuances of difference. I think it would have been better, my group believes that it would have been better to achieve greater consensus on this point (it was very simple, I think), but at least the compromise amendment has a majority to be adopted today in this House, and that is at least what is important for further progress. Mrs Pinedo, the Commissioner for Labour and Justice has already said this, and I said this in my first presentation, that she was committed to expanding relations with the organisations representing the sector. Not just in the law of cooperatives he's going to do it. Obviously, when drawing up this communication, it will be done as has always been done (and Mr Barrio has said so before me), in the actions that have previously been taken in this House in the field of the social economy. It has never been behind the backs of the sector concerned, and I am sure that in this case it will not be done either. And, therefore, nothing happens either because it's written or it's not written. Actually, it's going to be done. And it wouldn't have cost anything to pick it up either, I agree, but even if it's not picked up, it's going to do exactly the same. Mrs Zabala, in the amendment to the whole originally tabled by you, the only thing that changes is in which committee you can debate. Obviously, if the social economy is in the Department of Labour and Justice, it is normal that we debate within the Commission on Labour and Justice, but, come on, we debate in one or we debate in another, the debate is the same, which is the important and truly relevant thing. And, therefore, I believe that that hue is of no greater importance. And then, too, time is practically the same as you proposed, because its realization is already going to be done in the six months, and at most the communication will be presented here in the first quarter of 2018, that that is a maximum deadline. It could be less. Communication will already be developed, with which the difference will be very little time. Therefore, the nuances, the difference, are practically non-existent. And, Mrs Zabala, I believe that you have at the end put as an argument "Well, it is that, as aid has declined, so I am not going to support today's initiative, which we are talking about preparing a communication". It has nothing to do with that argument with what we are talking about today and with what we are going to approve today! In addition, I would recommend that the budgets be looked at carefully, because this year there has been no reduction in the budget line devoted to the social economy and entrepreneurship. Obviously, I do not have the budgets right now and in one minute I cannot tell you exactly, but it has not been reduced, but it has been increased. With which it is not an argument either as to say, "This, which has nothing to do with what we are talking about, I also take it as an excuse not to sign or not to support today's initiative." I think it has nothing to do with it, and this year it has not been reduced, but it has been increased. With this I encourage you to think about it and vote in favour of the initiative, because the nuances are so small of difference, between the transactional presented and what you presented also initially, and the arguments you have given, that the difference is almost nothing. And the difference with EH Bildu is that it does not appear that it will be made with the representative organizations of the sector. Whether it is going to be done, figure or not figure in writing within the initiative to be adopted today. That is why I also encourage you to vote in favour of it. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u42	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. In conclusion, the Eubertarian representative of the group, the distant lord, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u43	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Well, I intend to keep it short, but I'd like to arrange a few things. First, Mrs. Wide, you say this should be in the Economy development. Well, I don't know if it should be in Economic development or not, but I know it's not. And now that we're talking about socialnomy, I'm going to tell you again about Father Ariat. He would say: "Etre el passo donde están nuestros recerados, y el futuo en el tenemos nuestras illusionas, debemos afrontar abrado los deberens que nos impponen las circuntas." And circumstances, this subject, place it in the Department of Job and Justice. And besides, I believe that this department, the Department of Work and Justice, is also entitled to the name of social society, to treat of social phenomena, to work, and justice. Then, well, the argument you're making around your co-workers to avoid assent and to abstain from it seems to me at least that it's not what the plans of our present budgets reflect. But, well, we have our limits on each side, don't we? I'd say to Mrs. Pindo: I have listened to you from the first interference, and I would fully sign what you were talking about. But I go back to the same place: Surely we all have our limits, don't we? And then we hold some clichés, and we say: "Esa nueción que titiendes con elP." That new relationship? Here relations usually have a rather high degree of infidelity, because, as has been shown in the previous item on the agenda, thanks to the PP's vote in his favour you have taken out the transactional you had with Podemos. They could be transparent and publish it in the gastetxes, for example! With regard to the two fundamental arguments that the social partners and their presence are not mentioned, I do not think that this Government, neither the previous one, nor the previous ones, have done anything in the field of social economy without the collaboration and presence and active participation of the social partners. In addition, I fear that the social partners also have sufficient capacity to address the Government. I mean, it's a relationship, in that too, bilateral. Because agreements are often bilateral, and this agreement may seem a formality, but it is important. And shielding myself that he didn't call me, he did call me... It seems to me that we should overcome some childishness in Basque politics in this respect, because, seeing the differences we have at this point, for example, the truth is that this should be adopted unanimously. Yesterday, when I left this Parliament, I was informed that Podemos' entry into our transaction was possible, and unfortunately only abstention was possible this morning. What happened in the meantime? Well, I don't know! I don't know, but I wouldn't be surprised that, as the song said, "the commander arrived and ordered him to stop." And last point. Look, I'm gonna shave you, Mrs. Pinedo, an expression. Yeah, that one from the "ugly sister of the economy." Note that, if that expression came to me, it would have appeared on all social networks as a clear exponent of the machirulo of heteropatriarchal society. [[Berber]] Besides, I don't think the government treats this as the ugly sister you say. No, no. I don't think he's treating him. And, as the issues today measure their importance by so-called cross-cutting, I believe that this issue is also being addressed from a cross-cutting point of view, from different government departments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u44	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the half-correction signed by Euskal Socialists and Euzian patriots. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes given are 75; the supporters are 46; the opponents are 0; white is 0; 0; 10. 29.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u45	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. I interrupt the entire meeting at this moment. At 12:00 silence outside, then we'll continue with our fourth point. It was eleven o'clock in the morning and fifty-four. The meeting began again at twelve o'clock at eight o'clock.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u46	Forth point on the theme list: "Go and collect the proposition as a parlamentary group, concerning the guarantees that the pensioned and laboured ones should not be remunerated by medicine. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Blanco, it's your word to introduce and get rid of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u47	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Until the day after the famous Decret, 16/20 King Decret, pensioners had nothing to pay for the medicines they needed to pay for using a social security card. We, at least, do not doubt that the pensioners ought to be supported by health, because they have paid their dues during their life. On the other hand, after having accepted the royal decree, more than 400 medications were issued from the protection system of Social Security, and the pharmaceutical companies were reduced to paying 100 percent of the price imposed on the market. Also, for the rest of the bottles, or for other medical products, they must pay 10% of the price of pharmaceutical. And in order to defend this little gift left by the Government of Madrid, Popular groups use the same excuse whenever we have discussed this subject: Compliability. PP is saying that the health system was in the balance, and that, to the same extent as that system, there was no other remedy. That is to say, they had been forced to make this decision; they had to admit that this decree was necessary, and that it was necessary that they should end it with the free will of the Botics, in order to prevent the failure of the kingdom of Spain. It is clear that any public system, which assures the social welfare of education, education, and social service, ought never to be dianad, especially if the weakest and the most vulnerable persons are exposed. This remuneration prevents universality and equality, clearly and distinctly, from lending the sick a bribe. They are persons with the lowest pensions who have the most and most urgent health problems, and the restrictions weaken them in the presence of disease. And this is what is happening since the implementation of this decree: that we are prevented from receiving what is right for us, that it is only access to the health system and have guaranteed the treatments or medicines we need to take in order to have good health, or to have chronic diseases under control; that we receive it even if we do not have sufficient financial resources. On the other hand, funk agreed to 447/2013 Decree, November 19, which regulates help to facilitate the performance of medical treatments promised by the workers of the Eukatic medical system. The Medical Department, who are contented with being a pensioner in Social Security, will restore to those who have incomes below 18,000 dollars a year, the number of those who have been obliged to pay at the time of their appeal. So it is with people who are in a legal state of unemployment and have no incomes. The fact is that during the last three years we have shown that the original planning and predictions of this decree have not been fulfilled, as was expected. The line of money that appears in the budget for the rethinking of these expenditures, for instance, has never been exhausted, and that has been due to certain factors. For example, data and documentation that are to be submitted to the benefit of those who are benefited are not easy to perform. We know now that an easy solution can be reached, but many people do not know how to fulfil their demands. Although information has been opened and published, there are many people now who don't know this decree. And if it's one thing or another, the millions that the Medical Department leads to co-ordination are fewer and fewer. In July 2013, e.g. This line of money is smaller and smaller, and the year's fortune is not spent. And it's not about spending money on the budget. It is a question of whether, if we have a population that can benefit from this type of aid, however small it may be, it will do so. It's about trying to keep no one in the way. And not only that: if we can also offer that little benefit to people who today do not opt for it, better than better. And this has been the story, the way to this day. The situation in which we find ourselves makes it possible for that so-called pharmaceutical replenishment – replenishment we say, because for us it is a replenishment, it is not a copayment (it is paid twice) – to affect people who each day have less purchasing power, to pensioners by setting an example, who see daily how their pension is reduced more and more. And it also directly affects your health, because it is proven that a more than significant percentage of these people abandon their pharmacological treatments. And, on the other hand, the measures launched by the Department of Health in 2013 are not benefiting many potential perceptors and perceptors who could do so. During the last parliamentary term there were a number of initiatives discussed in this House on this subject, the majority being driven by this group, and also jointly with the Socialist Group, without too much success we have to say. That is why we believe that the time has come to take up the matter again, to turn around the measures that we have under way today, to review the situation, always in order to go a step further and to benefit the people who need it most. New legislature, new airs, new agreements. Our proposal today, and hence the agreement we have signed with the two groups supporting the Government and with Elkarrekin Podemos, revolves around four main ideas. I will not read it literally, because for that you have it at your disposal, but I will try to briefly explain our points of agreement. We believe that the time has come to reject this Decree 16/2012, that the PP does not intend to modify and that it goes against all the principles that should govern a good health system. That is why we again ask the People's Party to repeal it. The truth is that we believe that the PP should urgently reconsider it, because if they want to drown certain groups economically, they should gnaw at those who have the euro left, not the most disadvantaged people. As long as the People's Party remains in its thirteen and does not repeal the royal decree, we believe it is necessary for the Department of Health, in this case, to continue to provide citizens with the necessary mechanisms for no person to be left without the pharmacological treatment prescribed by the professionals of Osakidetza. Furthermore, we believe that these mechanisms should be reviewed, as I said earlier, because, as we have said, aid is not reaching all those who could benefit. An increasingly small budget line is available, which does not end up with 100 per cent implementation. And finally, we ask the Department of Health to change the Decret 447/2013, in order to give access to the treatment of all the people who live in the EAE, and the revenues of money. Yeah, so far we've been around pensioners all over our interference, but unfortunately, we find, among us, a few days in a vulnerable position, like those who have no job, and hire incomes. And among people who hire incomes to ensure their income, unfortunately, some of them have jobs. But here is what we have often accused: that it is not at present guaranteed to be in a state of poverty, and even to those persons we propose all this. That's exactly what we plan today. On the other hand, it is well for us to add together, as described by Podemos. It's not stupid to know what's meant to be a financial plan or what's the exact amount of money or what's the exact number of new benefiters. Mr. Uria has also signed this medium, though in the middle of the process he has not made his corrections, so that the agreement we have made is grateful to both of us to the position of Podemos together. We applaud the agreement we've made today, most of the teams are here, we sign it, and this time the popular team stays alone. We long for this royal decree of PP, when it ceases; hope is never lost. And we expect with more care the change of 447/2013 Decree: whether at this time and by step we are able to prevent the reductions of the Government of Madrid over and over again. But I have been able to conclude that we should neither accept decree nor measure here, if we had all the independence of our resources in the Basque Country, our medicines, and the means of managing them freely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. They've submitted corrections to teams, together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Uria, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u49	Egun on, Bakartxo Tejeria andrea. Sailburuok, Osasuneko Sailburua, fellow Members of Parliament. We are pleased that there has been a consensus between four political forces in Parliament, and this indicates that there are members to be able to achieve pact processes in defence of Basque public health in this legislature. Eva Blanco has made basic comments, as a proposer, about the damn Royal Decree Law 16/2012 and the copayo that derives from that decree. I'm not going to say much more, but you're going to allow me three brief comments about the pharmaceutical coffer. The first reflection is where the copayo comes from, the second is its consequences, and the third is some doubts that we have, although we have agreed on the non-law proposal. These societies that have come to us to live are called capitalists. The name was coined by Marx in 1860, and later by sociologists of some importance, such as Max Weber himself in his famous book "The Protestant Ethics and the'spirit' of capitalism", they consolidated that name. These companies have as their central element the accumulation of capital in the market economy, and when such accumulation of capital is distorted, or has low rates of profit, these companies are in crisis. Crisis like the last of late 2000, which, according to economist Harvey, crises are interesting inventions of the market's smarts, because they aim to quickly recover the rates of accumulation of lost capital. And all of Europe went to it, and they also went to work to recompose these capital rates, with a criterion (especially the neoliberal right), which is to charge in the most disadvantaged sectors the costs of the crisis, the costs of recovering the rates of gain. It was the labor reforms, it was the savings of 7 billion euros in education and health, and it was the damn Royal Decree 16/2012, where it contains, among others, the pharmaceutical copayo. In other words, the most unprotected populations bear the costs of the problems that capital has had in its way of organizing its accumulations and profit rates. The copago in sanity was directly a shot at the most fragile, sickest, most vulnerable sectors of our society. It was tried to do for sections that the pensioners participated in this payment, it was even talked about ceilings (eight euros a month), and it was even talked about sections to pay (to pay back) part of the drug game, until we started to get some surveys. The first of these, from more than 1,500 pensioners, is the obvious fact that 14.76% who received a prescription from their public health doctors did not withdraw their entire prescription from the pharmacy offices for economic reasons. Only a few weeks ago we received from the Scientific Society of Cardiology that 8% of pensioners diagnosed with coronary heart failure do not take their medicines at the pharmacy offices for economic reasons. The Basque Government considered that the social distortions of the measure, which jumped into sight – because they may be right-wing, but we must try not to be clumsy –..., considered that social distortions were important; considered that difficulties in access to medicines were important; considered that they could increase the social inequalities that were already in Basque society and Spanish society; considered that health costs were increasing, since, if you do not have timely medication, especially chronically ill people decompensate and enter hospitals and our emergency system, and it was considered that morbidity (diseases) and mortality were increasing in these sectors. I remember that people of eighty years in Euskadi are about 20,000 people, the same as those of fifteen years old, and I remember that over sixty-five years old in our land there are already 450,000 people, being the population strip of eighty years old and more the one that grows the most. So far we've agreed. The Basque Government, sensitive to these issues, has put forward a set of regulations to ensure accession, and we do have seven million and a peak to cover applicants by reimbursing costs, either in a simplified form or in the standard form, to reverse their costs in pharmacy against invoice. That's fine with us. We have some doubts. It has already been discussed in the last legislature whether it could be a more or less bureaucratic element, especially knowing that the chronically ill to whom we are referring are mostly older people. I insist that the strip of eighty years and more, our chronically ill, is the most affected people, and therefore, who work poorly with papers. The Health Adviser has said on several occasions that the bureaucratic access procedure will be simplified. We have some doubts that all the groups affected by the measure of access to medicines for their full treatments are who they are. We know that low-income pensioners, with incomes of up to 18,000 euros, are; we know that the people who are recipients of RGI are. We have more doubts about some people who are not pensioners, who do not charge GIR, who are not perceivers, but who do have the TIS (the individual health card) because they meet the requirements for this. We have some doubts that all those who need help are in the process of reimbursing expenses to collect their bills and guarantee medication, nullifying the perverse effects of co-payment policies, as Eva Blanco has well explained. We just have to say that scientific societies, our societies of doctors, social agents, management teams, are getting more nervous and nervous. I remember that the Basque Autonomous Community was the only one and the first to try to smooth this out gently, without too much confrontation with our Constitutional Court, this measure with the regulations. Indeed, we have also noted, as Eva Blanco rightly says, the reduction in the budget from the outset. We also know that many times the expenses of our families, our aitas and our mistresses are scarce, they are twenty or thirty euros, and that does not encourage many families and many elderly chronically ill people to apply for expenses, because it is outrageous. We believe that the Basque Government must make an effort not only to maintain the neutralization of these perverse effects on health inequalities and on our elderly people, but also to actively propose the annulment of the Royal Decree Law 16/2012, but also to make an effort, as we think, a study, or comment with other advisors on the opportunity for most of the people who are receiving the economic benefit from our Government to be adequate, and for those who are lacking to make an effort to capture them. I just want to end by reiterating that the initiative of the Basque Government at the time, and the speed in trying to neutralize also the problems of universal access to Osakidetza, to the Basque health system, are welcome measures, but we believe that the clumsiness of the current Minister of Health, Montserrat, posing new stages to try to paste the pharmaceutical coffer, as it has achieved a level of... Not only has the People's Party itself told him "Montserrat, don't go in there, don't deal with the blanket...", and he did immediately shut up, but he has achieved a level of opposition... Not Only United We can in the Congress of Deputies, not only the PSOE: even Citizens and most other political forces are against the pharmaceutical copago. We end up congratulating the political groups that have agreed to this law, and encouraging the Government to make an effort to seek coverage..., not the maximum or the minimum: adequate coverage for the benefit to reach those who have to arrive, and thus, of course, avoid any inequalities and problems that may arise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u50	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u51	Thank you, President, and good morning to you all. Well, the initiative that EH Bildu brings us today, as Mr Uria said, has a broad agreement, and then I think it has two objectives. The first is to join forces to call for the repeal of the 2012 drugstore, which caused thousands of Basque families to have difficulty acquiring the prescription drug. And the second objective is to maintain the compensation measures that guarantee the treatment of low income. Today, as you have already said, the agreement will be supported by four of the five parliamentary groups in this House. We are glad, because initially the justification for the initiative was striking. At its third point, it said that a compensation system had failed, thanks to which more than 300,000 Basques and Basques had not had to give up their treatment in the last three years. The alternative, we understand, was not being able to pay them, and of course we cannot share this statement. And it is striking that the work of this House is being scorned, we understand, too much. Because the justification says that this compensation was achieved by the signing of thousands of people. Of course, it was one of the first socialist initiatives, and it was quickly emulated by some political party. And it was the first thing we talked about then, in that legislature. And we lost, it is true, yes, we lost, when you and we asked the same thing: that we use all the mechanisms within our grasp, within our competence, to prevent the effect of the so-called drug. Then the different ways of acting were already seen. The Socialist Parliamentary Group from the opposition understood that we should insist on what we continue to reaffirm today, until we were able to change the opinion of the Basque Government. We agreed to make a compensation decree that, I insist, has been a pioneer in Spain, imitated in other parts now governed by governments that call themselves change, and then we managed to enable the budget line that made it possible, since we understand that words can hold everything, but it needed money. Then, when the possibility of agreement was opened, in June 2013, the left abertzale at that time preferred to take off, despite going on what we had travelled together until then. Some since the opposition did not care to agree when those agreements had tangible results in people's lives, and this was one of those issues. And we did it with negotiation. Even if it is insufficient, even if you do not get everything you would like, but every time the Basque Socialist Party negotiates with others, it always puts its face and eyes at what it negotiates: 300,000 beneficiaries of rest aid, 1,810 families who did not cut off their electricity and water last year, more than 300 families who accessed a home they did not have at their disposal. We understand that all this is won, even if it is better, at a negotiating table. But no. As if nothing had been done was a step forward, as if in June 2013 we could not urge the Government to arbitrate as soon as possible, and in the use of its self-government capacity, compensation measures for all those whose income is less than EUR 18,000 per year and are in an objective state of illness and necessity since 1 July, the date from which they will be affected by the pharmaceutical replenishment. That was said textually, as if there was no decree of November of that year by arbitrating this way. It's insufficient, yes. The population that could objectively benefit is likely to be more than described. It is likely that the system can be speeded up, that the possibilities of the electronic recipe already mentioned by Mr Darpón at the beginning of this parliamentary term can be explored. Yeah, it's likely. That is why in our amendment we said that the system should continue to be reviewed. But it is also fair and it must be fair to recognize what has been done, and what has also been done well. Socialists believe it is an opportunity to reiterate our unequivocal commitment to reverse the situation generated in April 2012 by the People's Party. And it's good to remember what was going on here in Euskadi. In Euskadi he ruled Patxi López, and he designed an alternative decree with our powers, which gives us our Statute of Autonomy, which was in line with what is proposed here today, five years later. But that formula was put on hold – as those who have spoken before me have already said – by the Constitutional Court, and, as we all know, has not yet been resolved. Immediately the Socialists, already in the opposition, we proposed that while the substance was being resolved, while the Socialist Basque Government's decision not to apply the respite is in suspense, other formulas should be sought without legal risk, which is what we have. So this debate is an attempt to leave someone in evidence (we understand that it will not be us), and, to make our proven facts even clearer, we reiterate that the right to universal, free and quality health is enunciated in the Spanish Constitution and in the law called "de Ernest Lluch", and the own competences and the Basque model to develop this right are in the Statute of Self-Government of Gernika, in the Law of Osakidetza and in the Law of Sanitary Ordination. And what we want, and we do to the extent that it is possible today, is to make use of up to the last of our powers to enforce those rights. We have not been left with the rejection of rest, we reiterate, because it is a profoundly unfair measure and contrary to our free, public and universal model of health, where no one who needs it should be left without health care or the procedure prescribed by the doctors. We haven't stayed on the surface, and we've designed a compensation model. Imperfect, surely imperfect, but much better than your alternative. For the Basque socialists it is also the essence of self-government as we understand it, as we are doing in other matters, without remaining alone in the mere claim, which we also make. And in that matter of rest, defending, and doing the same thing when we were ruling, when we were in the opposition and when we were back in the government. Of the initiative presented to us today by EH Bildu, the most positive part is that we reiterate ourselves in what has already been discussed and defended in the last parliamentary term; that four of the five groups in this House support it, and that, once again, the People's Party remains alone in the vote on this initiative. The Basque Socialists in this we have little hope. We understand that the Group of the European People's Party is not going to join this majority vote, and that it will once again defend what Mr Rajoy defends in Madrid. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u52	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians, Mrs. Appledui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u53	Thank you, Madam. Good evening, chiefs and congressmen. I'd like to thank those groups of people who are signing this amendment today for the agreement we've done for the work we've done, the work and the will: to reread our proposals, rewrite them, and agree with the population. In this Chamber, as we have already observed, the Eucobertist group does not agree with the 16/2012 Decree of the Spanish Government. From our point of view, that decree goes against our plugs, and it could also be the influences we don't approve of in public health systems. We don't accept that either, we won't accept it. I would like to determine, in any case, some of the terms mentioned in the deliberation of the other lawlike proposition. The proposing group in its justification points out that as a result of the approval of the Royal Decree Law 16/2012, more than four hundred medicines were left out of the system of social security protection, which are paid 100 per cent of the market price established by the pharmaceutical companies. The withdrawal of public funding for these medicines is not a measure of either co-payment or respite (then we'll talk about that too). It is a measure of updating the catalogue of drugs not funded by the national health system, which is applicable in our territory. The reasons for their withdrawal have been the lack of contrasting efficacy, or the existence of drugs with the same effectiveness but at lower cost. This does not, therefore, entail an added burden on people who require treatment, nor a detriment to the quality of treatment. Osakidetza professionals and professionals have drugs that are equal or more effective. The decree speaks of new co-payments, because the co-payment of some medications is not even a new measure. What the decree establishes are new co-sponsorship measures, to which both our Government and our parliamentary group have been disconcerted on more than one occasion. And to the point of this, it must be said that Eukadin has been forced to leave no medical treatment to pay for not paying for medical treatment, whether pension or any other member of the community, for the health department has measures for the treatment of the professional members of the Osalist to complete every patient. As you are well aware, the Department of Health, led by the Basque Nationalist Party, already established in the previous legislature a series of measures aimed at ensuring adherence to treatment for all those who had economic difficulties in doing so. You may or may not like it, you may think that it is done this way or that it would be better to do so in another way (constructive and guaranteed proposals are welcome), but you cannot say that the system has failed, which has not managed to reach all beneficiaries directly. It may not have managed to reach all potential beneficiaries, but that includes those who may have benefited from the aid and have decided not to submit the application. It's not just a question of endowment. Aid for admission to treatment is granted to any person applying for treatment. All of them, yes. They must be requested by the beneficiary, because that is the way to ensure that it is not a measure appealed by the central Government. Our Government would also like to be able to manage access to all kinds of pharmaceutical treatment differently, and we will continue to do so without renunciation, but, in the meantime, things change, as people are our goal, in the current normative circumstances in which we apply ourselves is to provide Basque citizens with practical, real and guaranteeable measures. I do not have to remind this Parliament that in order to receive aid in the form of a grant it is essential that there is an express and signed request. There is no unnecessary requirement from the Department of Health. The electronic prescription, extended to all pharmacy offices in our community, would technically allow non-payment, no problem, but do you know what would happen? It would happen that we would be violating Royal Decree Law 16/2012, opening the way for the appeal and the immediate suspension of the measure by the central government in the Constitutional Court. Do we want that? Would citizens understand that we would put at risk a measure beneficial to the health of the most vulnerable groups by mismanaging it? I don't think so! And that would be – let us not forget – the responsibility of our Government. We believe, of course, that this is not possible, that the measures proposed to citizens by our Government must have sufficient legal certainty and rigour. In saying this, the States and the Basque States of Spain, and the Basque States, fortunately, have not the same health system. For us, it is one of the axes of the advanced society of health, of the vital quality of the population, of cohesion and equity. We have hitherto managed to maintain our system in the Euskakia; we have not created the state's debt in health; We get the whole population here to have public, universal, quality, integral, and free health, with our budget, with the money of our population and all the population. Let us now continue to defend the benefits of our system, and forget all means by mutual consent, for the benefit of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The next round of the group that hasn't issued any correction, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Congressmen, chief officers. We are again discussing this subject in this legislature. We must say how we discussed this subject several times during our previous legislation: We discussed the like proposals, the interferences took place, even the chief physician and the government. But, to begin with, I would begin with an assertion, that my Discourse, my Intervention, is a model of our System over the world, and is also admitted to be so, not by certain inhabitants, but by divers Institutions throughout the world. Well, we're again talking about the copago (some call it repago), a pharmaceutical copago, but it has to be said that the pharmaceutical copago has always existed. In other words, the pharmaceutical copayo does not appear with the famous royal decree, that of 2012, of measures aimed at ensuring the sustainability of the National Health System. The pharmaceutical coffer has been in existence for 50 years, particularly since 1969. The only thing he tried – and I believe that in addition, in terms of the results, to which I will then refer... – is to guarantee, with a series of measures in different areas, the sustainability and viability of the National Health System. As I said, our national health system is a reference model, and it must also be said that health is one of the public services most valued by citizens. And it has also been thanks to the triumph..., and it is a triumph of all: of the different agents who interact in the field of health, political representatives who have had responsibilities of government in the different institutions, citizens, professionals... And professionals and agents, as I say, from different fields. And our system, fortunately, and will continue to do so, guarantees public, free, universal and quality health care. Inolako zalantzarik gabe esan dezakegu gure saúde systemak bermatzen due to public health care, unibertsala and dohainik. There is no doubt that national health systems have to face the various challenges, and one of them, the most important, is to face the demographic challenge. We live longer, we have more life expectancy, we are longer, that's very good, but that involves addressing needs in the socio-health field, and specifically in the health field. There are now 3 million people over the age of eighty, 9 million people over the age of sixty-five, who in 2050 will be 16 million people (i.e. one third of the population). That's very good, we live more, that's thanks to all the advances of the welfare society, of the welfare state, but then we also have to deal with people who live longer, with more health needs, with more chronic needs, in the area of dependence, even with the approach of multipathologies. Because already, and seeing that there are more and more people living more than eighty years, even now more than a hundred years, because, as you will understand, we have to address not only one disease, but different diseases as a whole. And the challenge of governments is precisely to address these situations seriously, rigorously. And that is what the People's Party did by pushing through Royal Decree 16/2012 of 20 April on urgent measures to ensure the sustainability of the National Health System. By the way, the autonomous communities – and I have already repeated this in more than one debate – called for measures from successive governments (which seem to have been put to work by the People's Party) precisely to give stability to the financing of health. We must therefore say that this royal decree is clearly advancing in the universalization of health care; it also addresses a basic portfolio of common services, in order to ensure equity in access to benefits (it therefore differs from what is the basic portfolio of a complementary portfolio); it sets up a centralized shopping platform, which has brought many savings; it guarantees the equity and cohesion of the National Health System, ensuring the coverage of displacements. Ultimately, they have been measures aimed at ensuring the consolidation of the welfare and health State as one of the pillars of the welfare State. If we wish to advance the well-being system, it is necessary to regulate the measures which guarantee stability, and to maintain the health and protection of the people. Therefore, what they try to do all the measures that are contemplated in this royal decree, and specifically also those pointed out in relation to the new criteria of copay... Because you don't set up the pharmaceutical co-op, there's no pharmaceutical replenishment. The pharmaceutical coop already existed in this country since 1967! What is done is to distribute the new criteria of the copayo so that the system is more fair, more equitable, and sustainable. What is done is to establish criteria, in the pharmaceutical copayo, in relation not only to age, but to income, and also to the situation of the degree of chronicity of the disease. Because, ladies and gentlemen, tell me if it is not more fair than for pensioners, that before everyone was equally exempt from paying for medicines and had red prescriptions, tell me, ladies and gentlemen, if it is not more fair than for pensioners, and taking into account absolutely (because it is taken into account by the system and the new criteria) the situation of the most vulnerable people and the most vulnerable pensioners, a small co-payment is established, a differentiation between the incomes of the different pensioners is established. Because no one escapes that it is not the same pension that pensioners in this country receive. Tell me if it's not fairer than people without a job, who have lost the right to receive a subsidy, now they don't pay anything, when they used to pay 40%. Before, people who were without unemployment benefit paid 40% of their medicines, and with the new criteria laid down in this royal decree they pay nothing! Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the system has arbitrated a number of measures which have undoubtedly made it a more just system. As people who are exempt, by toxic syndrome, or by disability in the assumptions set out in the specific regulations, people who collect income called social integration, people who collect non-contributory pensions... Not all pensioners pay! They pay on the basis of income, and those who receive non-contributory pensions are specifically exempt. And look, also the system, apart from arbitrating measures or new criteria in the distribution of the copago (because pharmaceutical copago, I insist again, already existed), what has also been one of the virtues of these measures has been to correct the inefficiencies and abuses that were occurring. Because it must be said that there were also abuses, there were inefficiencies in the system. It is that when this royal decree was promulgated the debt was 16 billion euros. The situation in 2012 was that 45 million containers were accumulated annually in Spanish households. It is that every year 3,700 tons (a year) went to the point SIGRE, collection point in the pharmacies, and the cost of those 3,700 tons was 1.2 billion. I believe that here we can each also do a self-criticism exercise and review how many medicines we stored, many of them already expired, and of course they could not be used, in disuse in our homes. I therefore believe that the benefits of this system have been important, apart from the savings that it has made possible. And I am finishing, Madam President, by saying that, apart from, obviously, the measures put in place, and thanks to the savings that have been made, we have managed to reverse these amounts, for example, into therapeutic innovations, with new treatments for cancer, or new treatments for hepatitis C, we have to say that fortunately there is no hospital co-op in Spain. But, look, it's that hospital co-op exists in many other countries very close to us. In France one euro is paid for the visit to the doctor, for a laboratory test, for an X-ray, for a medical transport... In Portugal you pay five euros to go to the doctor! In Spain, therefore, we can proudly affirm that health is free, universal and of quality, and that is thanks to everyone's efforts. I have to say – and I am finishing, Madam President – that we obviously cannot subscribe to the compromise amendment signed by all the groups, because it goes against this royal decree that we..., not us, but here are the data, in which I will stop more in the second intervention, because they are obviously positive. The sustainability of our national health system has been guaranteed, it has made it possible to save money and allocate it to therapeutic innovations, and I must therefore say, Madam President, that we will vote against the adopted text. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u56	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing on the day's answers, the representative of EH Collector, Mrs. Blanco, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u57	Thanks again. Mrs Garrido, you have devoted thirty seconds to the agreement, and the rest of your speech has told us about the royal decree, and you have tried to justify it. And it's that, as much as you see it, you always use the same arguments. See if you always use the same arguments, which in my first turn I have already told you what you were going to say in the second! Always, three years using the same arguments: that it seems that here tons and tons of medicines were accumulated, on the one hand, and sustainability. The problem, Mrs Garrido, is that the People's Party to ensure that sustainability you sell uses the most vulnerable people and groups as pillars. And it uses the social cohesion system as pillars. That's the problem. That's where you justify sustainability. As I say, three years without innovation. We shall see in the next debate. To Mrs. Red telling you... You have devoted yourself to counting, more or less, the initiatives that have been discussed in this Parliament in the last parliamentary term. I have already said so too, it is true, some were introduced: my colleague Rebeka Ubera, from EH Bildu; another her partner, Mrs Roncal; others together... And then you say that here everyone left on their side. No, no, We've tried to get to points of agreement, and I'm going to remind you that that everyone has gone on their side... Look, Mrs Red: 8 February 2016, last signed agreement, EH Bildu, Socialist Group. February 2016. I would like to remind both of you (not both of you, the whole House) that there have been many occasions when you have come here to us and our pensioner groups, to speak both at a particular level and in the committees, to ask for help. And in the commissions all that yes, that yes, and then, when they went out the door, if I've seen him I don't remember. Both Mrs Red and Mrs Sagardui have mentioned the justification for our non-law proposal. The two spokesmen have also stopped for a good time in explaining or trying to explain our justification for the non-law proposal. Mrs Sagardui has also made a correction, which I thank you for. I always say that here you come to learn and correct mistakes. But it also seems to me that you have used too much time in the justification, and what little to the agreement. Little to the deal. They will be able to wear it as they wish; to us, of course, the fourth point seems to us the most important, because that is where the novelty is. Mrs. Red said no, let's maintain the system and repeal the decree. No, no. The novelty is in point 4. In point 4 is the novelty. That, by the way, I also understand that Mrs Garrido is going to vote against, because, of course, if you have tried to load the GIR, how are you going to admit that the GIR collectors have more rights, right? "Les voy a recordar el Decreto 447/2013, que el que decimos en propanion no ley, en este accerdo, que hay que modificior." Point three: "Who are benefited. c) Men who have a legal state of unemployment and lack of incomes to ensure their incomes, if they are cores of the individual health system of Eukadical Health." And we say: "The parliamentor asks the Medical Department to change the Decree 447/2013 Decree, to assist all the people who have their income, whether they live in Araban, Biscaian, and Gipu, to keep their revenues safe." That's where the difference is, ladies and gentlemen. With this agreement we will try to provide coverage to more people. We think it's a good deal, I don't want to end this bad tone. I would like to conclude by thanking again the willingness of all groups, except the People's Party, to sign this compromise amendment. We believe it is a good agreement, we believe it is a courageous agreement, and we believe it is an agreement that is also absolutely necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Together the representative of the Podemos team, Mr. Uria, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u59	Dear Mrs. Tejeria. The agreement is fine, and the proposal and the regulation that the Basque Government has in force to ensure the accession to the medicines and their adoption by the sectors affected by Decree 16/2012 is fine. We only humbly propose that more attention be paid where it is most needed. Averages in data always hide inequalities. We know where there are chronic patients in Osakidetza, because we have very powerful information systems. We know where the oldest people in Euskadi are: 21% older than sixty-five years on average, but in Basauri and Portugalete there are 25%, in Bilbao 23%, and some small villages have 27% and 30%. We know where the elderly are, we know where the sick and chronically ill are, because we have, I insist, important information systems in Osakidetza. All right. We prioritise the work on capturing the most disadvantaged sectors that have these drug benefits where they are. We don't say anything else. Let an effort be made with the data we have. Let us disaggregate the data, and let us work and capture those people who are poor, fragile, sick, and who have also taken their decree. We propose to study the most vulnerable groups that are not currently in coverage. We know, Gotzone Sagardui, a parliamentarian, that the one who asks, has it. Accessibility processes in the Basque public administration have to do with bureaucracy and culture, which, in addition to economic problems, must be considered in terms of accessibility to public services. The bureaucracy and culture in paper management and computer management must be seen as the illiteracy of a sector of our larger populations in the management of the software that the Department of Health and Osakidetza has installed. Therefore, let us not indulge in matters that are right. We're going to do better, and we're going to do better by agreement of the groups. Regarding some of Laura Garrido's comments, always incisive, note, Laura, of the decree, the majority of the autonomous communities of the People's Party did not start another four cocoons: the cocoons of hospital pharmacy, the cocoons of non-urgent medical transport, the cocoons of food, and the cocoons of prosthetics. It was so absurd to save the chronically ill to pay for the cuts, it was so absurd, that the governments of the autonomous communities themselves (less Melilla and Ceuta, that I have information) never started it. And, finally, it is doubtful, and there are some data and some research – we are waiting to know the data, I say to say so joyfully – that the copayer has collaborated in saving social policies to pay for the cuts. It is more than doubtful – as the Association of Health Economists says, and so other professional associations say – that there will be savings in pharmaceutical co-payment processes. Even, some data already point out that for the shooting of health costs, of health costs, precisely because of non-adherence to medicines, these supposed savings do not become more expenses. We have some documents – we still can't point out all the information there is – that these co-payment systems, in general in Europe and specifically in the Spanish State, serve to save; even more: some carry our public institutions, and some trigger costs. And as far as medicines are concerned, I don't know why this Madrid government accepts 15,000 drugs into the public system, and the British College accepts 5,000 drugs. I don't know why we need 15,000 drugs. Our people need the right medications at the right time. There is probably enough work to be done in what is still called the rational use of the medicine, which, without a doubt, we hope that our health centers and hospital services at OSI will do what is called therapeutic cancellation or coordination of the rational use of the medicine, especially for the most fragile, older, more ill patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u60	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u61	Thank you again, President. Very briefly, because I believe that we have discussed a lot of this issue and there is also a broad agreement today. And, Mrs. Blanco, today is not the day for you and I to argue. I have highlighted the agreement, I said that it was very important that four of the five parliamentary groups have signed it, and I have not come here to list the initiatives. I said there's a story here. And it's not fair for you to say that parliamentary groups listen to the collectives and "yes, yes, yes" and "no, no, no", because it's not real. Because it was Mr. Patxi López who made the alternative decree when he was lehendakari. So, "yes, yes, yes," they were told, and "yes, yes, yes," it was done. I therefore believe that history will be known to them by their deeds, and we have fulfilled the commitments we have made with the collectives, which, like you, we met in the offices, and which we then had the opportunity to listen to them by way of appearance in the parliamentary committees. So, I think it's fair to recognize how things have been. And when I said that you decided to take off I said that in 2013 there was a possibility of agreement, in June 2013, on this subject, and, when you had gone with us, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, always in all agreements, at that time, you will know why, you decided to take off. That's what I said. But even with all that, even with the story, even with history, today I celebrate the agreement. That is what I came to say in my first speech, because I understood that today is not the day for EH Bildu and the Socialist Party to discuss, although it is fair to acknowledge that we also have our differences in raising the issue. Because that is why I explained to you that point 3 of your initiative could not be shared, because, as I said myself, and Mrs Sagardui, the system has not failed. The system is imperfect. Things have improved, you can certainly continue to improve, and I hope that there we will continue to find you and us. And, Mrs Garrido, you were talking about what was the fairest or most unfair measure, and you were trying to treat us as if we were absolutely unknown in this and other matters. You know that the decree passed by the Government of Spain, with Mr Rajoy as president and Mrs Mato at the time as minister, what he did was to leave vulnerable families..., made them more vulnerable than they were initially. And this you know as well as I do. The People's Party justified this decree by saying that it was expensive and unsustainable, and that the formula had to be sought in order to help people. And you know this isn't true. And they ended up defending this measure as an ideological measure and not as an economic measure. Because when you justified that Spain's health care system was unsustainable, because it was also very expensive, any study you take, which are hung on the websites of the autonomous communities and the ministry itself, it says it is one of the cheapest in the environment. And you have continued to insist on the issue, knowing that all political groups in the autonomous communities and in the Congress of Deputies itself today are against, clinging to ideology. And it seems respectable to me, but defend it as it is. Do not want to justify a measure that you take, making the sick person guilty in the end, which is what you have done, making him much more vulnerable. They have taken the economic crisis as the excuse to try to tumble (yes, Mrs Garrido) the welfare state, because they do not dare to defend that this is part of their right-wing ideology, in which they understand that if they end up paying the usual ones, then they will end up benefiting the usual ones as well. And that is what we have come to tell you here today, but those who were defending this issue in the last legislature and the previous one were also doing so. And why do I say this? Because, indeed, something good, although I believe that there is more than one thing today in the Congress of Deputies, that you will end up having to remove this measure that you launched in your day, just as it is happening to you with other measures, such as the law bites yesterday and like other measures, because you are now in minority. They have tried to use the economic crisis to bring their ideology to the homes of the people, they have tried to penalize the sick, and what they do not understand is that all the autonomous communities are against, even those led by the People's Party. Because when you have to manage and face the street, with your citizens, one thing is what you stand for in Congress and another is what you stand for in your autonomy. And it would be good for them to listen, to come to the agreement, to want to defend the Statute of Autonomy in this, to value self-government to say, together with all the parliamentary groups in this House, that the repeal of medicine would be one of the next steps that Mr Rajoy should take. When someone defends something must be brave, and therefore if it is an ideological issue, defend it, but do not want to cover this as an economic measure, because you know that, if you compare the Spanish health system with the rest of the environment, you will realize – and you know it perfectly well, that you have been a health spokesman much longer than I do – that the economy in this case is not the excuse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u62	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians, Mrs. Appledui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u63	Thank you, Madam. Mrs Garrido, I'm sorry, but I understand you can't join us today because you have to defend 16 Decrets of 2012. But I'll remind you again, as in the first shift I've done before, that we have a public Eukadin health service for the whole population, and that no one can leave his treatment for these economic problems, that we've been able to afford and maintain our budget. You've made some comparisons and what you've said I'm not more contradictory, but I don't agree. We don't have the same system in state and Basque, and I'll keep getting better from here, but from here, not from state system. Mrs. Blanco: My intention was not to correct your reflections, but to determine certain things, otherwise the inhabitants may think that there have been several foreign treatments, and I believe that there is no danger in the case of such arrangements of health as have been made in medicine. And, as I have said, all the professional doctors, as I have said, have the pharmaceutical products available to us by quality; that was my intention. Otherwise, how shall I not come to agree with the government, that it is useful to all, so that the whole inhabitants of need may receive the assistance which is necessary for the best of their health? That's what we're going to do, and that's what we're always going to find out. I understand, Mr. Uriya, that in today's digitalised society it is intelligible to ask for light and simplest measures in the communication of the government with its inhabitants; but I must tell you, because we use them, we know what needs our inhabitants are, and what they receive and what they receive. What we have to do for this is the separation of the data, and then make together the data, and do not ask for this, and what else. Membership knows what needs there are in our country in health, and which can receive a thing, and which is not, and what measures should be established. Even this week, the head physician of the Medical Department has put new ways of digitalization, new ways to facilitate things, a new app, by which we can easily learn from the house various important information about our health, not only our own, but our professionals. And this has been the last of all, but before that, several other enterprises have been put into motion in order to employ the progress of technology in the care of health: in clinical history, digitalization, the digitalization of these stories, the digitalization of the trial results, the consuls in the telephone line... But in this subject, which cannot otherwise be done, I will tell you again in the means, nor in every case which we know or do not know. The problem is in the laws. I've mentioned it before. In any case, it must be said that the excuse of aid is easy and easy, and it has been managed to facilitate the demands of the sick to-day. We're willing to keep this open to our professionals, to remind everyone of it... That's what we'll be seeing. And we are also certain that we shall find new ways, but let us remember that at the present day every one who has once asked, has only put his name to his full and signed it, is nothing else. I don't think I, nor do I, in every part of the Basque Country, are our analfabetite, our population is grown up; he who needs help receives it in our ambulances, in our hospitals, from our nurses, from our authorities, from our doctors. And he'll still be receiving it. It won't be that obstacle that people don't ask and can't get their scholarships. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The representative of the American Basque Group, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u65	Well, to start with Mr Uria, I must say that, according to various surveys and studies and the same as the OECD claims, economic reasons are certainly not a problem in Spain, and they are not the usual cause of the lack of adherence to treatments. See, according to the surveys to which you referred, Spain is one of the three countries where there are least economic problems in accessing pharmacological treatments, together with Sweden or the United Kingdom. So, you won't be doing things that bad. Well, I think it has become clear to you, after my speech, that we are certainly not facing a repose, that no co-sponsorship has been established, but that new criteria have been established in the pharmaceutical co-sponsorship that have made it more just, more sustainable and more equitable. Or, ladies and gentlemen, are you going to tell me that it is no more fair than the unemployed without benefits, who with the governments of the Socialist Party paid 40% of the medicines, with a government of the People's Party went on to pay zero euros? Or is it not more fair for pensioners to determine their payment for medicines according to income? Because, look, if we're talking about progressives, Mrs. Red, I don't think it was progressive to freeze pensions for pensioners! Because the only government in this country, in the history of this country, that has had the honor of freezing pensions to pensioners, those sectors so vulnerable to which you referred and which we of course share, is yours alone, as the only party that frozen pensions for the first time in the history of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation inherited by the People's Party (€16 billion in health debts) was also one of the socialist inheritances with which the People's Party was found when the transfer of powers took place. Not to mention also the inefficiencies that existed in the use of medicines, the 3,700 tons that went to the Sigre; also the health tourism, the 1 billion per year... And I stress again, ladies and gentlemen: you all know, there has been a pharmaceutical co-op in this country since 1969, and fortunately all Spaniards, and also Basques, are proud to say that there is no co-op for health care in our country, as there is in other neighbouring countries. See, in countries such as Austria, Belgium, Finland, Germany, Norway, Sweden, Ireland, Greece, Portugal and France, primary care is paid for hospital care, medical care, even some also for emergencies. I have told you, in France, one euro for going to the doctor, for taking a laboratory test, for an X-ray or a medical transport. In Belgium, from one to 6.5 euros for going to the doctor. And the rate of hospitalization in Austria is ten euros. Look, the results of the measures promoted by the People's Party, precisely to ensure the sustainability of the National Health System, have enabled good results, savings of 6,621 million euros. And these are data, ladies and gentlemen. You have questioned a system, some measures, but you have not told me any results of those measures! I will give them to you: 6,621 million euros between July 2012 and December 2016. These savings have enabled therapeutic innovations in new treatments to treat cancer, or to treat hepatitis C as well. The decline of the pharmaceutical industry's debt (Mr.Uria, I thought something of this knew), from 6.4 billion euros from 2012 to 1.5 billion euros in 2016. Reduction of payment delay days from 525 days in 2011 to 95 days currently. The decrease of 14.4% in pharmaceutical expenditure on prescription bills in pharmacy offices. Increased consumption of generic medicines. The centralized purchase of vaccines. These are all measures that have been promoted by the People's Party and that have made savings possible, and these savings have allowed citizens to have improved their health treatments! Look, thanks to all these measures, Spain and our National Health System continue to lead the ranking as a national health system. We are a model, we are first in the field of donation and transplantation. And I think that has to be a pride. And finally, Madam President, the Basque Government, yes, filed an appeal, but it is that the courts endorsed the measures in relation to the new criteria of the pharmaceutical copayo indicated in the royal decree. I know Patxi López was filing an appeal, but I also know that Mr. Bengoa, when asked about these issues – and he was a counselor with the Socialist Party – said that he was a supporter of the co-sponsorship in Osakidetza, depending on the income of the patients. And Mr. Bengoa also told us in an interview that the decision had to be national, and that high-income pensioners must pay for the drugs. "I'm talking about ensuring progressive, just like in fiscal policies," said Mr. Bengoa while Mr. Patxi Lopez...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u66	Thank you, Mrs Garrido...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u67	... I was going to file the appeal. And finally, Madam President, [[Berber]] , serious governments, of course...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u68	That's enough...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u69	... They are the ones who take action and address the challenges we face. And then it would have been interesting if Mr Urkullu, to address the demographic challenge, had attended the conference of presidents, which was one of the issues that was addressed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u70	Thank you, Mrs Garrido... Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote EH Collect, together with Podemos, Eukal Socialists, and the middle-line correction that the Eunciators have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes given are 75; the supporters are 66; the opponents are 9; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 0.0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u71	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Five point in theme list: "The same proposal as the Parlamentary People of Euscal, as the Parlamentarian Society did, concerning the activity of the Amalatians, of foresight, and a plan of observation. Discipline and final resolution. This is the turn of the party that made the proposal, Mrs. lópez de ocarariz, yours is to introduce and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, for years now this House and the groups we are represented in it have been expressing concern about the situation we are suffering from the use of asbestos, between the 1960s and 1990s mainly, which has left us with a very important problem. On the one hand, and mainly, the people affected because they worked with asbestos, because they inhaled asbestos, because they lived in environments with asbestos in the air, because they were familiar, or simply because they washed the clothes of these workers. On the other hand, asbestos is found in many constructions, in many spaces, in many industrial soils with certain activities, in pipes, in water pipes that have asbestos elements. And this is a very serious problem, because asbestos is toxic only when it is manipulated, when it is cut, when it is brushed, but asbestos is not destroyed, it is impossible or very difficult to destroy it. So, asbestos is there. We have a load of toxicity that if you don't touch, if you don't alter, it doesn't produce toxicity. The problem is, we don't know where he is. We can sense it, but we have to investigate. In this House we have worked on a paper focusing mainly on how to compensate the people concerned, the workers who have been exposed to asbestos and who have become ill. And it was considered to follow the model of other European countries, the creation of a compensation fund; a fund that serves to compensate those affected, in part, for the damage suffered by exposure to asbestos and the damage caused by the consequences that has left many of them. This initiative is in line, already in Congress, and we hope that it will continue its course, its timely debate, and that it will conclude with a positive proposal to compensate for those effects that have caused those exposed to asbestos. This isn't the end of our work. Since the Association of Affected by Amianto, other important aspects of concern to them have already been presented to us on different occasions. One of them is non-compliance with the asbestos law, which is not enforced in most of our municipalities. Only four municipalities have made the map of asbestos, of the 251: Portugalete, Hernani, Ordizia and Urretxu. There are others who are doing it. They are in the process, for example, Llodio or San Sebastián. Something that has already been called for in this House unanimously in May 2002. In 2002, this House has already spoken unanimously in favour of all municipalities having an asbestos map. And look how we are: four municipalities, and others in development. The City Council of San Sebastián, as I tell you, agreed a year ago to start work on the asbestos map. It is very important to have the most complete information; as I told you, this tool of maps is very important, because we can appreciate where asbestos is located, and we can act preventively. Not as it is happening for example in the polysports of San Sebastián, of Altza, who have begun to make a new one and have suddenly found that at the base of that building there was in its day an industry that left traces of asbestos, and now they have an important problem. If it had previously been known that there was such a question, the proceedings would probably have been approached differently. Therefore, it is very important to have the maps. Why is it so important, as I told you? Basically because asbestos is in many materials related to building, which was legal at the time and which, later in 2001 in Spain (in the rest of Europe some time before) ceased to be legal. In houses, in pavilions, in factories, in pipes, in uralites, in insulators, asbestos is there, it does not lose strength, and that when it moves it will be toxic again. Therefore, it is latent, and that is a problem that, if we do not remove it, will remain there permanently. The European Union in a 2013 report said that the goal was to make Europe asbestos-free by 2032. We have an important job to do if we are to achieve that goal. Therefore, as I said to you, we want to promote or collaborate with the municipalities, that the Government collaborates with the municipalities in the realization of these maps. The information in this case can save many people. Many people can save their lives; others can avoid the effects of toxicity and poor health caused by asbestos. What we asked in our proposal, as in the previous parliamentary term, was for the Basque Government to draw up a care plan for those affected by asbestos. In his day this House told us no. In this legislature we have resubmitted it, and we have seen a possibility, that the Government opens up a space to make policies to reduce the volume, or at least take measures to make in this case the maps of asbestos, whether Osalan or the Government cooperate. Because, as I was telling you, there are municipalities that are currently preparing maps, and the truth is that they don't have the collaboration they'd like. And proof of this are, for example, some agreements that have been made by the City Council of San Sebastián. He has agreed to make a commission of the members of the corporation to follow up on the asbestos-free work of this space of the Altza sportsmanship. And I can't imagine the councilman of a city council transferring the information. In other words, there must be technical teams that really endorse the work being done; there must be municipal technical teams, or training municipal technicians on what the protocols are going to be carried out, and transfer these measures that are being developed to give tranquility to the corporation, the inhabitants and the municipalities. Here's a very important job to develop. On the one hand, the drawing up of maps of the municipalities, and on the other hand training and information. The San Sebastián City Council agreed, among other things, that the City Council should implement programmes to raise public awareness of the desirability of eliminating asbestos and the guidelines to be followed. I believe that there are many municipalities that are not in a position to do this; that this must be done by the Government; that it must be Osalan who advises the municipalities, that it must be Osalan who does these awareness campaigns. That's what common sense tells us, it's the major deficit we see in the city halls in dealing with the development of this..., making these maps. That the law also obliges them, that if they are not done it is because of the difficulty they entail, and because they are tools that cost a lot of money and not all the municipalities have the financial availability to deal with them. We have therefore agreed with the amendments tabled by the group that supports the Government mainly, where we call on the Government, on the one hand, to conduct training courses, to intensify training courses for technicians, and to intensify information and prevention campaigns on exposure of workers to asbestos. This goes into the first point. And on the other hand we said Osalan's advice to the municipalities in developing the work of the maps. We believe that it is an agreement of minimums, that we are at the beginning of this intense collaboration of the Government with the municipalities and with the Basque society, to establish those tools that favor that has been less and less affected by asbestos, which is, in short, the objective that the association of the affected has transferred to us, as must be the objective of a responsible administration. And that collaboration so far has not borne all the fruits that were expected, which on the other hand were bound by law. And we trust that at this beginning of Osalan's collaboration with the municipalities we will continue to progress progressively in the development of measures that will favor those affected by asbestos.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u73	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u74	Good morning. Thank you. First of all, I must say that it seems to us that today too we are going to lose a very good opportunity to establish or mark policies for the Government on an issue that is very important and very serious, which is the issue of asbestos. I think we're gonna miss a big chance. We had tabled an amendment in its entirety because it seemed to us that the proposal put forward by the People's Party was insufficient and not very concrete. I don't say anything specific because I was talking exclusively about a plan for asbestos victims. That is why I was also surprised in part by the speech by the People's Party, because in its initial proposal this plan was aimed at this issue, which is related to asbestos victims, and to us this seemed very important, but it seemed to us that today the debate had to be on asbestos-related policy in an integral way, not only on the issue of victims. In the face of an initiative that seemed insufficient and inconcrete to us, we are faced with an amendment to the whole of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, which really did what it did was to throw balloons out, to return to an issue that we in principle considered to be more or less overtaken, and to disregard the opportunity to raise what the nationalist and socialist groups consider, in this case, to be the guiding policies of the Government in relation to the issue of asbestos. And what you were doing was to table an amendment where this Parliament simply urged the Spanish Government to implement the compensation fund for asbestos victims. Man, we think we've already done this. It's just that we've done it too. I think it's very good! We were last week four groups in this House, you were with us there, and we precisely went to carry this in the best possible way, with a law already done. And it's also the second time. You had already taken her before in another legislature. Therefore, we did not understand that this opportunity should not be taken advantage of and that balloons should be thrown out, proposing something that was already done. And the final compromise they propose to us is true that leaves out that part, that we would also not have had a problem with calling again on the Spanish Government, if in addition to the GNP that had left here today, measures had been introduced to ask what the Basque Government wants to do or what we think it should do about the general policy towards asbestos... We would have had no problem supporting it, but it is not just that issue. That remains out of the way, but the compromise that they are proposing, in my opinion, or in our opinion, remains at the end even below the initial initiative of the People's Party. Because you proposed a plan, and I say that for us it was insufficient, because it was only addressed to the victims of asbestos, but now it is not even a plan. It is to urge that there be more – I don't know what the wording has been –..., that there be more dissemination about this problem (well, it seems good to us, but this is a very logical thing), and that Osalan (I am not very clear whether it is Osalan who should collaborate with this) collaborate with the municipalities in the creation of the asbestos map. Our initiative also included the issue of asbestos map. I am glad that you have taken advantage of it to include it, but I am not sure that the solution is simply that Osalan can help the municipalities, because the problem of the municipalities in carrying out this plan goes far beyond what Osalan can help them. We were presenting an amendment which, as I say, intended to set some lines of work for the Government, because we think that there are already enough work done to be able to do so, both that which this Parliament has done in a speech in the previous legislature and that which the social partners have done, both the association of victims and some trade unions, which have done very, very rigorous work on this issue. And, therefore, we believe that we need to address this issue in an integral way. I believe that three major areas that we have to touch on, or that the Government has to touch on when it decides to address this issue in a comprehensive manner. One is that of the victims, it is true, those affected by asbestos; another is that of the asbestos itself, which you have mentioned in your intervention but which was not in your original initiative, and another is that of those responsible, of which we normally never talk. And I will start with the latter, that of those responsible, because it is true that the greatest responsibility lies in the institutions, and that is why we have also gone, with this proposal of law, to ask the Government of the State for responsibilities, but it is no less true that companies also have their degree of responsibility, because from 1960 to 1990..., the consequences of this material were already known in the 1970s. The companies knew, even if it was legal, and the companies used it because it was profitable. And the workers were the ones who were going to work without knowing for many years how harmful this material was to their health. But companies did know. And someone will be able to grasp that it was legal, but it is also that companies have responsibility, because they also failed to comply with the legality in the field of occupational risk prevention. And in particular I am going to look at the obligation of companies, since the year 85, to register workers who were in contact with asbestos before the labour authority. This was breached by most companies. Very few companies registered workers who were exposed to asbestos, and in addition the companies that registered them did not register all workers, they only registered a part of them. This made it very difficult and has continued to hinder the detection and recognition of these diseases as professionals. And in addition, companies, mutuals and corporate doctors have previously collaborated in not recognizing as occupational diseases a lot of cancer diseases that were. In fact, we have a very low degree of recognition. Just by comparison, in Germany 14% of cancer diseases are recognised as occupational diseases; here, in the whole of the state and in Euskadi, we do not reach 1%. And this isn't random. This is because there has been a deliberate policy on the part of companies not to recognize them as occupational diseases. The next point, in addition to that of those responsible, would be that of the victims, which has been mentioned here. We think that when this policy is developed we cannot remain alone in the economic compensation of victims with compensation funds, etc. The main problem faced by victims is that they are not recognized that their diseases come from asbestos, both in professionals and in some examples, from people who have not been exposed to asbestos in the field of work. In the professionals there are some very flagrant things. In other words, mesothelioma is a disease that is produced exclusively by inhalation of asbestos, and even so, workers have a lot of problems to be recognized as a professional disease. Imagine the problems that have those who have other types of cancers that can also be produced by other things that are not asbestos. And so, what can be said by people who have not acquired these diseases at work? And the third point – because I'm running out of time – is actually that of asbestos itself, that of asbestos that's still there. And I'm not going to extend, because I don't have time and because something has been said. Asbestos is still there, and this Parliament, it is true, has already approved the issue of asbestos maps fifteen years ago, and the municipalities have not done so because it is very difficult for them. And, therefore, we included this in our amendment, because we believe that the Basque Government has to get wet in this and that it has to take the necessary measures. And to say that Osalan advises them, really, is not enough. I don't know how Osalan is going to face this, because it's not enough. Much more is needed, and a comprehensive plan is needed. Two more issues that we included, quickly. The involvement of the social partners, which was not included in the other proposals. We do not propose this as the mantra of the left that you always have social agents, etc., etc. (which also, I have no problem). No, no, It's just that we have a lot of advantage in this matter. I have been listening for many years to a fellow trade unionist, Jesus Uzkudun, talking about this issue, and they and the victims' association are carrying out rigorous work, done for many years, and that is why I believe that to address this issue we have to rely on them. And the last point that we included was not the creation of an autonomous fund, but that we were studying in that plan the possible creation of an autonomous fund. Because we're not going to sing victory with the state fund until it's approved, and neither do we know how much coverage that state fund will finally have. Because the law knows how it got in there, but we don't know how it's going to come out, and therefore it seemed interesting that we would also do that study. And, to conclude, I want to say that the proposal that has been negotiated seems to us very, very poor. It's very difficult for someone to stand against it, okay, but it's very, very poor. And that the problem of asbestos is a very serious problem and must be addressed seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u75	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. The representative of the EH team, Mrs. Blanco, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u76	Thanks again, ma'am. At this time, the just proposal given by the Populian is to make an exercise for the Amanias, and a plan of foresight, and of observation. So just the same initiative he introduced us a year ago and the other parliamentary groups are the same, too. There is an exception: In this legislation we count together with the new view of Podemos. Last week, yes, we had been in Madrid to use the legal equipment for the great courts of State to present the production of affluence for the victims of the amanatto; Let us try the second time something positive. But that's done, ladies and gentlemen, and we have to stop at the carnival until we have the chance to discuss Madrid. There's a lot of work on it, but the ball's on the roof of Madrid now, in the field of Madrid. That doesn't mean that the game is over, the game is played again at home this time, and we've always said that the responsibilities should be distributed. And we say shared responsibilities or tasks because we know that at home we also have to mark the steps to become an asbestos-free country. And the fault that we still live with asbestos is not this government, nor any other Basque government. It is the fault of those who allowed it, and they were also enriched with knowledge that they were putting the health of workers at risk. That is why, from this Parliament, we have asked for compensation. But let us not forget that, unfortunately, we still have asbestos here, we still have contaminated floors and buildings, and the worst is that we still have people who are sick by asbestos, both diagnosed and undiagnosed. And that part we think it does. There are several municipalities (they have already been appointed) of Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa that have started working on ordinances, plans, protocols for asbestos removal... Some even have their own asbestos maps. But everyone is doing it in their own way; that is why we believe it would be advisable for all of this to be protocolized by this Government. Today, as usual, you can't forget the patients, ladies and gentlemen, those who are now and will show up. A lot more damage than we know today, fighting every day to get a professional disease reconnaissance. Those who fight for the absolute inability due to the independence of the retired labourers, and demand the claim of compensation, and they do all this by means of their means. If we want to be honest, we must admit that, besides this popular project, we have accomplished but little. On the other hand, we can do a lot about this investigation in EAE. Last week in Madrid the importance of the investigation had been mentioned by a injured man, and at that moment my head came to me the project of the scholarship of Osalan and the study which had begun in its time. We had a hand there, and unfortunately the project is gone. It was 45,000 euros that Osalan allocated to the Onkologikoa Foundation for a research project in the field of occupational risk prevention, in particular for a research called "New tools applicable to the study of the population exposed to asbestos in the CAPV" (by the way, a project recognized and endorsed by other institutes). And you never knew about that again. It is therefore clear that this Government has not even committed itself to completing the projects it has initiated. All these issues should be taken up again, promoted and planned, because asbestos, as we have said, lives with us and with us. Now it's our problem, too. EH Bildu has tabled an amendment to the whole, where Mrs López de Ocariz's proposal was largely taken up. The only difference is that we were framing her inside the Basque asbestos institute. We believe that the creation of this new institute is necessary, and it is not our occurrence: I recall that the opinion of the presentation also reflects it. We think that this high school ought to control records and care about how the amanyote and ideology are installed; for example, it would have to be a model center that would collect the syllogics to do the controls. Seeing now the compromise amendment that has been signed, poor, yes, loose, very loose we would say, very loose... Information and prevention campaigns, and Osalan's advice to the municipalities. Well, it will certainly be necessary, but, of course, the demand for the original proposal and the other two amendments to the whole that had been considerably reduced. Because we're talking about information campaigns, but we don't know where the plan is or where the repair is. That's a first step? Well, okay, it's gonna be a first step, but as we go at this rate, at these short steps, in 2030, I don't know what we'll have achieved. However, I would remind Mrs López de Ocariz that when they are ready to reach an agreement with this group..., we shall keep the amendment to the whole of it, because we will certainly have an opportunity to reach better agreements than these. Obviously, we cannot vote against it, no one can vote against this agreement, but very little will be achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Basque Socialists represent the group, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u78	Thank you, President. At the plenary session on 9 February this year, we re-adopted the proposal for a law on the compensation fund for victims of asbestos through the urgent and single reading procedure. And, as we all know, it was because of a mistake made in the Congress of Deputies, which rejected the initiative in the Bureau of Congress because they considered it could affect this year's general budgets in Spain. That is why we corrected the wording of the second final provision of our legislative initiative, so that, if there was any doubt yet in its wording, it could not be susceptible to misinterpretation. And then it was agreed in Parliament's Bureau that, at the request of the asbestos-affected victims' associations in Euskadi, this initiative should be presented directly by a representative of the different parliamentary groups in the House, so that this initiative carried out in this Parliament could be made much more visible. An important initiative, which was also presented at the Congress of Deputies on 15 March. And then we were able to have a joint meeting with representatives of all the groups in the Congress of Deputies, to explain to everyone more clearly that this legislative initiative did not actually have any impact on this year's General State Budgets in any case, to see if that would allow it to enter the Congress of Deputies and to see the light of this very important initiative for asbestos victims. In the final report of the presentation, on the creation of the compensation fund for victims affected by exposure to asbestos, it was reflected in its conclusions, after its discussion during the ninth and tenth legislatures, that it was necessary for that compensation fund to have a national scope, in addition to collecting twenty-one recommendations in its conclusions. And in recommendation 6 of the opinion of the presentation it is proposed that this compensation fund must be state rather than autonomous community. One of the reasons for defending this state character was that the use of the product was authorized by the State and recognized as a professional disease by Social Security, so some responsibility should be assumed by the system for the consequences arising from that situation. In addition, the difficulty of circumscribing it to a given area was emphasized. As a second reason, it was argued that if it does not have a state scope, inequalities can be created in the different autonomous communities. And a third reason was given, and it was said that there are also some companies at the state level and others not, so it would be most convenient to set up a state fund with funds from social security and mutual funds. It will be necessary to define its funding, but that no longer corresponds to the work of this House, but it will have to be the Congress of Deputies that ultimately defines how this compensation fund can be nurtured. It is important to bear in mind that we are faced with a system of social security distribution; that is, we all contribute so that we all receive benefits, whether contributory or non-contributory, and it is difficult to break it down by autonomous community. That is why it is logical that this compensation fund should be state and covered by the Social Security Act, and solidarity contributions are important, even if the fund can be compensated later in court, even if it takes time, with those companies that have caused the damage. If in our own conclusions we pointed out that this fund had to have a national scope, I do not understand that in the initiative put forward by Elkarrekin We can, Mr Hernández, you refer to the proposal to create a compensation fund at the level of the autonomous community. Has your group not come with the rest of the groups to Madrid to request the creation of this compensation fund at national level on 15 March? Wine? Then it's not congruent. You have to be..., you were talking about seriousness in your exhibition, and I tell you that you have to be serious and consistent with what we say and what we do. And it is not consistent to present the defence of the compensation fund at the national level, and then in its amendment to the whole say and propose that a compensation fund be set up at the autonomous community level. He is then concerned about setting a timetable for the asbestos map, and I believe that setting dates in the timetable is not so necessary, because it is up to each city council to decide when it will be economically good for him. Because making these maps is an important cost, and they will freely decide when they can do it or not. That it would be convenient for them to be doing so little by little? Well, yes. But they also propose, in the compromise amendment to which I shall then refer, a series of measures to help them to achieve this. But do it when they think they can deal with it. The initiative that we discussed today was already presented, as we said, in the plenary on 10 February last year, and it was already collected there, a compromise amendment was adopted supported by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, where the Spanish Government was urged to set up this compensation fund at national level. In this initiative, the EH Bildu Group tabled an amendment to the whole identical one that it has presented today, calling on the Basque Government to set up the Basque Institute for Asbestos. Our parliamentary group does not agree with this initiative, because recommendation 11 of the opinion of the presentation refers to the establishment of a national institute for asbestos, first of all of a tripartite nature, which controls registers, health surveillance, control of inhaled asbestos, epidemiological studies, and finally the management of the compensation fund. That is to say, if the fund has not yet been established at national level, it is not, of course, even necessary that national asbestos institute, because there are still no compensations to be managed at State level. So what does the creation of a Basque asbestos institute come from, when we don't even have that compensation fund at national level? When this is created, such compensation will be approved at the national level, and it is logical that, if created, a national asbestos institute is established. But in his moment. However, monitoring of the health and control of asbestos in our autonomous community continues, because they have always done so, over the years, Osalan and the Labour Inspectorate. And if we talk about the benefit surcharge, it will not be the responsibility of this institute either, but it will be the responsibility of the National Social Security Institute, on a proposal from the Labour Inspectorate. It therefore makes no sense to create this Basque institute right now. But we have supported this compromise amendment, which contains a series of measures and steps to be taken within our autonomous community, regardless of the work they have to do and which we have already referred to the Congress of Deputies. One more step has been taken, and the Basque Government is urged to step up information and prevention campaigns on exposure of workers to asbestos. And this work will be done through Osalan and through the work carried out by the Labour Inspectorate, which also performs advisory functions and not only sanctions. Also, from Osalan it is advised to the municipalities that request it in the elaboration of asbestos maps in their municipalities. I think this is important, and it's that they're already doing it. The municipality that has wanted to approach Osalan for advice has received this advice, and this advice will be done in a direct and individualized manner. And now, through this amendment, you will be known to all who have that possibility, have that path. They have always had it, they had it open and they will continue to have it open after the adoption of this amendment, but we thought that more steps should be taken here. The steps that are collected I think are positive. You were concerned about the development of that map, but only focused on a calendar; we are concerned about the direct help to these municipalities, which when they decide to carry out the realization of that map can have the direct advice of Osalan and the guardianship carried out by Osalan, with all their experience, to help them to make all that asbestos map, which is nothing simple, which is quite complex. And then completed with those positive steps that can be taken in our autonomous community, which I believe are being collected and incorporated into the initiative and the compromise amendment that will be adopted today, with the support of the Basque Nationalist Party, the Socialist Party and the People's Group. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u79	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u80	Thank you, ma'am. Chief bureau, congressmen, good morning to all. 60th of the previous century. Until he was well in the '80s, the amania produced in a massive way and went to market. Besides the production and selling of product, it was almost a magical product, it was a perfect drug-solator, contrary to fire, hard and flexible. At first they didn't know the damages that his exposure could cause, his toxicity... The risk of its toxicity occurs when handling asbestos, so that it can be released into the environment, and its fibers can be inhaled and deposited inside the body. The body is unable to remove that fiber, and there is an evolution, during the latency period, towards the disease. Different types of injuries occur; some mortals, such as mesothelioma, which necessarily derives from exposure to asbestos, so we must look for that exposure in the working life of the person affected. Non-fatal but severe injuries, such as lung plaques, may also occur. Since the use of asbestos has been officially prohibited in the European Union in 2005, the only activity permitted to generate an exposure is the removal of asbestos already previously placed; removal by specifically authorised and registered companies. Despite the ban, and as has been said here today, it can continue to damage health, as there is still a great deal of material that contains it. The number of people affected is really high, and the estimate tells us that they will continue to increase until the 1930s. Undoubtedly, a change in reality in a very short period of time: from a miracle product used massively, to an extremely toxic product, with thousands of sick or latency people. A change in reality, a drastic change in the needs of those affected and affected, their families, the people in latent state..., the whole society, in short, that needs a response from the institutions. In short, I think we could basically ask ourselves two questions: what can be done in the field of asbestos, and what is actually being done. The first question, what can be done, the areas of action: prevention of exposure can be done, health surveillance can be done, and compensation can be made for those affected and affected. The second question, what is being done, what are the actions carried out in these areas in the final analysis. In the prevention of exposure, in broad terms, illegal withdrawals and uncontrolled discharges are being avoided; withdrawal procedures are used by licensed, registered companies, and transferred to controlled deposits. In health surveillance, the connection of health surveillance information systems for workers exposed to information in their medical history as citizens is already under development, leading to a more systematic knowledge of possible harm. Specific health tests are being carried out through the post-occupational surveillance plan to monitor the possible occurrence of exposure-related pathology. The file of workers exposed to asbestos is being managed and updated. As regards compensation, the case of asbestos is particularly complex. First, the latency time between exposure and disease onset is extraordinarily long. Secondly, there are a relatively high number of cases (about 20 per cent) that occur in people who have not been professionally exposed to asbestos, with environmental pollution being the cause of exposure, which in many cases does not have a defined culprit (in others). Thirdly, the number of people affected is relatively high. Therefore, in the case of those affected by asbestos, the procedures for the valuation and compensation of compensation systems are often inoperative, so that those affected and affected are obliged to appeal to the courts for redress. They only have to fight for damages against the company. In some cases there is no company to claim, in many others the affected cannot survive the long judicial process. Therefore, most of the states in our environment that have had the same levels of asbestos use and the same harmful impact on people have constituted specific compensation funds with the aim of compensating victims. The presentation by this Parliament, as has already been said, was designed to examine the possible creation of a fund of these characteristics. Its main conclusion is clear: the need to create this compensation fund in the State. On this issue there has been a substantial change in recent days; therefore, Mr Hernández, too, the change in our text. We had submitted a text on those dates, and today we support an agreement. It's substantially different. Why? Because at the time we were in another situation. What position were we in? We were in a situation of absolute darkness, because of the inconceivable decision of the Congressional Bureau not to admit to procedure the proposed law that was sent to it from this Parliament. This forced us to renew our commitment in this House, which we did. Subsequently, on 15 March (a very important day in the field of asbestos), on 15 March we went to register this legislative initiative in Congress. First, I would highlight the image of unity – let's put it this way – materialized in that van where we were going. And we not only recorded that initiative, but there was a subsequent meeting; a subsequent meeting at which were the representatives of the victims' associations, the spokespersons of the parliamentary groups in Congress, and our delegation, the delegation of the Basque Parliament. As a result of this meeting, I would mainly highlight three outcomes. First, recognition of victims in Congress itself. Secondly, the recognition in Congress, and by the representatives of Congress, of the work done in this Parliament during two legislatures. And, thirdly, an explicit commitment by the spokesmen in Congress – basically the one we were most interested in was the commitment of those who had members in the Bureau, but a unanimous commitment, or so I understood at least – to give impetus, process to the initiative. This is in the parliamentary sphere. On the same day, there was a question from the spokesman of our parliamentary group in Congress, Aitor Esteban, to the President of the Government on this issue, who was also able to get an answer from the Executive, who was willing to deal with this matter, to deal with it seriously (I gather part of his answer). All this in the field of compensation. The value of today's agreement. In my view, the areas of prevention and surveillance, which I have pointed out before, are improving in particular. This is, Mr Hernández, an integral approach: prevention, health surveillance, and compensation. It seems to me that you have used the scheme: victims, those responsible, asbestos. Basically it's the same scheme. In my opinion, a good deal. In my opinion, this is not a missed opportunity. In my opinion, a great advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u81	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Passing the responses, the USAPPopulare is the representative of the Basque Group. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u82	Elkarrekin's spokesman We can say to me, "You have lowered your demand." Yes! Because, look, we proposed a year ago in this House the elaboration of a plan of measures for asbestos-affected people, where we also talked – if you read the intervention – about measures affecting various departments: Work, Housing, Environment, Health. We were talking about those affected, the people, and all the components surrounding asbestos, the use of asbestos and the consequences that its use has had from different areas. The answer was no. There was no other objective than the compensation fund to be sent to Madrid. There were no eyes for anything else in this House. That was the reality. And we did not choose the figure of the plan for those affected because it occurred to us. It is that those affected in the previous government, in the government of the lehendakari Patxi López... the advice provided to those concerned was to draw up a plan. That is written, that has been told to us by those affected in the committee itself. We didn't make anything up. We have chosen a figure that had already been offered to those affected; therefore, we thought that choosing a figure that had already offered to those affected could have better acceptance. We weren't making anything up. That was the reality. And when we have come to this legislature we continue with the same interest, because here there are many things we can do, and if we want to say "Euskadi asbestos-free" we have an impressive job ahead of us. So, we're going to do something. Have we lowered our expectations? Yes, because continuing to insist on the plan, as we understand a global package of measures, was no, and we want to move forward. So, what are we gonna do? Simply cut the plan. And today we do two measures, and later we will present others. Because we're going to insist, we're insistent. We think it's necessary, and we're going to introduce it. And today we have two measures. One, I was told, "Intensifying information and prevention campaigns about workers' exposure to asbestos..., bah, it's something that's put everywhere." But it is that the technicians in this case tell us that by banning the use of certain materials the knowledge of the dangers is being lost, and that that is why we must insist on the formation, which is fundamental. Although it is also true that companies are obliged to do this training, and to insist on the training of their workers, it is true that sometimes there is some relaxation. And I didn't know that, but a technical person put a lot of emphasis on that need, because it's a way to prevent it. And we must also work on prevention, in addition to taking asbestos out of all the spaces where it is latent. Therefore, that is the reality with which we have faced. As for setting up an institute, we do not share the idea of creating more administrative structure. We think we need to look for tools where we can do everything you say we have to do, that we can do high school, with the tools we have, and I think we can do it. That a time has come, and once experience has come, is it considered opportune to do an institute? Well, I don't know, but I don't think it's time to expand structures, we have a lot of tools. And I focus on Osalan because I think Osalan can perform that set of functions and advise. It is very sad, as I was told at the City Hall of San Sebastián, to have to do here our protocols, our information systems, training, how to inform the inhabitants who are around that space... I think there has to be a coat, an important coat. Municipal technicians in some cases will have some training, the health prevention teams of the municipalities have the volume they have, and the capacity they have. I think it is very good that, first of all, the fact that it is mandatory to make asbestos maps in the municipalities is generalised, because we have to report how beneficial that is for the health of all citizens, of those we are and of those who visit us. Because earlier reports said that there had to be a certain exposure to be contaminated; today reports tell us that very little exposure can also be dangerous. Therefore, we are facing a very serious problem. Very serious. And, look, I'm almost out of importance for it to be a plan. Two measures today? Two measures today. Within a few months do we see the need for an evaluation of certain parameters? Then we'll introduce him! It's okay! We'll do it in pieces. But I think it is a step forward, because we come from a non that had no alternative, and we believe that moving on in a year to two measures that can be moved forward, because at least that seems to us to be moving forward. And that's who we are.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Together, Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u84	To start with somewhere, I would like to clarify that our group continues to support the creation of the state fund, and I believe that this is not at all inconsistent with considering the possibility of an autonomous fund. I think I've explained it before, and I'll try to explain it again. First, because we don't know how the initiative will end in Congress – I think I said it before – and secondly because I really don't think it's incompatible, and when one of the social actors who've worked most on this subject raised this possibility, in which they've been insisting for many years as well, it seemed to us to include it, because we don't know the coverage that the state fund is going to give when it's believed. In any case too, we, like you, when we made the amendment to the whole had not yet gone to Congress to carry the plan. And Mr Aiartza said that they tabled an amendment here, which they had to withdraw today when negotiating with the People's Party, because he had not yet gone to Congress. We in our initiative with the asbestos map theme do not, as you say, simply set dates or schedule, or set mandatory dates for the municipalities. On the contrary, what puts in our initiative – and you can read it, it is written – is to urge the Basque Government to cooperate in the implementation of those plans, of those asbestos maps. That is why we believe that if the Basque Government, which has more capacity than most of the municipalities, is involved, dates can indeed be set. Because we are talking about a law that this Parliament passed 15 years ago. So, fifteen years without it being made... I think they've given the data that two municipalities... That I believe that Saint Sebastian has not done so, because my comrades from the United Left and Equo there in the city council have insisted (the last time it was this month of March, they have again presented an initiative) that it be done. So, fifteen years I think it's enough time for us to say, "Hey, you have to set a few dates." But it is true that the municipalities have problems doing so. And that's why our amendment, and it didn't, and it doesn't, and it doesn't, the amendment that you make... Because, I insist, it seems good to me, it seems a step forward, but it does not seem to me the solution so that the municipalities can make that map. The solution is not that Osalan can simply advise them, because I believe their needs are much greater. We do not think that is enough prevention, surveillance and compensation, Mr Aiartza. We think that is necessary, we agree, of course (you said prevention, surveillance and compensation); I in my previous intervention have insisted a lot on the recognition of the origin of the disease... Yes, but that's not prevention and surveillance: it's detection and recognition. Because I have insisted a lot that there is a deliberate policy on the part of companies, and to look elsewhere on the part of the administration for a long time, on recognition, and that is why I was giving specific data that here there are only 1% of the cancer diseases recognized as professionals, while elsewhere in our environment are 14%, and I was insisting that this is why. That's why I think you need something else, and that's why I think your initiative is short. And that's why I said it seemed like a missed opportunity. Because besides, I'm sure you could have gone a lot further. I'm absolutely convinced. And that's why I don't share it with you... I do share with you that the proposal is a step forward, but, as Mrs Blanco has said – that I do not locate it... – it is a very small step. And with a very big problem, at this pace of pasitos, we will be very late. In any case, our group, as I have already said, considers the transaction to be completely inadequate. Nor would we have had any problem with including the subject of the institute, we think. We are not going to vote against the compromise because, indeed, as has been said here, it is very difficult to vote against such a simple and logical thing, but it seems very insufficient to us. What we are going to ask..., and to use this rostrum to take this issue very seriously and that the government does not appeal the sentences when it recognizes the victims. It is that, incidentally, also casually (the Congress with its colleagues..., the question I think was not casual, I imagine they had prepared it, and it seems very good to me), but casually before yesterday I read in a newspaper that the widow of a chapist who worked in the workshops of the Ertzaintza and who had been recognized as a victim, had been recognized the professional disease, the Government has resorted to it. Man, I don't think this is necessary either. Just that. My group will not vote against it, but we believe that the Government should go much further in developing a comprehensive policy on asbestos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u85	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. EH Collect must not speak, thank you... Basque Socialists, okay? Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u86	Well, Mr Hernández, I have commented and you know that the opinion of the paper has already studied during two legislatures whether there were reasons or arguments for creating such a fund at national or autonomous community level. There was a lot of debate for a few years, and the outcome of all that debate was reflected in the paper's opinion, which I invite you to read in depth, because all these arguments are well explained. So, from there, of course, talking now, in a proposal, about a compensation fund at the level of the autonomous community does not make any sense, because in the opinion of the presentation itself it was collected, for a number of reasons that I have also collected, and I have explained them in my first intervention, why I had to have a national and not an autonomous community. So right now it makes no sense to talk about that fund at the level of the autonomous community. And we have not withdrawn our amendment, but, of course, as we went to Madrid to present it at the Congress of Deputies, as you have pointed out, we thought that we could go further here too. And we have worked to move forward and step forward, and to put in another series of issues, as we have all made clear, to move forward. And in the case of the asbestos map it is good that all the municipalities, when they decide to carry it out and enter into its realization, have that guardianship and advice from Osalan, who also has a lot of experience in counseling and monitoring on asbestos exposures. With this they will be perfectly supported in all their doubts; they will have Osalan at their disposal in order to be able to help them. No plan is needed for that right now, to realize it. It is also, I have already said, that those who have asked for it are already advising, with which the only thing that will be achieved with this is that it is known, by the different municipalities, that they have that tool, that they have that possibility. And Osalan is also willing to do so, as he is also doing with those who have begun to ask him. In this respect, therefore, progress is being made in what is reflected in the compromise amendment. That's a step forward, not making a calendar. Is it that a timetable for what, if each city council has its own pace for economic issues? Obviously, when you want to do it, you can do it. And when they want to do it there they have Osalan to advise them, who have been working, both Osalan and the Labour Inspectorate, a long time in this area. Mrs López de Ocariz, I hope that in Madrid, of course, after the presentation of the initiative again, the legislative initiative that we have worked on and supported all the groups here will also get the support to enter the Congress of Deputies, and that this compensation fund can be created at national level. And then the Minister of Labour and Justice has already made it clear in the relevant committee that it was a concern, and there will be a control, on the part of the department, of occupational diseases, and among them also those derived from asbestos. I have stated, Mrs Blanco, that, obviously, Recommendation 11 was very clear and was initially talking about a national asbestos institute. I understand that it always gives you a little rash to talk about institutes at the national level and you always prefer to do an institute at the autonomous community level, but you will be with me in which it makes no sense. If compensation is to be recognised..., if we have applied for a fund at national level and are to be recognised at national level, if an institute is set up, that institute must have a national scope. It's obvious, and it's very clear in that sense. And why is it going to be created here? For what? For nothing? To spend money, so that he doesn't have those skills, and what can be done here is already doing Osalan, and is doing it by the Labour Inspectorate? Right now, there's no progress in creating that Basque institute! Don't move! We have Osalan, who can do perfectly all the measures we have said here today, and who can advise and take steps in that direction. When the compensation fund is created and we move forward, we'll see. But now for what? It just doesn't make any sense! That is why we are moving forward with the compromise amendment that we are going to support today, and that is why I believe it is positive and that it is taking steps forward in protecting, monitoring and controlling the risk of asbestos from exposed workers. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u87	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. In conclusion, the Eucaian patriots represent the group, the lord Adarz.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u88	Yes, with your permission, from the seat. Two questions, very briefly. Two issues. One technique, referring to something Mrs Sánchez has already said: we do not withdraw an amendment, but what we do is to transform our text by the circumstance I have commented on. And another, an essentially semantic issue, or, if you want, a schema. You talk about a scheme: victims, affected and affected (i.e. people); existing asbestos, second, and public and private responsibilities. Actually, we have no problem with that scheme, but the scheme we put forward is a prevention scheme, a health surveillance scheme, and a compensation scheme. For example: compensation requires determining responsibilities, both public and private, so when you refer to the scheme that we have used from our parliamentary group as a smaller scheme, I understand that it does not have to be so. It will depend on the depth of such prevention, the depth of such health surveillance, and the depth or quality of compensation. I have no doubt at all. In any case, a clear step forward with this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u89	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Now that the debate is over, we'll vote for the popular Euscala team, the Sociists of the Basque Sociists, and the middle-line correction that the Euncists have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 45; the opponents are 0; white is 0; 0; December 29.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-23.u90	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was two o'clock in the afternoon and thirty-three.
