ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "The question is, "The question is, the Unethical Itbar, the Counciers of the Society, made to the Chief of Security, about the process of mutual renewal of the Borders." Mr. Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u1	Mr. President, Mr. President, Mrs. President, Congressman, good morning to all of you. Last Friday, March 31, the Council of the Ministers of the Spanish Government admitted a new decree of law. By this means it's acknowledged that you call it a selection process for basic border-scale agents, needed to maintain the amount of the edge specified by the Security Committee, as it is recorded in the Gerica State. The State has introduced several kinds of means, which were more and more alarmingly affected by the process of the necessary renewal of the border, and which re-equivocally diminished the number of necessary borders. This number is indispensable to the requirements of the public efficiency and efficacy of the security required to offer to the Basque people. Since September 14, 2015, in which the State Advocate appealed to the OPE of the 25 promotion of Ertzaintza, we have spent many months, like the prophet Isaiah, crying out in the desert. We have denounced the unacceptable attack on Basque self-government, in addition to the breach of statutory legality and bilateral agreements adopted by the Security Board, which set the number of Ertzaintza agents at 8,000. There have been numerous public and private claims by the Lehendakari, the Basque Government and representatives of the Basque Nationalist Party, here and in Madrid, demanding something basic: respect for self-government, the withdrawal of resources, and the implementation of the agreements of the Security Board. We have called for respect for the integral police character of Ertzaintza, equal access to Europol and Interpol bases and full participation of Ertzaintza in the Counter-Terrorism and Organized Crime Intelligence Centre. The questions, urgent appeals, motions, non-law proposals, etc. that the Basque Nationalist Party has presented in Congress and in the Senate demanding respect have been repeated. The answer received, ladies and gentlemen, has always been the same: No. Not in the votes, not in the negotiations, not in the dialogue. The demands of Basque institutions have been continually ignored. They were alleged to be impossible to accept, even to claim that they violated the law. And it turns out that, from night to morning, for example, what on October 25, 2015 was completely impossible for the People's Party, is resolved in a simple administrative act on March 31st in the Council of Ministers. And just yesterday, for greater abundance, Mr Rajoy went even further, and expressed in the Congress of Deputies his willingness to strengthen the role of Ertzaintza in the European Union. What happened? What has convinced Mr Rajoy of the desirability of recognizing the integral character of the Ertzaintza police force? They say, ladies and gentlemen, that faith moves mountains. I have to admit that to this day I have not been able to verify that extreme to which Matthew refers in his Gospel, but there is a proven reality during all these last years: the votes of the Basque Nationalist Party in Congress are able to move the most twisted wills when it comes to the fact that the Spanish government in turn does not have an absolute majority. And this should not be necessary for compliance with the Statute, which is law, but it is so. That's right. Therefore, Madam Counsellor, in the face of this new miracle, once the legal and political obstacles that the State has been maintaining have been overcome, I ask you what steps the Department of Security will take to advance the necessary generational renewal of the Ertzaintza. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u2	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. In reply, Mrs. Heeddia has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning. In answer to your question, Mr Iturrate, I would like once again to remind you that in the case of Ertzaintza we are not talking about a public offer of employment for the generation or to cover new places. Nor is it a question of resolving an interim problem. What is at stake is to maintain the number of officers who were agreed on by the Security Board to adequately respond to the powers conferred by the Statute of Gernika on Ertzaintza as an integral police officer of Euskadi. In this sense, with the royal decree adopted in the Council of Ministers last Friday we return to normality. Normality that was altered from the same time that the Government of Spain filed the first appeal against the twenty-fourth promotion. Normality that will allow us to return to the planned planning for the generational renewal of the Ertzaintza. Only in the first three months of this year have 98 people already retired, and 125 more have requested, have reported that they plan to retire this same year. The average age of the staff is already forty-eight years. It is therefore inevitable to assume this reality, to plan a responsible exit, an orderly exit. Aware also that there are data that can be varied, today the forecast with which we work is that more than 1,300 people will retire throughout this legislature. We are below, well below the number of agents agreed upon in the Security Board, currently 7,640, including in this ratio the 250 people in promotion 25 who are currently in practice. Aspirants who, according to the agreement reached now, will be able to join the Ertzaintza as career officials this same year, in September. By the time they do, they will have passed twenty - nine months since the day they signed up for the call. And in the best of cases this period will be of more than thirty-eight months for those who are registered and registered in the call for promotion number 26. And this didn't make sense, it didn't make any sense. There was no point in vetoing in the short term the number of agents needed to exercise the competences assumed and to offer the services demanded by Basque society. Nor was there any point in breaking the principle of bilaterality that must be governed by the agreements of the Security Board. After the reconsideration of the Government of Spain, the lost time must be recovered. After the first selection test, scheduled to be held in principle on 20 May, promotion 26 may start its training at the beginning of October. In response to the real needs of Ertzaintza itself, and in response to the needs and training capacities of the academy, we hope that by the end of the year we can even call for a new promotion, which will not be less than 300 people. And it is expected that they will access their training period at the academy in the second half of 2018. And this pace is what we will have to maintain over the next few years in the planning of generational renewal of the Ertzaintza. Today, fortunately, we're regaining the expected planning, and no doubt this plan will require a full-year-old performance, a successful development of the Border's production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u4	Thank you, chief physician. Second point on the subject list: "To ask you, Mine of the Kortah, the parliamentary member of the Combats, made to the Chief of Empedugus and Polic Society, the revenues which the chief physician of Empedugues and Society has published to secure the revenues of the revenues over the rental measures." Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u5	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislative class, Chief of the Artola generouss. Good morning. The chief physician of the Imperial and Police Society announced the new measures for improving and increasing the management system of incomes in the past week, in a press conference. The use of the digital fingerprint, a group of frauds, a protocol against attacks, the coordinations with the edge and the police and the intention of co-ordination with the social faith. Some of them, it must be said, had been proposed by M. Marotus in the former law, and then the negative of the groups which now sustain the Government, was found to be stigmatized by the benefiters. But the government, in the honey of the agreement with the budgets which it has acquired with the popular party, now makes these measures the flag of efficacy and control. Instead of placing focus in suitable terms of discussion about the RGI, the preview of the department puts focus on a fraud that does not reach %1. Compliing the improvement of the system, today, Mrs. Artola generous, please ask if the fraud is of %1, which is based on objective and technical data to justify the proportional proportions of the measures announced in your section.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. I'm sure the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u7	President, head of the board, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. Mrs Kortajarena, the main objective of the measures I announced at the press conference was to improve the management of income-guarantee income and to modernise Lanbide. To detail, I have asked for it and I will be appearing next Monday at the Social Services Commission. The measures are not intended solely for the control of fraud. All of our initiatives aim at agile and effective management for citizens and for those who work day-to-day in the care of people. The objectives of these first measures, which we are going to implement, and more, new ones, which we are going to present, are in three areas: the first is internal, improving the management, control and information systems; the second is aimed at the recipients of the benefit, speeding up the resolutions; and thirdly, and in relation to citizenship in general, transferring true information that pursues the understanding of the model and its positive effects in today's society. These measures go far beyond simple fraud control, as their main objective is to improve the management of Lanbide and income guarantee income. The measures we are implementing are aimed at optimizing the work in the offices, promoting greater coordination with other administrations, speeding up processing and improving the working conditions of staff. According to your question, Mrs Kortajarena, it seems that the improvements in the service only pursue cases of fraud, and that is not true. I listed all of them, over ten exactly, and most of them refer to service improvements. I insist, the GIR for this Government, as it has demonstrated since its implementation, is necessary; it is a necessary tool to ensure social cohesion, to avoid poverty and to promote access to employment, avoiding situations of unemployment chronification. You said why Parliament has not been informed of these measures. Well, well, because we have to distinguish what are the technical management measures in Lanbide's internal processes and what has to be the serious and calm debate that we are doing in this House in relation to the Income Guarantee Act. Mrs Kortajarena, the GIR is necessary so that social imbalances do not arise in Basque society, and proof of this is that more than 132,000 people have benefited from this benefit, especially in situations of economic crisis and also in situations that we are gradually overcoming. Some have trivialized this improvement plan, focusing only on the detail of the digital footprint, when this is still simply the application of new technologies to improve attention and also in-service management. Today people identify by fingerprint within modern organizations and companies, and Lanbide is. And, Mrs Kortajarena, the measures announced are aimed only at improving the service, they are the right ones, and they are framed in the modernisation of Lanbide. Don't look for second readings, there aren't. The proposals that Mr Maroto has made are not the ones we have put forward. We have put forward improvements in management, so that all citizens who relate to Lanbide have an agile and effective way of managing the benefits and relations they have with this organisation. There's no other reason. It is the improvement of citizens' management in relation to what Lanbide is and what its object of work is.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u9	Señora Artola generous, revise believed los headlines de la rueda de pensa que el otro día. And we are also favorable to the application of the new technology, but these measures are highly applicable, and the interrogation also said, with cautious and firmness, that when applied to the existing collective stigmatized groups, the risk of increasing these stigmatizations increases. Because, Mrs. Artala wide, you mark the focus as if you were not pointing at anyone, but with the measures you have announced, you have sent a clear message to the community, and you have made it understand: that all the benefiters are unreliable and that they are cheats, and that they are dangerous, and that is enough. Basta ya de criginalic, Basta ya de compor a statuses como vagos y malantes. Es inaceptable que continete se esté hablando de statuses personas y poniendolas bajo sopecha. This Parliament gave you a very clear mandate on 15 December. It is up to you to lead the reform of the GIR, it is up to you to promote a social pact of broad consensus, but for that you have to listen. You have to listen to the recommendations of the Ararteko, you have to review all the complaints you have received in the last year, listen to the street, listen to the unions, listen to the social agents, listen to the people who are currently on hunger strike, to the EAPN, to REAS, to entities like Caritas, who are telling you very clearly, that they do not swallow. And I will tell you, Mrs Artolazabal, too, that you must stop and repair, and resume the right path in this area, which is nothing other than defending the rights of the most vulnerable people and groups. Because, Mrs Artolazabal, in case it has not been made clear to you, I will tell you that the women and men of Euskal Herria Bildu do not drink either. We're talking about dignity. We're talking about dignity. Where would we be, Miss Artola generous, without RGI? And where are we going with the restrictions you propose and the circumstances? Where are we going? Follow the road sheet here and let's get to work. And leave the headlines out of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. I'm happy to see you, ma'am. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u11	Mrs Kortajarena, of course I will not allow you to accuse us of stigmatising or criminalising any collective with the measures we have put in place. I will comment on it in the next committee, but of course those accusations are false and this Government is not going to allow them. We have been the leaders, the ones who have supported this income guarantee income, and certainly not...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Time is up. Third point in theme list: "You ask the question about Martíni, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the head of the Board of Education, about opening the process of Preinscription in certain compact schools." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, chief. In January the association of mothers and fathers EHIGE reported to the Department of Education and to the Educational Inspectorate that it had identified practices and situations that might not comply with the legislation on enrolment in several schools in Euskadi. In particular, several schools, such as Corazonistas, San Viator, Askartza, Vizcaya or El Regato, among others, announced on their websites periods of non-official pre-registration or registration, in which they offered families the possibility to fill out questionnaires with their data and those of their children outside the established channels. The decree regulating the admission of pupils to public and private schools in the Basque Country provides that the procedure for admission of pupils at each stage of education shall be common to all centres covered by this decree, as well as that admission procedures must be scrupulously respected by all of them. And, therefore, any different procedure or commitment acquired by the centre that may imply a reservation of a place previously does not comply with the established regulation. It will therefore have no effect. As it seems clear, this non-official pre-registration or enrolment does not appear to be covered by the regulations, and if the timetable is common and should be one and the same for both public and concerted schools, these practices should in principle not be covered by that timetable, nor should they correspond, as the decree says, to the scrupulous respect for it which the schools in question must observe. A department response specifies that if these practices were given the department would act. And I therefore ask whether these practices violate the law and violate the rights of girls and boys and their families, and whether the Department of Education has initiated any files in this school year. And, if so, what they have been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u14	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. I'm sure it's all yours, ma'am.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u15	President of the Parliament, President, chief of the Department, members of the legislature, good morning. 35/2008 Decrea, who regulates the procedure of accepting students in the public schools of the Basque Autonomy and private colleges under the treaty, it expresses in the article that every year, by the order of the head of the Board of Education, a common time must be established to present requests, and to fix the periods corresponding to the successive phases of procedure. Orders of December 2nd of 2016 to present requests, and sets a common emission calendar for the 2017-2018 learning. In the private schools of the first and second Education, as established in the year 17-18 year of Learning, petitions and certificates were introduced from January 30 to February 10th. The process of accepting students develops through an informal instrument which the Board of Education controls at all times. On dates set in order, and only on those dates, the informal application is open, or, if it does, for those requests to be included by the petitioners. It's the same informal instrument that makes calmments and offers lists of accepted and released, indicating the ratings in the sections fixed in the calm. Therefore there can be no demand of acceptance at other times than those dates. Technically, it's not possible. Any action outside of what has been explained will not be accepted in adjugated to be offered.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr Martínnezion, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u17	Thank you. As I said, these practices, which I think are known, which are on the websites, which say "unofficial pre-registrations", which are in several schools, and I don't think it's worth taking all the examples... What we are saying is true, that there is a computer application and that is done like this, but what we want to know, as they are concerted centres financed also with public funds, is what it means that there are concerted centres, all of them concerted, that they make these lists before official registration, what it means; whether the department has any idea or opinion about this subject, and whether this may violate equal access to public education. Because from that lack of respect, and from the problems we have in enrollment, which are not only these, many of the problems that we then have in Basque education, as they can be, and we say again, inequality in many cases in access and segregation. That is why we think... and at the moment I also take the opportunity to propose to the Department of Education, once again, that these practices should not be produced, that they should be done in a frank manner, and that further improvements should be made in this regard. Like, for example, a single registration office that guarantees equal opportunities, that all families receive information equally – because it is not the same as an information office as a registration office – and also an office that is transparent, for the sake of education, especially public education, and for the equal opportunities of all people in Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u18	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u19	It is well known that before the process of approval, and apart from the institutional campaign, many schools, both public and compact, throw out their advertising campaigns, their model of learning, their curriculumisation, the training of teachers, and the services offered to the users of power. Besides, they arrange the days of open doors for families to present their education project. So, it's an opportunity for every school, I'm a public man, I'm a private man, I'm supposed to consider and carry on with all my freedom, if that's how it is to be decided. The E.H.I.G.E.A. at the beginning of this performance a complaint came before the Chief Inspector, in the opinion of the Society, "about non-commissional proceedings" in both schools. When education had examined these two cases, it was certain that the publicity that appeared on those websites answered the orders of families who wanted to know the schools. It was clear that any preinscription was of no service at all, because the dates the Board of Education would be the ones that had established them for all schools. On 13 January, another letter from the same organization was received from the General Inspectorate, denouncing other centres that were carrying out similar practices. The Education Inspectorate analysed the advertising of the centres and found that it was similar to that of the other two cases. In the course of public education, both parties must be made clear. It is not possible to develop licenses on dates established in order, and many schools, both public and private, arrange the days of advertising campaigns and open doors for the purpose of their education, without any value or connexion of character, and without breach of the established legislation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Euscal Social Socialists, made to the Chief Environmental, Land Planet, and Housing Division, upon the decree of the subjective right of the housing." Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u21	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Counsellor, you have recently signed the order that initiates the process of drafting the decree that will definitively regulate how the subjective right of access to decent housing that established the Housing Act approved by this same Parliament in June 2015 will develop. You have a law to back up ikusten dugu's bat ikusten. Sozialetan eskibide screams bawls. Urrats honetan, beasts bazuetan bezala, beasts egon race sozialistak. Bide has ez to beat izan error, aspalditik hasitako bidea beda. A path that had its starting point also with the Basque socialists in the Government, when the then Justice Advisor, Idoia Mendia, set in motion, in collaboration with other departments (especially with the one you were running, as today), the Mortgage Mediation Office, an anti-discharge office that, while pioneering, was an example and mirror for other local and autonomous governments. Like the signing of the social pact for housing, a pact resulting from the consensus between about eighty public, social and private actors involved in housing, which allowed to guide the strategic lines and areas of action in this field. A pact whose main objectives, not to mention the ultimate purpose of creating a stable social framework, which promoted and facilitated the implementation of housing policy within consensual agreements, in order to satisfy the constitutional right of every citizen to enjoy decent and adequate housing, was also the implementation of policies that promoted the rental of housing. But that, however, did not put its point and end there either. That Basque Government, chaired by Patxi López, launched another project for citizen participation on the preliminary draft of the housing law, in which the opinions of more than 17,000 people were gathered, citizens who provided almost 200 proposals for improvement, of which 44% were included in the text. Today we are at the key moment in starting the drafting of the regulatory decree of what we consider to be the fundamental, basic, pillar of that law: the recognition of the subjective right of access to decent housing; an equal right to other already consolidated social rights, such as the right to education or to health. A right that results from agreement, dialogue and our capacity, from the ability we had last month to agree on the need to start that path towards a more equal society, with more opportunities and with more rights for our citizens, and that moreover, by express desire of the department itself led by you, Mr. Counsellor, and supported by the unanimity of this House, will once again have a participatory, plural process open to all citizens and social actors. For this reason, and in view of the beginning of the process of drafting the decree regulating the subjective right of access to housing, I ask you: What contents are you going to develop in the draft decree on the subjective right to housing that your department is developing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u22	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. I'm sure the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Andueza, indeed, last March 20, I signed the order to start the process of drafting the decree that will give effect to the right to housing. This decree will develop the following issues by regulation: object and means of satisfying the right to housing; requirements to be met by those who request it; the duration of this right and the obligations of those who enjoy it; the procedure for the recognition of the subjective right; the economic provision of housing, its nature, character and destination; the arrangements for the inspection, modification and termination of benefits; and, finally, the return of undue benefits. My department, as announced at the time of setting out the lines of action of the legislature, has made a commitment to develop this decree before the end of this year. It is not an easy or simple task, because we are talking about the essential core of the Housing Act, but we are going to address it, and in fact, as I said, we have already begun to do so. I also anticipate that our commitment is that the contents of this decree do not imply any reduction, in terms of requirements or amounts, of the rights currently recognized by the various regulations dealing with this issue. First of all out of conviction, and because this is the spirit of the Housing Law that socialists push in the government of the lehendakari Patxi López and then in this House in the last legislature. Secondly, because this has been approved by a large majority in this Parliament. Furthermore, we want the process of drafting this decree to be as open and participatory as possible. And I'm not just talking about participation and mandatory consultation with other administrations, or listening to associations representing groups of people directly affected. I'm talking about open participation to citizens in general. That is why from the Department of Housing we are going to promote an already usual practice in us, to launch a participatory process on the draft decree. A process that will be open to collectives, social actors and citizens in general, and that will be developed in parallel with the administrative procedure. And, as you mentioned in this rostrum, we have some experience in this. Finally, five years ago, as Housing Advisor, I received the UN award to our department in recognition of the participatory process we conducted for the drafting of the Housing Bill and other participatory processes linked to it, which effectively had a significant success and citizen collaboration, which allowed them to be incorporated into the Bill, and also into housing policies, many contributions from collectives, agents and citizens in general, who had opened the way to making such contributions. Our basic tool will be the new citizen participation website of the Basque Housing Observatory, which includes communication on social networks, which is about to start and that we want it to be an instrument not only of information and opinion, but also of active and real participation of citizens in public housing policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u24	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Five point in theme list: "To ask the question, Alfonso Alonso Aranegui Rausea, members of the Popula team made to the president about the reform of DSBE." Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u25	Good morning, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. I'm going to talk about the GIR, too. We have a system of social aid that is very developed, it has resources and a capacity for care that certainly very few can be allowed in Europe, and in that sense I believe it is the expression of solidarity. It also pays attention to many people with low incomes, because they have low pensions, or people who have not yet been able to get into work in Euskadi, surely because they do not have enough roots. And it also pays attention to people who have no other way of providing resources and therefore families who have no other income. I wanted to say this in the first place. I think it is reasonable that we have a mature and developed aid system, and I welcome it. Secondly, I also wanted to say that I share – and I understand that this is the vision that we have achieved – that the best social policy is employment, and that the goal in the legislature must be to continue to drive economic growth and try to translate that economic growth into social terms. And in social terms it's job creation. And in social terms it is also that those most disadvantaged groups, with the greatest difficulty of insertion, can also find access to work. And, therefore, our illusion, our longing and work is that the GIR heading is decreasing in the budget over the years. That will be indicative of the success of our policies or those that do not have our policies. And I take it that in that chapter, and as long as that vision is maintained, there will be enough support in the House to be able to push it forward. I listened to the counselor and saw her announcement as well, where she confirmed that they are going to address a reform of the GIR. The first measures which have been announced, and which will be explained in the House next week, are in principle in the right direction. Some coincide with issues that we had raised a long time ago and that were severely disqualified in their day, but I do not want to get in there today. It is true that there is a need for greater control of fraud, because the perception of fraud discredits aid for citizens, and that is a really existing and cross-cutting social concern, and that occurs in people of any ideology and sense of identity. It does not happen only to the people who are from the PP, although the People's Party has echoed more vehemently than this which is on the street. But I want to talk to you today about something else in relation to this issue, and make a request to you. You know that when they arrived at the Gipuzkoa Diputation, the PNV government, they had an electoral commitment to eliminate the AGI. It was a complementary aid that had put in place that deputy that distorted the requirements that we have put in place for the GIR system, since it lowered that requirement of years of registration, whose mission is to have a minimum of roots in the community in order to be able to enter the system, and that in the opinion of the Gipuzkoa deputy it produced an effect called essentially immigrant population. If that's what anyone from the PP says, they would have called him a racist. The thing is, they took it off. Well, your party's government at the City Hall of Vitoria has now put in an aid that is very similar to the AGI, which also distorts the RGI system. I think there has to be a certain homogeneity between territories, and a certain equality of rights. And the request I want to make to you and to the Councilwoman is that the new reform should effectively regulate the aid also provided by the other institutions, and that we should therefore go to a homogeneous system that does not distort the GIR and that does not then continue to fuel a social concern or rejection of a system of aid that we must all re-enlighten in this legislature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u26	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mr Alonso, I believe that, as you have rightly said, the Commissioner for Employment and Social Policy has already been sufficiently explicit in the answer to the second question raised on this agenda item today. I will insist that we draw up this structural reform in response to a commitment made both in the coalition agreement between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party and also in the government programme, which was also presented to this Parliament and is supported by the budgetary agreement. And I'm also interested in insisting on some things that I think need to be made clear. That the budget provides income guarantee income from the necessary resources; that the structural reform approach also responds to the non-legislative proposal that was passed in this House on 15 December, approved by all groups, and that the councillor and the Basque Government assume and undertake to present this structural reform on 15 May. The budget that we will adopt on Tuesday provides income guarantee income with more than 400 million euros. This figure doubles the amount allocated in 2008. We are committed to the Basque model of social policies, which is a benchmark in the state and which we should all be proud of. And I am grateful, Mr Alonso, for your approach to a system of which Euskadi has been a pioneer. The reflection on the structural reform of income guarantee income, so you also ask me, hinges on these pillars: a comprehensive, sustainable and effective proposal, which guarantees attention to the most needy; avoiding – as you also proposed – the chronification in the marginalization of the perceiving people, because indeed the bet has to be for more employment and of higher quality; and managing aid more effectively to avoid fraud as well, yes. With regard to the last request you made, we are going to propose structural reform with documentation, with rigour, with time, with realism, with resolve, because our aim is to reach the maximum possible consensus in this House and extend it also to the rest of the Basque administrations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u29	Thank you very much, Madam President. I've got eight seconds. I reiterate the request: do with the help of Urtaran what they did with AGI in Gipuzkoa. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u30	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Alonso, I repeat the answer: we will make the proposal for a comprehensive reform here in Parliament in the search for the greatest possible consensus in Parliament, and a consensus that is also extendable to the rest of the institutions. And I also insist that we are already proceeding to such a reflection with the aim, first, of reviewing the internal management procedure; second, with the improvement of coordination with the Treasury of Social Security; third, with Lanbide's greater customization to encourage employment inclusion; fourth, with the creation of a specific anti-fraud group and coordination with local police; and, fifth, with the implementation of the fingerprint-based recognition system, without stigmatisation, for all workers included. Therefore, it improves management. I insist that we do not start from scratch, that the system of income guarantee and social inclusion was born almost thirty years ago, which is the result of a broad consensus, which has been a pioneer in the State, which symbolizes the solidarity of the Basque people. And I think society is proud of the system and we are going to protect it (protecting it too by insisting on the whole Basque administration), and we are going to update it. We are going to work for excellence, and so the Basque Government has also self-imposed the objective of obtaining a quality certificate in the processing of income guarantee income. This is the best sign of our commitment to the continuous improvement of the service we have to offer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Interpology, Eva Lopez de Arriyabe, Saez de Maturuna EHGGGregated to the president, concerning the Minda trial of the Karera." Ms. Lopez de Rocky, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u33	Hello. Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Well, the idea of building an animal waste treatment plant is part of a real problem that occurred in the Carranza Valley, which occurs in the Carranza Valley. Although it's not just in Carranza, it's in many parts of the territory. There is a problem with purin and the number of concentrated cattle heads. But what at first was an attempt at a solution resulted, from the minute one, in a way of obtaining public money apart from whether the result was being achieved or not, apart from whether the plant was being made or not. From the first impulse to the project, everything was aimed at absolute control by those who would benefit from these subsidies received, so because of this action, in addition to losing for private benefit a significant amount of public money, the possibility of building the plant and of giving a solution to the already poor primary sector in Carranza was committed forever. With the indispensable collaboration of the then director of Agricultural Research of the Basque Government, Don Martin Ascacibar Gregorio, public money was obtained in different institutions: of the Government of the Kingdom of Spain, 4 million euros; of the Diputación Foral de Bizkaia, 2 million euros, and of the Basque Government 4, plus 3 in advance. We are talking about EUR 13.5 million, of which about 10 million were received, taking advantage of most of that money without having just begun the construction of the plant, which is in the same conditions as then. And in order to obtain that money, data were falsified that were incorporated into official files, thus obtaining an absolutely disproportionate funding for the work that we can see today and that which was finally carried out. They falsified from the beginning the cost of the project, the dates of realization, its completion, and with these data more than dubious, as little, many subsidies were obtained. The demands of the scholarship were applied in white, and accepted more quickly than the publication of the summons of the incluso-buy. A false bill was introduced, the defendants in court, as the judge's sentence was accepted, because of the work they didn't do, the training companies, the non-recorded materials, presented justifications, and the funk accepted them. And all that stuff was the principal research director of the New Year's ranching and ranching. This case points to what we have denounced over and over again in this House, and went on as well. The Basque Government must move from words to deeds. You have had among your leadership positions people who have supposedly diverted public money, but, far from demanding responsibilities, you have moved rather little I would say, we could even say that virtually nothing. Because they should take all possible legal action in the courts, in which we understand that private interest has prevailed in the public interest and in the persecution of those who have – as little – mismanaged public money. I think, we think they haven't done everything they can. The economic damage, of course, is already done. We rarely see a plot equal to this one to get so many millions of euros, moreover nothing more than three different administrations, so we have no choice but to demand force (as has been done so far, but from now on even more) against those responsible, who cannot be protected against this fraud with the direct involvement of public officials and even officials. This procedure has been lengthy, with countless processes still unfinished. There have been debates in this House where different agencies and administrations have participated, reports from the Basque Court of Public Accounts, competition proceedings, complaints from the City of Carranza, strong reports, active involvement in addition to the State Attorney's Office, the Prosecutor's Office, but the question is what the Basque Government has done in all these years. Right, something he has done: he has recorded a paper saying that he adheres to the open competition procedure. We understand that it was only necessary that they didn't do it! And there is little other writing to adhere to the criminal case opened parallel to the Balmasseda Court, following the imputation of the right-hand public official at that time of Mr. Ascacibar, whom they had defended until his imputation. Two writings. That's all. In short, facts more than serious, possibly even criminal, to which any administration would have acted using all the ways, which are many, within its reach, as they have done, and have shown us, the city council, the Government of Spain... Why hasn't it been in Redkong, public interest, transparency, and all the citizens to collect the money they lost, and demand responsibility for the responsible and responsible? That's the question. Meanwhile, we have seen how the course of different administrations has changed. The city council, as harmed, with its attitude in the different open judicial procedures and its initiatives, must be recognized, has managed to make the process now at the time it is. Both the competition administrator and the State Attorney, as well as the prosecutor, as well as the city council, have brought arguments, reports, writings..., investigated, asked, in order to be able to say that we are facing an alleged fraud, at least. In the light of the data, the State Advocate even joined the criminal case in the Balmasseda courts, a criminal case which is now also open. So the image that this Government, who disappeared in the trial until the last hour, has given is more than worrying. The truth is that we then fill our mouths by selling the fight against fraud and transparency, but when this fraud is committed within the administration, it is directed by a director, a political office, who decides the project, what project is being done, what grants are being requested, who is being granted; it is also the one who follows the signed agreement, when at the same time he is a member of the board of directors of the company to which the plant is awarded, and then he is also a CEO of Karrantzako Minda, the company that receives the grants, up to a few days before declaring himself a creditor's tender... It is a cluster of misconceptions, so seen and in the line in which they happen. Anyway, this isn't even a project that went wrong. It is a project without more objective than collecting all possible subsidies and directing them to certain companies. Certain companies that we all know who they were headed for. They're gonna apologize, but this doesn't look good. I wasn't painting well then either, but now it's getting worse. This cluster of misconceptions could not go well even if there had been a good will since minute one, which I also question. The question is whether it is normal for this Government, whether the minimum principles of transparency that are in this forum all the time have worked, and whether its passive attitude and renunciation of responsibility responds to the Government's commitment to citizenship. What less than asking for responsibilities, even in favour of the Government. We understand that they should undertake a thorough review of the mechanisms for granting and controlling grants, but, of course, they should investigate what has happened, and they should take all appropriate judicial action in the courts. It should be a priority in addition to this Government, first, to recover the missing money, and, of course, to invest it in giving a definitive solution to Carranza, the primary sector in Carranza and the treatment of purines. We know, we know, that the solution of these purines does not go through large plants or large pharaonic projects. It goes on to manage the purin in a coordinated way and, of course, supporting the primary sector, which I believe we have failed in this case. It no longer hangs, the characterization in the competition procedure can no longer stretch it. It's the only thing they've actually done. And, of course, it is not the only thing they have been able to do to recover the money, on the one hand, because they have not investigated, they have not participated in the trial, they have not been there questioning the witnesses. You have decided not to participate. But from the outside it seems as if they had agreed not to do so to avoid major evils, and I believe that, in any case, things are getting worse. We have to say they're in time, we're in time to appeal the sentence. You can appeal the judgment of the Mercantile Court, and you can prove us wrong. It has been proven that the bills were false, not only in the case of the indictment, but in the case of the defendants themselves, it has been expressly admitted that the bills were forged in the presence of different administrations, and that a few bills were presented twice before the different administrations. Since it cannot be otherwise, I will go ahead with your answer, when you say that you respect the sentence. He left a week ago, they declared the contest fortuitous, and we also respect it, but we certainly don't share it. In this demeanor, nothing has happened by chance. And they knew that before they started. We ask that the Basque Government bring the appeal, because it is in time, because it is on working days now to do so, but not only to defend the public interest and recover the missing money, but for all that the ruling says in relation to the Basque Government, and that the judge uses to exonerate in addition to responsibility those responsible for this great fiasco. It blames the Government for the decision to choose land that was finally known to be unfit for the plant; it testifies to the multitude of false invoices submitted, and that the Administration, on top of that, put no objection; it points to a lack of coordination within the Government itself, because it is incomprehensible not to demand the full reinstatement of the already famous Ikerketa 2006 subsidy, which was presented blank, and concludes by saying that it is not appropriate to combat administrative decisions in this jurisdiction. This is very serious, because this ruling merely certifies that the Government failed to comply with the regulations in the granting, control, payment and non-return requirements. By the way, it certifies each of the breaches listed by the Basque Court of Public Accounts in its conclusive report, well explained further. I'm done. What will the government do to recover the lost money after the Karrantzako Minda fiasco? And if you're going to follow in parallel in the proceedings, either of you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u34	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. In reply, Mr. Erkorek who's a member of the team has a word to say.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning. It is not for the first time that Madame Lopez de Rockye has been introduced in this legislation by enterprise. You said it right. In the past, there have been more than one in the law that has gone by, questions, interpenetrations, and even scenes of the departments, and I'd like to insist that there was a lot of things to be said about it from the point of view of fun. At that moment, the late head of Ekonomical and competitive developments had come to an end, and he gave all the explanations to be given from a melancholy point of view: what was the opinion, and above all the help and unreasoning return of those who were making merry at the moment. There have been other enterprises in this law. There have been questions, which have been the interpelation, as well as some actions which have been introduced and then withdrawn, and which have been introduced into the register, but which are still in the wallet, have not been brought here to defend themselves. Well, in all these undertakings, at least, when they have taken place, one thing has become clear: that they were all prior to the verdict you mentioned. In other words, there is a verdict given by the Court of Trade in the 2nd Division of Bilbo, which he pronounced a few days ago on the 28th of March. And, well, this verdict, in principle, puts us in front of a new situation. It is true that the sentence is still resurregable, there is still time enough to be able to estimate the means, but it is true that it has, in some measure, put all the questions of the past and the duty upon a new stage. You said you didn't like that verdict at all. In your written text, you say it clearly and clearly. You make a difference between quantum content and quantum content that I don't quite understand. You say that quantum content is indispensable, that in this case they are necessary, and that they are not considered. If I won't judge, I won't praise or applaud or even criticize him. I don't think I can give you an opinion on this at the moment, but you're free and you can criticize it with all your freedom. It's true that the verdict isn't of any importance, it's 75 folios, written in a very strict text, it's an argument. there may be one, but it is not of any consequence, they are examined one by one, by different parties, and all are either abandoned or rejected. One may or may not be in agreement with this judgment, but it cannot be said that it is not reasoned and motivesed. I see a great deal of justice daily, given in all jurisdictions, which I do not like. The review is, therefore, free from that point. I'll tell you one thing about this kind of competition. The funk process is a lot of funk, not just this one, it's not the only one. It often happens that corporations who have the scholarships are subsequently introduced into the competition, and that the practice of administration is generally a very satisfactory one. Why? As in this case, as well as in this case, a resource is to defend and utilize, as it must be, and to be able to do so, because it must be a complete knowledge of the management of the enterprise, and as a rule the administration of the administration, the administration of the administration, the administration of the revenues, has a searcheral relationship, and the knowledge that this quester gives it, is not enough to be able to know the whole management of it, and to appreciate whether it has really been guilty of it or not. As for the rest, it's been created by a series of conjecturings: In 2012 it was 48, 2013 at 70, because the crisis had placed a lot of corporations and a lot of competition. It would be physically impossible, in all the mechanical proceedings, to have an active and active activity, in order to reveal guilt in all cases. It would be physically impossible, and probably a lot of companies caused by economic crisis and we'd place a lot in the shade and a lot in the grouse. Well, I told you about a show earlier. In that appearance, on the 16th of June, 2015, the chief physician of Econnomical and competitive development showed a great deal of clarity in the administration, the steps given by this administration, the subsidies which are not returned and did not return, and which are not justified, what activities have been performed in order to recover them, what steps have been given. Already, it was clear that the Government's action since 2013 had been diligent and very rigorous in the handling of all the administrative procedures provided for in the law for the reintegration of the quantities satisfied and unwarranted in relation to this matter. All of them. And as a result of these administrative actions aimed at the recovery of these sums, of those aid granted, satisfied and unwarranted, today the Administration holds a credit of 3,2 million euros, part of which was in the competitive mass of the procedure to which you refer (approximately 1,5 million euros). The rest were not in that competition mass, but they were not because the Government did not ask for it. It was not because, when the competition procedure was initiated, the Administration was still conducting these procedures for the reinstatement of the amounts satisfied and not justified, and therefore did not meet the conditions for the presence and incorporation of such credits into the market. You have referred to the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors has indeed carried out proceedings. There is a audit report by the Basque Court of Public Accounts of May 2012, critical, obviously critical. There was a broad reference to him in the appearance I am referring to, and therefore I am not going to insist now on arguments that have already been made there, which are already in the Chamber's sitting papers. The Euskadi Court of Auditors referred the file to the Court of Auditors of the Kingdom for the purpose of the Court's possible assessment by the Trial Section of an accounting liability by scope. But the Court of Auditors of the Kingdom said that at that time the necessary conditions were not yet in place to deal with such a dossier, because there was still no real and effective economic injury. In other words, the procedures for reinstatement were being processed and, therefore, that effective damage, that necessary economic failure, which was essential for the identification of an accounting liability by scope, was not being done. The Court of Auditors' head is therefore pending, or at least open to this point, with a clear and explicit procedure by the Court of Auditors of the Kingdom. There's still a criminal route. You say, "The Basque government on the criminal track has done nothing." He has done what he has to do: he is personified in criminal proceedings, exactly as the rest of the perpetrators, and personified as injured. It is true that in the first phase of the procedure he acted, acting on behalf of a Government official, that as such an official is entitled to legal assistance from the Government when it comes to proceedings in which that person has acted as an official. But in an act in which he had been summoned to testify in the conception of a witness, and in the conception of a witness, as a witness, he had the support and representation and legal assistance of the Government. It was then revealed by the relevant judge, the investigating judge, who went from being a witness to being investigated, and from then on the defence of the Government was broken. But the Government is injured in this procedure, which is still at a preliminary stage, in previous proceedings, and of course holds a claim of EUR 3.2 million that it is going to demand until the end, and that it is going to bring all the necessary legal proceedings so that, in the event that the procedure is clearly concluded in a conviction, and the conviction carries a civil liability, the civil liability includes those EUR 3.2 million that are owed to the Government and that may cause economic damage to the Government's public purses. But to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u36	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Ms. Lopez de Rocky, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u37	Thanks again. I'm glad, I'm glad to hear it. The truth is that I am confident that they will act and that it will be resolved further. Anyway, I have the feeling – and I don't think it's an absolute feeling of my own – that it's been used in the primary sector. A primary sector that urgently needed to respond to a problem was used at the time, a problem that – I said earlier – is also happening now. And it served not only to not solve these problems, but to create a plot of companies, of interests, which is even difficult to understand. On the other hand, I am not going to go in and answer everything, but it remains to me to trust the Government, both in the competition procedure, which I trust you to appeal, and also in the criminal procedure, because you are already there. I trust that they will take all the steps, because in addition the elements that are judged both in one and the other, or that have been judged, are different. So, I'm confident that we'll finally see the truth. I'd ask for caution. It looks at the new projects that we have on the table now, with the same faces and in the same direction. It investigates large megaprojects that come out here to give solution to the waste, to give solution to the waste, and that then we find what we find. I also wanted to say – I pointed out here as quickly as possible – that with 13 million euros, almost 10 million euros, if in 2002-2003, when this started, all the purines in the territory had been well thought out. And I'm done. We hope that this will not be repeated again. I trust that this will not be repeated again, because this is a fiasco, it has been an absolute disappointment, because the intention could have been good, there was money on the table, and, of course, they have solved nothing. Please don't use the primary sector and its needs and its... it was going to say its dependence on all the public money it receives, so as not to respond to what we have to give. Let's use it well, manage it, and coordinate with everyone, because I think the two sides can win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u38	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe, I share with you the utmost respect for the primary sector. I know you're directly linked to him. I can assure you that I also come from the primary sector. Not of the agricultural world, but of the fishing world. I'm from Bermeo. And, look, in the end, to believe in the world of fishing it has always been said that you have to have a close relative who paid tribute to the sea with some life, right? My grandfather died at sea, and therefore I have an emotional, personal and direct connection also with the primary sector. Therefore, the utmost respect for me, and I am also aware that on the part of the adviser responsible for the area, which, of course, we are finally going to give to the primary sector beyond the weight it can have on Euskadi's GDP, in a society which is already economically highly industrialized. He deserves it. He has made a reference to the major projects on which to operate with caution. I share with you that caution is absolutely essential, it must guide the steps of the public administration when it faces not only large projects, but also small projects. But immediately afterwards, as an example, he cited some, such as waste and others, which may have elements in common with this one that we have in our hands. It has given me the feeling that, as a friend of mine's grandmother used to say, "what gives more yarn than soap, if everything is for clothes." You're playing a little bit with the confusion, and now, as it's all about clothes, let's talk about the yarn and soap as if they were the same. No, yarn and soap are for clothes, but they're completely different things. The waste has its things and the primary sector, so it has its... We are talking about facts that began in 2006. You have made many assessments about the decisions that were then made, the conditions under which they were adopted, which could surely have made alternative approaches more coherent, more robust... Of course, it is very easy to evaluate, from the height at which we are now, what was done or stopped then. I prefer not to go in and prosecute the performances of a decade ago. I prefer to take responsibility for what we have now. You have raised a question regarding what the Government is going to do to rescue that money, and I have assured you that, beyond the administrative action already carried out, which the Councilwoman gave ample account of in that appearance to which I have referred, of course, we will take firm action in the criminal field, which we will keep you informed of if you wish, in defence of the interests of the Government, which are already reflected in that personage. When the Court of First Instance and Balmasseda Instruction No. 1 offered us actions, something that happened a few months ago (this is the first time it offers us actions, and we have to wait for the judge to act before taking a step in that direction, unless it is the plaintiff; but the plaintiff is one, and it was no longer us), we impersonated ourselves immediately, and in the character we made our economic interest stand out. And immediately thereafter, by virtue of that conflict of interest to which I have previously referred, we declined the representation in court of a staff member who had requested it and who was, in principle, entitled to it. But since there was a conflict of interest, we renounced that defence in court, and now the defence of that official is brought by a private lawyer. From there, we are still at a preliminary stage, in previous proceedings, it is to be seen what investigations the judge faces in this field, but I can assure you that the Government will stand firm in defending the possible economic failure that may have occurred and that it can be credited throughout the procedure. And of course we will demand up to the last cent of euro that it can be credited, in the course of the procedure, that criminally defined and condemned actions have caused economic damage to the public archives of the Government or to the General Finance of the Autonomous Community. Make sure we're strong there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u40	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The seventh point on the theme list: The question is, "The members of the legislature of the Council, Leire Pinedo Bustamante EH, made to the President of the Council, concerning the question of the Parliament in the quadrangle." Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u41	Good morning. Good morning, everyone. The negotiation about the settlement of the coupa has recently arisen, and the only reason for solving the essential differences for ten years is this: The Spanish Government has a problem with the budget because PP has no absolute majority anymore. We know that, as the President himself said here, the mass of government is formed to examine the differences and solutions of the quapoe. In the words of the president, "se ha abituo la vía del diálol." But it's reality again that he's connected with the state budgets, that he's on the question of trying to agree that he's in an agreement with EAJk and PPk, that is to say, he's in conflict with parties, in secret negotiations. Euskal Herria Bilduk behin bath gehiagotan azpimarratu of the kupoa bezalako tamaina horrelako errornkei herri gisara weretzun behar zaiela, alderdikerietatik bear urrun. Lehendakari, zuk zeuk esan zenuen hemen: "Resolving this discrepancy, reaching an agreement, is a priority issue for the Basque Government. I would say it is also for all the political institutions of the country and for Basque society as a whole." Eta hor kokatzen dugu Legebiltzarran paper. In so far as the legislative is the representative of the Vicymai, Gipu, and the people of Abarah, we make it an active piece of paper for the purpose of supporting it in a word. That's why we want to know what you think about the legal role that you're supposed to be.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Pindo, I'm not joining the cause of this negotiation. I believe, as the President, that every year even during the preceding law, and even then, with the President of Spain, I have always discussed the negotiation of the quadriff, and that I always propose the necessity of the negotiation of the new law of the quapoe, and of being able to treat other powers of economic compact. But in answer to the question, I would tell you that the Parliament must have an active job in the defence of the concert and the coupe, and so we agreed to call the representatives of different institutions to protect the concert on October 14, 2015. And we asked for this and today I confirm it. We call the institutional, political, economic, and social operators responsible for the agreement and alliance of the Economic and Copo, especially to the institutional and political agents, in order that they may be excluded from the contest between the parties and elections which this matter is just. That's what we were saying, as we said, on October 14th, 2015. Therefore, Mrs Pinedo, I reiterate this call for the responsibility of the institutions and parties to subtract the model of economic concert and quota from the legitimate party and electoral dispute. But, said that, Euskadi is indeed very much involved in this issue, which is the responsibility of the Basque Government to negotiate with Spanish. It's our responsibility. This is laid down in the Gernika Autonomy Statute in article 41, and also in the Concert Act in article 48. And have no doubt: once the agreement has been reached, it will be ratified in the joint committee, where other institutions, such as the three deputies (which is therefore composed of the Government and the deputies), also participate, and will then be approved in the Congress of Deputies. And I believe precisely in the role of the groups in this Parliament which also have representation in Congress. The agreements reached must also be supported by the Courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u45	Look, Mr Lehendakari, the reality is that Mr Erkoreka said this week because he is hopeful about the possibility of reaching an agreement on the liquidation of the quota, which he considers to be close, because there is will. But the will of a PP government that didn't want to hear about the quota while it had absolute majority. That is, an interested will of the PP government. Nothing to do with bilaterality or respect for Basque self-government. Nothing at all. A possible agreement that, I am sorry to tell you, does not seem to be the result of that table of technical teams of both governments, but of the negotiations between two parties (PP and PNV) to approve the budgets of a People's Party government, and a possible agreement that this Parliament does not know about. This parliament does not know how, when, or when, why Mr. Erkoa sees the agreement so near to the crown. These negotiations are weak, they're weak. They are weak because they make us subject to the state's temporary will and necessity. Moreover, these negotiations are out of date and are extremely obscure, Mr. President. They are very far from the transparency they deserve, and from the political and public controversy. And in this sense, it is not fair that this legislature should know by a press conference the settlement of the individual, a division of 1,650 million, is in a solution. These negotiations have to be changed. The parliamentary law which represents this people is essential to know the grounds of negotiation, the content, and the periods of time, because it strengthens the defence of our people, because it encourages the negotiation itself, and gives the trial a legal and a guarantee. That's why the Basque Country requires you to consider the guarantee of the Parliament. The Basque Country will demand that the Parliament be an active agent.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. As Mrs. Pindo, the United States of Guernica, and the Concert Act, we have both governments to negotiate. It's a shame for the Basque People to collect, maybe not being a member of the funk, because if they did, they'd have a negotiation. But according to the state and the Act of Concertation, it is our duty to negotiate, and to make an agreement, and then to sign that agreement at the Quador's commission. This is our responsibility, and also our commitment. You said, yes, "We accumulated more than ten years of disagreement", but in the area of negotiation of the two governments' working committees, and not in another area of negotiation, we were able to see progress, both in the area of settlement of the outstanding quotas in 2007 and in the basis for the methodology for marking the quota 2017-2021. This progress has also been made in the pending liquidations of active employment policies and the European Social Fund, in the negotiation of the two governments, of which Parliament will have sufficient information, where appropriate. And our aim is to reach an agreement, to normalise relations with the Spanish Government, and to be able to regulate the existing discrepancies financially, in order to consolidate the path of effective bilateral relations, Mrs Pinedo, yes, between the two institutions, the Spanish Government and the Basque Government. Subscribed later, later, to the Joint Commission of Concert, between the government and deputies...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "I'm asking, "I'm asking you, "I've made a meeting with the President in Casanova Alonso EH," about the PP agreed to accept his budgets." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u49	I'd take the question for granted.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u50	Mr. President, it's your turn to speak.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u51	Thank you. The question is asked for what has been asked, and I reply to Mr. Casanova, that there are many more than 29 million partial corrections. What is it? It's the whole budget. In all, there's a deal of $11.09 million euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u53	Yesterday in this House, in this very forum, Mr Alonso told us that if in the future anyone interested in politics reviews the Journal of Sessions will marvel at the clarity of the People's Party, which, contrary to the opinion of the whole world, maintained the only true thesis. I do not think that this hypothetical observer of the future will marvel at the fact that the People's Party is right, but that it will marvel, if things continue as they are, that the People's Party has representation in this Basque Parliament. Because the People's Party is downhill, the People's Party is increasingly marginalized, politically and institutionally, in this country. The Popular Party is dismissed and they're so conscious, but...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u54	Please, Investigation. Please, Mr. Casanova. You can't go in with the Popular Party. Ask me!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u55	The government... The government made the deal.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u56	Yes, the explanation to the government...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u57	The government made an agreement with the Party Popular and I...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u58	But the questions...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u59	... I'm putting this deal into context. And I'm talking about the Building and Loan policy that will condition these budgets. I'll continue.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u60	I'll tell you to go on. Please focus on the question. Just focus on the question, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u61	The question is centered.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u62	Focus on the question.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u63	Partu Popular and P.N.V. A deal.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u64	The question is about the AP-AP-based budget deal, not the Popular Party.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u65	A deal, but that deal...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u66	No, it's about the deal.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u67	He has a context.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u68	Mr. Casanova, about the agreement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u69	If you'd mind agree with PP, don't agree with PP. But don't hang up and...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u70	Find out, I don't have anyone...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u71	To express freedom in the planning of our party...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u72	Mr. Casanova, please. About the deal. The question is, "about remember." Center Question
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u73	I'm talking about the deal. This is what you do here every day. All the questions, all the interferences. To talk about the context...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u74	Focus on the question, please. Please, I beg you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u75	I'm getting it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u76	Please, I beg you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u77	The popular party is dismissed and we think it's well rejected. It is the place to which it belongs, to lessen, from corruption, from a poor management, from the subjection of the elites, to the mutilation of self-gravity, and the efforts of peace. It's where it belongs. And that's where he should stay. We're worried about your agreement. Trouble, economic and political point of view. We see that it is a matter of great difficulty to obtain economic agreements so easily with a side on the right side. We're worried about the danger that this agreement can assume to be a necessary reform attorney. A court-martial could be compromised by your agreements. And besides, we see the signs of Marotism, legitimacy, which he had so many signs of Government. This agreement cannot be distinguished from the negotiation you're making in Madrid with PP and Ciudadnos, PP and Ciudadans to test the budgets of the Spanish State. You'll tell us that you're doing eascal agenda, but, according to what we know so far, you're negotiating PNV's agenda. The only thing we're just saying is that more cops and there's a deal around a high-speed train. But that's playing small, playing small. The respect of this people is not derived from submission. At other times, you said that this strategy had achievements and I wanted to remember the agreements you made with Aznar. At first, everybody was so happy. The Basque People's achievements. Then you helped produce such a political phenomenon and then the future. And then the rise of centralism. And then, self-repairing, for Aznarri's protection in his own time. Don't play the little one. Don't look for deals with PP in Madrid. This anchors this people in dependence. If we really want to be impartiality, if we really want to be taken seriously, if we really want to be aware of the authenticity and security of the rights of this country, we need to speak from state to state. Now it's supposed to play small PP with everything you get, if anything happens, then lose when they have a full majority. And that's not a preview. That's what's been historically happening. So don't act like a little deal. Don't play games with the market negotiations. Try to be a village. Try to invade and search for the rights of this people, and not those who deny it, who deny the social rights of this people, and oppress the national character and the national rights of this people.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u78	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casanova, how long have you been playing big? And what did you get? Ah, Mr. Casanova, if you could be in the government and if you had a chance to negotiate with the Popular Party, we would have to see them, I'm sure. But, as I have said, it is a great deal beyond the partial corrections of the 29 million euros, and it is a great deal because the budget is complete, not just 29 million, but the whole budget, and I confess, in total, 11.059 million Euro deal. And thanks to this agreement, he'll have the budget from Euskka for the fourth year, we'll ensure stability, we'll guarantee public services by default of health, education, and social protection. Thanks to this arrangement, we're running economics, conducting investments, innovations, or international aids, encourage jobs, and so forth. Is that the way to play small? I'm sure it's just the first day that M.M. has agreed that conversation and agreement are indispensable in order to make decisions in this law, and the budget is an important decision to make. I don't know, but I'm asking for realism and responsibility, Mr. Casanova. We're on our way to accept the budget, but we're still going to have a lot of deals, and we want it to spread the agreements. Our door is open to all sides, even to the EH Collect. We made important settlements in the past law, and this time why not, Mr. Casanova? Why not? And I participated in the first conversation with the EH Collectors in the negotiation for the government's supplementation. It was the Government itself that declared from the first day the readiness for dialogue and agreement, out of necessity and also out of conviction. Our disposition has been open to all parties. We have put forward the same proposal, without vetoes or conditions of our own. What we have asked for is an attitude of realism and responsibility. As simple as that, Mr. Casanova. The agreement reached is positive (and I say so is positive) between the Basque Nationalist Party, the Basque Socialist Party and the People's Party, because it goes beyond 29 million. Euskadi has a budget of over EUR 11 billion for the first time. This budget makes it possible to increase resources for essential health, education and social protection services. These three areas received in 2013 a total of 6 billion euros, 6,541 last year, and 6,748 this year. It's the official data. Is it playing the little one? There are more economic resources, and there are no cuts, Mr Casanova. Guarantee of essential services, no cuts, more investment, growth, employment..., this is the total scope of the budgetary agreement for the financial year 2017. Thank you, Mr. Casanova.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, Mr. Alonso... ?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u81	Madam President, very briefly, and without courage, really... Without in the spirit of opening any debate, I wanted, of course, to reject the insults that Mr Casanova has on my group, which he calls an extreme right-wing group. Well, I'm not going to reproduce the insults you've said here, because you honestly don't insult who you want, but who you can, and you don't know if you're in a position to do it. But I did mean, nothing more, that Mr Casanova is likely to suffer a serious attack of budgetary jealousy, and that if we have been able to reach an agreement with the government, it is because we have met... [[Berber]] Excuse me, Mr. Casanova...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u82	Mr. Casanova, you are not in the word. Mr. Casanova... [[Berber]] Mr. Casanova, all right, it's over. You've had your turbot.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u83	I just wanted to say that if we have reached an agreement with the Government it has been because we have found ourselves in centrality, and that is a place that is still far away from you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u84	Thank you. (Response) You don't have the word. Mr. Casanova, you have no word. That's enough. You don't have the word. You don't have the word. 9th point on the subject list: "Interpologies, members of the Ubeka Aranz and EH Shades, made to the Governor and Chief of the Autoberon, to the reduction of the high rate of mediation and provisionalness in the public administration." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u85	Good morning, ma'am. In fact, Mr. Erkoreka, we're very worried and, as time went on, we're getting more worried. First, we are seeing that the conversation and negotiation are disappearing from the government dictionary. Not just from this house, but the conversation and the negotiation are disappearing from your vocabulary. It was announced from the Public Function at the beginning of legislation that this Government would open the door to a new era, which led to the conversation. But now, after the gathering of public administrations in Madrid's general negotiations last week, the Public Function of this Government declared that he had no intention of calling the general table, at least for the moment. And if you do not, Mr. Erkoa will correct me. Secondly, before the sentence that came from Europe in September, this government, instead of taking initiative, preferred to wait, instead of reflecting on the model of public employment contracts in the root of the sentence, and to change the models of contracts. And thirdly, it's like self-centered self-referring for fun. I mean, until now, the organic law of Madrid has used royal data as a reason not to develop our self-generacy, which, when it was himself, has driven its competitions by reducing and increasing its contract in public administration by reducing and increasing its subsidies to unrelated jobs, and adding labors, increasing the medium and the provisionalness. Remember what average we have in the Administration, 30%, and, well, if we go to school and to Osar, when 40% arrive. For death, those who are given by a constant inability, and by jubilation, are not entirely covered by the ratio of reposition, at least in theory, the limits imposed by Madrid. But now that the crystal floor has disappeared just as you would like to call it ionola, it has changed. The frame has changed. And just now, again, you're starting to use self-selves and self-portraits to make an initiative, or at least seems to be from without. And you're starting again to use self-generacy and self-determination as an excuse to prevent the epidemic and the temporary process. We know, and we agree with you, that the reality of Madrid is not our reality, but that the reality of the Spanish State is not our reality, and we will not be the ones to defend the frame of Madrid. But it is an objective data that the frame which has hitherto been, that the game-field which has hitherto been changed, and that now we find ourselves in another game-field, and that this game-field gives us more opportunity, or ought to give us a chance to develop self-organization, in order to develop our competitions, even if we think it would be the priority of us here instead of looking at Madrid, to penetrate deeper into our organizations and get independent. We believe this government ought to do so, to open the door to that new era which he spoke of at the beginning of legislation. If you really believed that the project you took at the beginning of the legislature, the opening of a new era, it would seem that this government ought to take action, that it would have to open the way to the conversation, and that the negotiations should be carried out, by designing the efficient plan of employment, and above all to cut off the wings of mediation and temporary space. And I'm not going to write the data again because you know the data better than anyone, because we have data in public administration, which is a whole whole map, in mediation and provisionalness. And, to be honest, we don't know what to think, or the way that you did last week, the statements that you made are going in a different direction. I'll explain: I was wondering if the statements made were based on the negotiation strategy regarding the budgets in Madrid. I mean, we don't know what the government's doing, and it's allowed to bring back a little candy from Madrid because of the budget negotiations and fake it, and here it's not being involved. It's allowed to negotiate with Madrid, and everyone sees who he negotiates with, you'll see, but for us it's important to take action here and give an answer to our problems. And that's why we want to invite you from opposition as a parliamentary team, and encourage you, regardless of what happens in Madrid, as the director of the public administration, as the principal representative of fun, to serve our citizens, the public system, the workers. That's the day he wants to ask you to take the initiative. Well, in the end, we have a preference for blitzing public systems of quality, and to guarantee the social and temporal rights of the people, and, in our opinion, education and Ossar. And that requires promotion to be taken in public administration to limit the temporary and intermediate, to stop and really resist. And that's why today we'll be grateful to you for the project that the government has in the administration to reduce the means and the high provisional rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u87	Thank you, Mr. President. Ms. Ubera, you win a bet, I win. We were talking about your first words "we're so worried," because it's your usual phrase, and we've been worried about you for a long time, and we've been trying to calm your troubles, but as you keep on worrying and worrying, I've won the bet for today, and that's why. You have said many things in your interference, I have listened to them with great attention, and you have said a great many things, not all of them with the same foundation, and very different from each other, and have often been so unlike that you have often connected things to separate them, and it probably may cause confusion and cause confusion. But I will not answer all that you have said now, for I would not have time to answer all your expressions, or all your accusations, because the accusation is made by a sentence, but afterwards to answer the accusation, and give it an argument for more time. I'm going to go to your recapitulation fund, or I'll try, or I'll try. If I've understood correctly, your thesis is this: You've used the word "compression" on the basis of state legislation, that it's been used on pretexts to establish a preparation in its public function, and above all to increase provisionalness and mediation. And now, last week, March 29, the central administration, the state administration signed with local unions, the whole landscape has changed, because it's going to be crazy and keeping up with its planning, and it doesn't want to take advantage of the chances of this planning that's changed. The frame has entirely changed, we are in front of another game-field, and your words, your plan, are the reason or origin of the presence of this change of frame, or of another game-field, which Montor has agreed with the unions last week. Well, before I answer what you say, and what you plan, I would ask three questions from the thread of your speech. The one, the effect of the fundamental legislation of Madrid, when it is organized in place of public witness, is it an excuse, or is it an indispensable condition? First question. You make excuses, I say it's a necessary condition. The second question is, is it fun to hear what's going on with all the major plannings and criteria that are encouraging the basic laws of Madrid, as far as the public function is concerned? And thirdly, that contract in March 29th, that frame Montor has signed with the unions is so commendable? You think it perfectly plausible, I have my doubts, but I would like you to put it here as a question because it really is one of the grounds of your argument. Well, let's go and answer these questions. The first is, whether it be an excuse, or not the effect of the fundamental legislation of Madrid or State in the Renaissance, in order to advance the organization of the public function in the Renaissance. Well, I can tell you it's not an excuse, it's a necessary condition. And especially in the case of the compositions, in the case of the compositions you mention in your interpelation, the obvious and obvious condition of necessity. The rhetorical rates were first established in the year 1987, but in the last five or six years they have been particularly strict in the fundamental legislation of the state. It has been so strict in the term between 2012 to 2015, that this rate of composition has been 0%, you can tell how strict and narrow it has been, right? And that has influenced the whole administration. I mean, it's been working on every state administration, and I think it's logical, Euskon. And if the consequence be limited, limited, or destroyed, the consequence is, that in the administration it is necessary to increase the temporary, or to increase the intermediate. One necessarily brings the other. And that's how it's done in all the administrations of the State. Are you kidding me? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, and it's just a temporary rate, that's true. I don't know, I was interested to know how much you use it for the online or temporary rate of fun, because you've used different figures in the past few weeks, you said, and you wrote that it's only 36 in health, and a few days later it's 40. And I don't know if a few days can change so clearly, but I can see that you use different numbers, not always based on foundations. I was interested in that number 40 now. But I'll give you other examples, anekdots anidata. It's true that the provisional joke has increased because of the appeal effect, but it's the same in all the administrations. An example, the City of Donostania, the temporary absence of the EH collected five years that had been running for five years, went up 8%, 8. In 2012, it was 23%, year 2017. It's 31%. Is this because EH collects a side to increase the provisionality? Not, probably, because they had to admit some reasons that are excuses for you here. Giupic Foru Aldundia, temporary at 30%. Between 2011 and 2015, there was only one bottle of hot stuff. Just one. And in the year, between 40 to 60, you'll see whether the temporary process has increased or not. Why? Because the local governors wanted it? No. Because the rate of composition is not an excuse, but because it has been obliged to respect it. The second question is, if you're wondering about all those planning from Madrid and especially about performance rates. No. And I have often accused that plan. It's not now that we're making proclamations for self-organization or self-closure. Several times have been shown in this government contrary opinions against this and against these opinions. And from the point of view of the Jestzai Party, I don't need to repeat it. On February 21st, a few weeks ago, a senator, Senator Dolorus Echano, asked Montoro whether he was planning to continue with the occasionaries, and he agreed. So, our behavior is clear. Our plan is clearly opposed to it, and I believe that it is undeniable, for everyone, or for everyone who wants to hear it. Secondly, shall we applaud the agreement of March 29th, which you think changes the panoma from top and bottom? I don't think it's because it's still with the occasion cards. It is true, that the rate of composition places it at 100 percent, but our purpose, our purpose, is to make it disappear, to disappear, to prevent the state from setting up the rate of composition in the future, and that agreement you wish to applaud, but it's not for us to applaud. The other thing is whether we take advantage of the chances that this agreement makes possible in its own sphere, to end the provisional. Klaro, yes, we'll take advantage of them all until the last crack. But one thing must be considered. This agreement must still be made a law. And it becomes a Law, if it be made, by the Law of the Law of Prejudence of the Common-wealth. And if this Law of the Common-wealth be not tried, this is of no consequence. First, then, we must wait, whether the law be tried or not. And as long as the table is not tested, and the law is not yet legal, it has not too much sense, because it is still unconfirmed. But we'll take advantage of the possibilities. Don't hesitate.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u88	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u89	Let's see, Mr. Erkoreka, when do you get it, taking away my terrible worry about it? But I find it difficult, Mr. Erkorek, to remove my concern for you, from the absence of the initiative and incestivity of this government, that it does not properly answer the problems we are capable of, and our romances. I'll be glad if this government ever gets rid of my concern, but I find it hard to see that a government you lead will do that. We are facing a very serious subject to play with cynicism. You've tried to rhyme, you've tried to put the cyph dance on the table, you've tried to stjbert our words, and you've done all that to make no answer and to show that you won't have any initiative, and that you're not doing anything, and still less, we're starting a conversation and a negotiation with the workers. Because you'll do whatever you want in Madrid, okay? And what's going to happen will happen. But that doesn't prevent us from taking action here and doing what has to be done here, doing what's your responsibility. And unfortunately, the impression we have is that you are trapped in the chain of excuses for lack of will. And, in truth, we do not understand what really lies behind it: because you don't believe in the public system, and besides, this public system is a public system that you've built for Christmas years, not just you, of course, workers, union representatives, along with this town. And because you are making transition to another model by the destruction of the job, it is because you either believe in public employments of quality, or, consequently, because you fear to penetrate into social and temporal rights, or because you fear to penetrate deeper into self-existence, it is because it requires that all should be brought round a table, to seek a conversation and agreeing with the working class. We don't know. We don't know who it is. Maybe we're lawyers, but you'll tell us what's going on. And you won't deny that you've been using excuses so far. You have used excuses, and, as you have said, all by the arguments of law, legal security, everything ought to be very well connected with the legal security, and the difficulties you put in it, so that no public offer could be made more extensive, so that there was no occasion to apply so much attention to such matters. But right now we've got a bigger distance and I'm not going to be the one that would applaud Montoro. But it's an objective data that the rules of the game have changed, and there's something else you can do about it. Well, they'll be fine when the budgets are approved, but while they're doing things, the government has signed it with the Spanish unions. Of course that will be received in the law of the ancients, but, well, you can start work. We're not always waiting for Madrid, are we? One day, this government will have to take the initiative in fulfilling its responsibility. But, well, an excuse. Another excuse. You see, when you came to present the budgets, you mentioned the fact that when we discussed the temporary and irretrievation, the whole public administration was not so great a provisional, and you used the general administration as an argument. And now that Madrid has just changed the rules of gambling, you also use the general administration to avoid the measures that may be taken in education and Osar. But whilst we see it in the degree of state, it seems to you that in the theory, under the law of Spain, the communities which are in it are taking several measures, to prevent the temporary and intermediate. Then we don't understand why we're not here. And we want to encourage you in a really self-portrait, if you believe in the self-portrait that you're so proud of, and as your vice-presuming department said, you want to dig deep in independent independence, because you want to dig deep in self-collarization, and now that it's not enough for Madrid, well, go deep. Deep down...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Your time is up, please. Your time is up. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u91	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Ubera, there's no son of your mother who really will calm your chronic anxiety. We've already seen that you've got it built up, that it's a permanent pose and that there's no way out of it. No one will ever get away with it. I am surprised that this concept of your excuse, which I have given you, has not the least foundation in the place where EH Collect has been governed, in order that he has fulfilled all these strict and sincere rules, in order to continue with your argument. Uh, Aber, you say that because we're not engaged to self-organized here, as an excuse, we've agreed to all the basic rules from Madrid in regard to public function. I told you, I also taught you with the same thing as the Gipuian Foru Aldudian and the City of Donosts, not as long as the Eucest Party has been in the government, but as long as Garitano and Izilo were there. Are those against the auto-gravity too? Are they making excuses too? Are they also incubators of the same scheme? They're not interested, and they're also applicable to all the calsites you've been using here? Really? Because that's the numbers. And, clarro, the rates of composition are there, it is necessary to be applicable to all administrations, and I will give you more information if you like. In Foru Aldandian, the temporary rate has obviously been raised since 2011, because in the following years the ratio of position was 0% in a general way. In 2011, jobs were called, OPEk zero; in 2012 the purses of labour, OPEA zero; 2013, the purses of labour, zero OPE. In 2014, yes, the OPE was made with fire firemen and egasun techniques, but in internal prostates. Intradictions have no compunction, they are officials, officials who have been standing and officials who are standing, nobody comes from without, the provisionalness remains the same. And there was a bottle of fire in it, un bottledoo. This is the great achievement of Giantanus as the will to resist the fundamental legislation of the State. What you tell me is here: you must do here, because I am in opposition, which we do not do where we govern, and which we shall never do here is what you have to do here. And if you don't, you're contrary to self-generacy, you're dependent on Madrid, you don't have any commitments with our organization, our independence, etc. Now, when EH Collect does the same, where they rule, then they are not. Depends on what he does, then he deserves a rating or an opposite. That's curious. Then I'm surprised what admiration you really take for Montoro's last initiative, I'd never really believe it. Yes, Montoro did. It's true. He's pushed an agreement with the unions in it. It must be said that the agreement you applaud was not signed by ELA. even ELA is at that table, for ELA, in the periphecical Administration of the State, has its representative, and being at the table, was there, and did not sign. You applaud him, but the unions here didn't take any notice of him. If the possibility of this spreads, if the law is tried, and the law becomes a law, we will use it here in the Administration and take advantage of it, without any doubt in the health world. If it becomes a law, then all the possibilities which it provides to establish the public function, no doubt. Same thing in education. Don't hesitate. In general administration, too. We'll use all the possibilities to end the process. And you don't have to report it here, we don't have a problem with the public. I'm a civil officer, I'm engaged to the public sector, like you, no less; I won't say any more, but not less. Don't hesitate.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u92	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The tenth point in the subject list: "These interpelations have been discussed at once: An Interpelration, made together by the members of the Podemos to the head of Economics and Sub-Sertains, to build, provide, and explore the Spanish mansion of the general administration of the State, and the partnership contract between the Eucalle Autonomy Eremia. Enchantation, the parliamentary staff of Carmelo Barrio Barroja Popula Group to the head of the Board of Education, in reference to the plans of the "EstMunbao" program. Mr. Becerlo Carollo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. Well, I guess if the source of neutron spread was in the hands of ETA this room would be full right now, but, as we're just talking about employment, R & D and Basque industry, then it doesn't even attract the interest of the Economic Development Advisor. Mrs Uriarte, because of a questionable decision by the Bureau, I am obliged to ask you this question, but it also serves, because it concerns the entire government. The consortium for the construction, equipment and operation of the Spanish headquarters of the European source of space neutrons, better known as ESS-Bilbao, is a project that was born out of the agreement signed in December 2010 between the central government and the Basque government. This agreement set the initial cost of the project at EUR 180 million, of which EUR 75 million were financed by the central government and EUR 105 million by the Basque government through regular contributions committed up to 2022. These contributions have then been reduced to half, and for various reasons, in the six years since the signing of that agreement the project has suffered various vicissitudes that have affected its normal functioning, among which should be highlighted, among them, the cessation of funding by the two signatory institutions. Thus, the central government closed the tap in 2012, as part of the drastic cut that year Mr Rajoy gave to science and research in Spain to satisfy the Troika and the bank, and the following year, in 2013, the contributions of the Basque government ceased. From then until now, the lack of funding has been compounded by political, professional and personal disagreements, incorrect decisions, interinstitutional incommunicado and many other factors that have put the project at the edge of the abyss, the workforce at a pace of unemployment, and Basque and Spanish science in the face of an unmatched picture of international discredit. Last Monday, during the debate and vote on the partial amendments to the government's budget, the spokesman for the Basque Nationalist group questioned whether from Elkarrekin Podemos we had seriously assessed the social and economic impact of the ESS-Bilbao project, just as we are demanding other projects that the government is pushing, and the truth is that I thought it was a good argument for this inquiry, so I will stop on this issue. On the economic impact, it can be said that the source of neutron spread is now one of the most ambitious technological projects Europe has in its hands, both in terms of scientific scope and economic impact. The project has a budget of more than 1.8 billion euros, of which the Spanish State is responsible for contributing 5%, i.e. 93 million, of which 73 million are in kind: equipment and works that are contracted and developed in the country that makes the contributions. Once Euskadi lost the race in his day as the main headquarters of the project in favour of Sweden, the fact that it is in Jundiz and in Zamudio where the aforementioned equipment and works are developed implies not only a reasonable volume of business, but the possibility that the Basque companies join and participate in a technological project of maximum level. Given that today ESS-Bilbao already awards 77 % of its contracts to Basque companies, this means that EUR 56 million remains directly here. In addition, during the 40 years of life of the ESS-Bilbao project, however, it will continue to receive orders from equipment and spare parts worth at least EUR 45 million. This same week it has been known that the central government has budgeted 18 million euros for ESS-Bilbao in this year 2017, and another 30 million up to 2020. It is good news that Madrid's funding has been unblocked, but now the ball is on the roof of the Basque Government. In the budget debate that is yet to be concluded from Elkarrekin, we have tabled a partial amendment to allocate EUR 5 million to the project, but the groups supporting the Government have rejected it. This means that in this 2017 fiscal year ESS-Bilbao will have two euros of budget by the Basque Government: one from the Department of Education, another from the Department of Economic Development. However, our amendment will be resubmitted to the plenary next Tuesday. Will you count on your support this time? What do you plan to do to ensure project funding if you reject it again? But, on the other hand, beyond funding, which is undoubtedly crucial, the channels of communication between the Basque Government and the central Government, as well as those that have been broken between the University of the Basque Country and ESS-Bilbao, must be re-established. Because a project of these characteristics can only come to a successful conclusion if the following factors are given. The first is that there should be decisive and non-crack political support. And in this respect, it is urgent that the central Government request its accession to the European consortium of the ESS, without doubt, but also that the Basque Government confirm its commitment to maintaining its seat in the Basque Country, closing once and for all outstanding issues, such as its definitive location or the already mentioned schedule of economic contributions to which I have referred. The second key factor is that there is stable and unsurprising funding, allowing the consortium to meet both project milestones and international commitments made without delays and financial constraints. And thirdly, a clear and realistic scientific project is needed, enabling collaboration between the UPV and the ESS-Bilbao consortium through shared and consensual lines of work. And take into account both the capacities of the local business fabric and the specific constraints of an international project such as ESS-Bilbao. In fact, if all these premises were fulfilled, it is even possible that in the medium term the initial project of this Basque Government could be recovered from the fact that Euskadi could have a compact source of neutrons, as originally proposed. And, of course, this would certainly be good news for the Basque industry. However, what is certain in any case is that without the ESS that other project is also unworkable. And secondly, I will focus on the social impact. I would like to make reference to that, because for my group Elkarrekin We can people are definitely the biggest concern. At ESS-Bilbao, sixty-five highly qualified and valuable professionals are currently employed. These people are part of what institutions often call the pompously human capital of our country. They are people who have developed their professional career in very different places, but who have decided to establish here, in Euskadi, their place of work and residence. If the consortium were to cease its activity now, it is most likely that many of these people do not have great problems finding work in other places and countries. In the short term, the injured will be them, but in the medium and long term, no doubt, it is Euskadi who loses. This year the government will devote EUR 1.4 million to attracting international researchers through Ikerbasque, and almost another has budgeted the Bizkaia Parliament for its part. But I ask: is it not a contradiction that the government has to spend money to return the emigrant talent, while saving the necessary funds to keep the talent that is already here? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u94	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u95	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning too, Mrs. Uriarte. In this question I am pleased to agree with Mr Becerra on the concern we are dealing with today, but you in this question have something to say to us, something to tell us in relation to the link, in relation to commitments that the Basque Government is going to make in relation to the ESS-Bilbao. And in that regard we too want to raise that concern. Moreover, recently in December, responsible for the Council of the European Space Neutron Source meeting in Bilbao expressed their conviction that Spain will soon be a full member of the consortium of this project. The Spanish State participates in this project through the ESS-Bilbao, as we all know, a centre shared by equal parts by the central and Basque governments, which was born to opt to be the seat of the European source of neutrons by spalling, but the installation was finally taken, as we all know and has also remembered Mr Becerra, to the Swedish city of Lund, where it is currently being built. After which the Vizcaine headquarters had to be recomposed, and decided, in addition with good judgment (the governments decided), to orient themselves to work on projects for the source of Lund, but which in theory will be for science, for technology, for industrial development, for innovation, for research. Bilbao hosted a meeting of the council of the European source of space neutrons in which fifteen member and observer countries were represented. The meeting discussed the latest developments in the development of the project, which accounts for 25% of the project's implementation and whose total investment, as has already been recalled, will be €1,843 million. The president of the council himself expressed his conviction that the Spanish State, which has been from the beginning, I say again, a key partner in the project – he said – will soon be a full member of the ESS; he also stressed that "a couple of weeks ago" – he said in relation to December – the first inkind contribution of the installation had been received from the ESS-Bilbao, which confirms Spain's commitment to the project. In addition, the new Managing Director of the consortium noted that the project needs the experience and capabilities of ESS-Bilbao to achieve success. That is to say, we are framing the issue in terms of the needs and the need to link the Government in which you are integrated, Mrs Uriarte, to this issue. It was also said that it was very important for Spain to become a full member as soon as possible, so that both Spanish institutions and companies could take part in that process. Mr Martínez, director of the ESS, stressed the urgent need to become a full member of the ESS ERIC in order to be able to carry out all the work in kind committed to the project. The development of the European project has been positively appreciated in recent months. It was noted that the Spanish State had been the first country to deliver work in kind (two hundred concrete blocks for armor, etc.). The ESS-Bilbao – also remembered in the previous inquiry – has a staff of seventy-five people of first technical and scientific level. It is a public consortium in which 50% of the general government participates, through the Secretariat of Research, and the Basque Government through the departments with responsibilities in R & D+i. For this reason, the central and Basque governments agreed to grant a budget, from 2010 to 2025, of EUR 178 million, which has also been recalled. What is it, Mrs. Uriarte? What's going on right now? What's going to happen and what's going to happen, especially. What happens, what analysis you can do, because we've already seen some communications that you and Mrs. Tapia have had with the company, with the company committee, and some... But the situation is of imbalance: 18 million euros from the Government of Spain, and two euros from the Basque Government. I don't know how many neutrons you can buy with two euros! You'll tell us. I'm sure he'll have done the analysis, but two euros, I don't know... A bag of neutrons, generics would also have to be (since he's with the lord...). Generic, not branded, with two euros. You have to explain to us and you have to give us good news, Mrs Uriarte, on this subject. Or is it the bilaterality that the Basque Government is talking about? Bilaterality: 18 million the Government of Spain, two euros the Basque Government. I don't know, hey! I think the thing is very serious and you have to answer it. We're playing a lot. We are especially playing that part of the ERIC programme, as Mr Becerra has also reminded us, who is asking us for things by spring 2018. And the issue goes through the budget commitments. The Government of Spain has already committed itself. We have also seen the provision, because we read a letter that the Secretary of State for Research, Development and Innovation had sent to the company committee, saying that "the fulfilment of commitments is, as it cannot otherwise be, a priority", and talked about the administrations (i.e., also talking about yours, to which you belong) that we make up the consortium... "It is precisely for this reason that the General Administration of the State and the Basque Government are in constant contact to ensure that this is the case, through the amendment of the convention, to ensure financing until 2025, the time for the construction of the source of neutrons by scattering. And in this regard, it should be noted that "this ministry has proposed that in the General Budgets of the State for 2017, which are in preparation, an authorization be included so that ESS-Bilbao can receive in 2017 a public credit that allows it to fulfill the commitments made in this regard". He also said (this letter is dated 15 March) that "we are also aware that the budgets of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country will include an item for the ESS-Bilbao". And he was right: two euros. We have, of course, seen calls of attention and emergency from the people working there and the needs of the ESS-Bilbao itself in relation to that situation, and we too want to know what is going on, Mrs Uriarte. It is incomprehensible to us that this situation should be reached, at least that it should be ignored in this way. It is possible that you will give us some key to commitment, economic link, assumption of the ESS-Bilbao as a strategic element for our economic potential, for our technological development, for research, for innovation, which I believe is the key element, and it is also the very important and interesting factor of triple collaboration: the collaboration of the Government of Spain, the collaboration of the Basque Government, and the integration into a European project with all blessings, which will be one of the leading projects in the world in relation to this capacity and this scientific research. And besides that we all know, because we have already been assured, we all know that there must be no danger or risk that the returns and the ability to link the actions, the work of the ESS-Bilbao, will be linked to our companies. That's insured, that's insured. Between 70 and 80 % are currently linked to these possibilities, right? And besides other fears that were on the table, I don't know what I'm afraid of or what problems with the University of the Basque Country... No! No! That is your responsibility, Counselor, to put in order, to put into action and in concert all that matter! What more do you want – which, of course, I know from the other side of the consortium – to be able to collaborate with institutions such as the University of the Basque Country! But not parallel, but confluence in collaboration. That is to say, something is failing, something serious has failed in relation to the commitments of the Basque Government. I do not know what you will be able to tell us, but, above all, I do not know whether we will have to do an analysis of suspicions or of grievances; what we must have, Madam Counsellor, is a commitment to the future with a scientific, technological and key infrastructure for the future of Euskadi as well.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u96	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mrs. Uriart is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u97	Mr. President of the Parliament, chief of the Department, members of the legislature. In response to the two questions raised, one to Counsellor Tapia and the other to me, as president of the consortium, in relation to the ESS-Bilbao project, they will allow me to begin by making a summary of the development of the above-mentioned project, and a review of various milestones which, in one way or another, have had an influence on having reached the point at which we are at. The ESS-Bilbao project arises around the ESS-Lund European Spatial Source project to establish the Spanish headquarters of the ESS as a research centre specialized in the development of science and technology in the field of particle acceleration. Both aims of ESS-Bilbao are financed by contributions from the General Administration of the State and the Basque Government. To this end, the General Administration of the State and of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country signed, on 30 December 2010, the cooperation agreement on the construction, equipment and operation of the Spanish headquarters of the European source of space neutrons, ESS, which for this purpose is managed by the consortium for the construction, equipment and operation of the Spanish headquarters of ESS, called ESS-Bilbao. I must insist that the consortium was formed with two fundamental objectives: on the one hand, with the main objective of making ESS-Bilbao the Spanish seat of the European source of neutrons by spacing, and, on the other, with the aim of building an independent research centre specialized in the development of science and technology in the field of particle acceleration. That is to say, this centre, which is annexed to the general administration of the State, and which is situated at Bilbo, must answer to these two purposes, in order that the project may be well developed, and that the challenges which have prevailed in the Euskacaca should be fulfilled. and consequently 2013 and 2014. We've worked and restructured the two administrations of the ESS Billo project for years. During this period both the administrations, by making a change in the administration structure, agreed to encourage and strengthen the project. The management was divided into two sections: The executive and the other tech. The object of this was to watch for the basic purposes of the division I have just alluded to. That is to say, as I said, to attend to the part of the contribution of resources and packages, and on the other hand, in parallel, to generate a scientific and technological value in the field of particle acceleration, mainly in the local environment in which the center is located. Once the project was reoriented and redefined, it was agreed between the two administrations to reduce Spain's contribution to the European source to the current 5%. The European ESS project has continued its development, with substantial elements currently unknown at the end of 2010 culminating in the creation, in mid-2015, of a European Research Infrastructure Consortium as provided for in Regulation 723/2009 of the European Council of 25 June (European Research Infrastructure Consortium-European Spallation Source, ERIC-ESS), in which the participation of the Spanish State has finally been agreed with the other international partners. As a result, Spain's definitive participation in the ERIC-ESS is essential for further progress in the collaboration and construction of the European space source with guarantees for the fulfilment of the fundamental objectives and the development of scientific and technological programmes. And this is the only guarantee. That is why the Basque Government has worked tirelessly all this time to ensure Spain's subscription to the ERIC-ESS. Next, I shall consider the characteristics of the details of which the conduct of the conduct of the conduct of Spain is directed to the RIC-ESS. The essential goals of the course of the first years of the ESS Billao project have been mainly connected with the supply for the strengthening of structure and the supply for the purposes of the ESS-Lunds. Later on, the ESS model put an inflammation point in the European project, and brought back a new dimension with the rest of its cooperation with its other centers associated with the ESS Project. This co-worker demands that a State belonging to the European Union should be formally introduced into RIC, and consequently that it is exclusively applicable to the State of Spain to attach it to this kind of community. I must add that there are two categories of partners in the ERIC-ESS project: observer partner, and founding partner. As I said before, Spain is exclusively entitled to join ERIC-ESS in either of the two categories, since accession can only be carried out by the Member States. Spain is currently part of the consortium as an observer partner of ESS-Lund, and it should be stressed that observer partners have no capacity to ensure the availability of work packages of scientific interest. Well, as I said before, one of the fundamental objectives is precisely that, the scientific value, so if the ERIC is not subscribed this objective will be difficult to achieve. Since early 2015, both administrations have been engaged in a negotiation process on the future of collaboration in relation to the ESS-Bilbao consortium within the framework of the ERIC-ESS. Thus, the Basque Administration and the General Administration of the State approved in the ESS-Bilbao Governing Council dated 12 June 2015 an agreement by which they undertook to detail their collaboration until 2025 in this new framework, once Spain was part of the ERIC-ESS as founding partner. This need to agree on a new addendum is related to the fact that the 2010 agreement was overcome by the circumstances and by the future of the project, both in the economic and in the scientific and technological fields. Therefore, we are facing a scenario that must adapt to the new circumstances and meet the new challenges set by the ERIC. The decision was the result of a consensus and negotiation between the two administrations, in which it was shared that the only way to have working packages allocated to ESS-Bilbao with certain guarantees for the period 2016-2025 was for Spain to sign the agreement to join the ERIC-ESS as founding partner. Thus, the entry as founding partner in the ERIC-ESS would be the only formula under which such relevant economic commitments could be justified that would have to be acquired in the general budgets of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country until 2025. From the treaty of June, 2015, this government has constantly demanded, and has continued to work, to fulfil what has been agreed on, and this government has requested that Spain should be signed to be a member of the RIC-ESS. But it has never happened before. In addition, relevant milestones have taken place since the date of the June 2015 Governing Council agreement. Among them, the publication in the Official Journal of the European Union of Commission Implementing Decision 2015/1478 of 19 August 2015 stating that the Kingdom of Spain has announced its decision to participate initially in the ERIC-Source of European Spallation as an observer, not as a founding partner, without prior communication with that Administration. Shortly thereafter, on 31 August 2015, the ESS was officially established as a European research infrastructure consortium. Subsequently, on 30 September 2015, the Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness announced at the Congress of Deputies that the Spanish Government was planning to become a founding member of the ESS-ERIC European Consortium as soon as possible, and in any case before September 2016. Regrettably, this claim has not been met to date. Later, on 20 October 2015, the approval of the General Budgets of the State occurred with the omission of the economic items allocated to ESS-Bilbao for the period 2016-2025, which did not prevent the continuity of the agreed tasks or the approval of the ESS-Bilbao budget for the year 2016 in the governing council of the entity, the highest body governing the agreement between the two administrations. In addition, the Governing Council agreed not to make further economic contributions to ESS-Bilbao, as there was sufficient availability for the development of the project while the entry into the ERIC was being negotiated. In short, this administration has retained this commitment to the ESS-Plus before it was announced that ESS should be drafted to 5%, and even after the Reformation of June 12th of 2015. Thus this administration has insisted upon the general administration of the State to transfer and sign the ERIC-ESS agreement as the creator of a partner. As I said, in June 2015 it was agreed in the Governing Council that the General Administration of the State would subscribe to the European Research Infrastructure Consortium-European Spallation Source, ERIC-ESS, by Spain. However, Spain was unable to sign the agreement to join the consortium in August 2015, and after that date has requested two extensions for its membership of the ERIC-ESS as a founding partner. The last, dated 7 February 2017. In March 2017 the confirmation of the granting of the extension to Spain, as well as the conditions for accession, was finally forwarded to this administration. These conditions focus on the need to define a timetable to subscribe to the ERIC by July 2017, the need to meet the objectives achieved in the critical packages, and the granting of an extension for the formalisation of such accession until April 2018.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u99	Mrs Uriarte, although it is true that Mr Barrio and I agree in part in our presentation on the need for funding for the ESS-Bilbao, I believe that you have been able to see clearly that in my first speech I have made it clear that funding is not the only thing that is needed. The first thing that is needed, of course, is dialogue between administrations, of course. And, in fact, my intervention was not to designate in this matter that there are bad and good, but to make it clear that there is a problem. There is a problem that requires political commitment from all administrations. You have referred exclusively to the need for the Government of Spain to apply for membership in the ESS, which is obviously necessary, is essential. Mr. Barrio didn't mention it, but I did. But it is also true that you know, because they will have passed it on to you, that the Spanish Government needs to be sure that the Basque Government is going to finance the ESS-Bilbao, and that it needs a commitment and a timetable for funding by the Basque Government that has not occurred. That has not occurred, and that is obviously not the only problem, but that is there. In fact, in part the question of Mr Barrio and mine is: there is already funding from the State Government, what funding will the Basque Government have? Of course, two euros is not enough, and, unfortunately, you have not made clear to us what that way of financing is going to be, nor what the money is going to be spent in 2017. So, of course, we are not only faced with an exclusive funding problem, but we are faced with a serious funding problem that conditions the whole project. But, beyond that, I agree with you that the ESS-Bilbao must adapt to the new circumstances, and that all that intention to generate scientific and technological value must be reformulated, and it must also be reformulated in collaboration between the University of the Basque Country and the ESS-Bilbao. And those bridges are broken today, too. And I understand that it is not a receipt – and we are not going to go in deeper here – that there is also a policy of good and bad: the University is the good, the ESS is the bad, or, as is said from the other side, the ESS is the good, the University is the bad. Here what needs to be done is to solve the problem. So what I would ask you to do is to clarify in your last reply, please, what funding the Basque Government is going to set up, because I am already telling you that on Tuesday we are going to keep our amendment for EUR 5 million, which is not by far what ESS-Bilbao needs but which we believe is a first approach to a more serious commitment by the Basque Government, and we would like to know why our amendment is being rejected, when there really is no financing alternative on the part of the Basque Government beyond a budget of EUR 2 which, as you will understand, after the announcement by the Government of the State, is not credible from the point of view of the political commitment of the Government to ensure the viability of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u100	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u101	Thank you, President. Also briefly. Thank you, Counselor, for what you have told us, but, Mrs Uriarte, you have told us what we already knew. He hasn't told us anything. He has given us a description of past times and told us of some circumstances and some situations in fact, but he has not told us anything, but nothing. And in addition to that, of not telling us anything and not linking in a clearer way to what we asked of him, he has shown us the most worrying of everything: that they are not enthusiastic about such an important project. That is to say, many of you (the Lehendakari, the adviser responsible for innovation, technology, yourself) have been seen in many places filling their mouths with innovation, from Euskadi in research, in technological development..., and not here; here there is a sort of paralysis in relation to this issue, with purely administrative and non-binding issues, Mrs Uriarte. And that lack of enthusiasm is the worst of all, because it makes us see that there is discouragement in the Basque Government in relation to these issues. Instead of a bond, if there is reticence or suspicion on the other side, then we must step forward, instead of from behind and step up, Mrs Uriarte. No, sir, this can't be! Look, we have been told that at the moment when the Basque Government gives the green light, at this moment of lack of action, it gives the green light in relation to its commitments, in relation to the timetables, everything is fixed. It's all fixed. Well, that's what we've been assured of. You say why not. Besides, they're taking the steps. They're taking the steps. What has already been achieved, these first steps, that 25% of the European project has been achieved. I mean, you can't just keep it all up, Mrs. Uriarte! You can't be... Work is under way for ERIC incorporation! The fact that extensions are being requested... They're there, you can ask! There have been problems; we already know that funding in recent years in relation to aspects relating to innovation, technology, has suffered, but it has been maintained long enough so that we can now resume it. And the Government of Spain has taken it back! And we are told that we are working tirelessly on this issue. And you said they're working tirelessly. It's not true, it's not true! It's not true, they're not doing it. No, because the reflection is in the budgets, which is the fundamental element of a government's political will. Let's see, if not! You say, and the lehendakari is right when he talks about the importance of budgets, agreements... He's right. And it is also true that the administrative tasks, as you have said, have to be carried out by the central government, it is quite clear. It is a topic between states, between central governments, in relation to these stories. But you would have been really supporting, enthusiastically, proactively, all that circumstance. And they don't. They don't, and that's the most unfortunate thing about it right now. Instead of having answered these questions with "Don't worry you, it won't be necessary to ask me again because we are going to meet the commitments and because we are going to really link to the project, and because we have planned that this year we will do this and that the years 2018, 2019 and 2020 we will have a calendar, a timetable in relation to this issue, of such, such and such", as the Government of Spain has already done... But you haven't, and we demand it and we're going to demand it. We will demand it, and surely the House will demand it. I don't know, they're staying in those mistrusts, and the truth is... Of course Spain wants to be a founding partner and wants to complete its commitments to the ERIC and the ESS, despite the vicissitudes that have passed, but there is that living flame that, despite the difficulties, has now been able to catch up with the continuity of the project and make it sustainable, make it viable, make its work, its tasks complete, and can continue to work. But on the part of the Government of Spain, not on the part of the Basque Government, Mrs Uriarte. I say again, EUR 18 million in the State General Budgets; EUR 2 million in the budgets of the Basque Autonomous Community, one of its department, and one of Mrs Tapia's department. That's wrong. That's very bad, Mrs. Uriarte. Tell us about economic commitments right now, and tell us about the timetable by 2025. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u102	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u103	Well, now I'm going to focus on the current situation with regard to meeting the basic objectives of the ESS-Bilbao consortium. As Councilwoman Tapia recently said at this parliamentary seat, both fundamental objectives are of concern and concern to us. On the one hand, the attraction of the ESS Billatus project is a complete concern for us, for it is connected as a creator in Spain with the ERIC of Spain, the intervention of ESS, and the contributions to that project. On the other hand, the second main goal of the project is to promote the relationship between the ESS Bill and our university researchers, especially to the Public Basque University, paying attention to their scientific and technological ailments. On the other hand, it is also the part of this purpose that we penetrate into the evolution of our minds in technology. We need to make it clear that our objective in relation to ESS-Bilbao is to have a positive impact on R & D & i and to reverse the economic development of the Basque community, and to enable us to position ourselves as reference points in the acceleration of particles at international level. These are the reasons that we are really concerned about and indicate that there is a breach of the fundamental objectives of this collaboration. In this sense, I have to say that the relationship with the researchers of the UPV/EHU is very small, if not null, despite the fact that there are research staff and groups with a lot of baggage and knowledge about this field in the university and that they should therefore be working with ESS-Bilbao. On the other hand, there has not been an increase in basic research in the field of neutronics in Euskadi as a result of the investments made, beyond the context of the centre. Thus, scientific production is scarce in relation to other local research centres. For example, ESS-Bilbao has collaborated in the realization of four doctoral theses throughout this period, of which three have been carried out at the UPV/EHU (one in 2011 and two in 2014). In addition, ten master's or graduate's studies have been carried out, of which two have been carried out at the UPV/EHU, and the rest at universities outside the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country (in the years 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2016). Any of the UUPVs/EHU groups I have mentioned, with a smaller number of people and resources, has a larger scientific production and all this data has been received from the US Bill of Sale. Again, I must add this also: In 2015, the CEO of the ESS Bill of Sales demanded a scientific, technology, and the Euscal Network intervention as a techtorial technological center. This request was determined by the evaluation committee in 2016 and the opposite. For the documents introduced did not sufficiently prove the conditions of being acres in this category. With regard to the technological training of local companies, the level of investment to be made also requires the Basque Government to be concerned and to ensure that progress is also made in this direction. Thus, the management of ESS-Bilbao should have worked more in the provision of equipment and in general in the relationship with our business fabric. As Councilwoman Tapia said in this Chamber, if, as the Basque Government, we have to make an important contribution to ESS-Bilbao, it will of course be – and it was written from the beginning – for our companies to also have capabilities and grow in the supply of equipment and in their work for ESS-Bilbao. Currently ESS-Bilbao is focused on carrying out work more linked to the engineering and production of inkind contributions than with the added and scientific value of such contributions to Lund. In addition, there is no record of a significant increase in industrial activity or production related to neutronics in Euskadi as a result of investments in ESS-Bilbao. The economic contribution of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and the great effort that this entails do not guarantee that Basque companies will be awarded the contracts promoted by ESS-Bilbao, nor that research groups will have a development in this area that can remain beyond the period of construction of the European space source. Areas of concern to us and which should be adequately addressed, mainly by ESS-Bilbao's own leadership in the first instance. As regards the news that appeared in the media and that they have raised in their intervention, on the contribution by the State of 18 million euros for ESS-Bilbao in 2017, I must clarify that the Spanish Government has included in its proposal for general state budgets for 2017 an authorization for ESS-Bilbao to be in debt of 18 million. That is to say, it has not enabled an economic item for ESS-Bilbao for that amount, but such authorization implies the generation of a debt in ESS-Bilbao which must be reinstated by ESS-Bilbao. In addition, such indebtedness should be agreed and approved by the ESS-Bilbao Governing Council, which, in any case, would be a debt agreement between the two administrations, not only the General Administration of the State. For your information, this decision has not so far been agreed or approved in the Governing Council. On the other hand, the information presented by the Ministry of Finance to the Congress of Deputies on the State budget for 2017 shows some amounts for the years 2018, 2019 and 2020 that do not represent a contribution, that is, do not involve committed credits. To this end, an administrative act should be given to corroborate such a firm commitment of contribution, and that act has not been given. By the way, our commitments also include between 2018 and 2021 a number of amounts for ESS-Bilbao, both in Mrs Tapia's department and in my department, which also indicate our will and were also last year. At the moment, the Spanish State has no budgets; therefore, the Basque Government has authorised the departure of a euro in view of the possibility that the ministry will finally enable the necessary economic departure for the subscription of the ERIC with the multiannual one, but always with two premises that at the moment we are very concerned about this centre: the first in relation to the university researchers, and the second in relation to their local companies. In ESS-Bilbao we have detected a number of problems that do not come from today, of course, that come from behind, and that we are working to solve them. We continue to work with the State to improve the situation. Basque companies have a high percentage of tenders and tenders, but it is also true that the most important, high-tech ones, those are the ones that have escaped. And perhaps it is not because there is no technological level in the country, but because there has been a management that can be done otherwise. In summary, the last years of the ESS-Bilbao project have been characterized by their almost exclusively contribution to the negotiation and procurement of ESS-Lund packages. ESS-Bilbao has contributed a very relative technological value to the Autonomous Community, both in terms of the promotion of R & D & i associated with research groups located in the community and in relation to the local science industry. However, it should not be forgotten that this technological value was the main objective of community participation in this project. Thus, our fundamental objective is to demand that these objectives be adequately addressed, an issue that we have repeatedly called for.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, Maria del Carmen lópez de Ocariz lópez de Munez de Muninka, a member of the Popula team of Economics, the chief physician of the Sub-States of Economics and Subjugations of the Landababers." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u105	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselors, counselor. The Rural Development Act of April 1998 aims, on the one hand, to establish a regulatory framework for the development of policies affecting the development of rural areas, and, on the other hand, creates the instruments coordinating administrative policies and actions to achieve the rural development objectives set out in the Act. Landaberri is one of these instruments in which the cooperation and coordination necessary for the implementation of the Rural Development Act must be produced. In Landaberri's functions they are, on the one hand, to inform the proposals of the rural development programme, its modifications, the decrees that develop them..., information prior to their approval. On the other hand, the draft laws, the draft decrees of the Basque Government, the programmes and plans of the common institutions which have a significant impact on rural areas, either because they refer specifically to economic activities, or because they refer to the cultural services and activities of the Basque Government, or because they condition activities and services in the future, or they alter or could alter the conditions for fulfilling the objectives of the Rural Development Act. That is why we are asking, Madam Counsellor, whether it is the view of the Government and its department to issue reports by Landaberri under the Rural Development Act.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u107	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief of departments and congressmen. Mrs. Lopez de Octariz, it's not a joy but a law execution. The criterion is neither yes nor no, the law must be fulfilled, as you know, and this, of course, is one of our goals. You commented on Act 10/1998 of 8 April 1998 on Rural Development, which constituted Landaberri as an inter-agency coordination and collaboration body. In addition to this law, a decree was subsequently adopted, Decree 95/1998 of 2 June, which brought into operation the rules that decreed how to work within Landaberri. And within those functions that you have also read to us appeared to inform beforehand and pre-emptively some bills, decrees and so on. On the other hand, it is also stated in that June decree that Landaberri will be responsible for assessing the extent to which such projects are affected in order to determine the need for them to be submitted to his report. And in that case I have to point out that the Landaberri plenary, at its meeting on 10 September 2002, adopted the following agreement, as you probably know. The agreement says: "To inform favorably the following clause: Landaberri's report excludes all those programmes, plans and draft laws and draft regulations of the Basque Government relating to the intervention and regulation of agricultural markets and those relating to plant and animal production". Therefore, all draft laws and draft regulations that are not covered by this agreement are reported and worked out. And I would like to point out, of course, that reporting is not about drawing up or drawing up any report exclusively and strictly necessary, but rather about deciding whether it is favourable or not. And that's what we do in Landaberri, as you know, because it's been part of that organ for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u109	Madam Counsellor, as you know, since the sixth parliamentary term, the People's Group, in the exercise of our obligation and responsibility to monitor and monitor the action of the Government and the compliance with the regulations adopted in this House, we have been requesting the reports that Landaberri is issuing. We asked him at the beginning of this parliamentary term for the reports issued by Landaberri from 1 January 2013 to today (which was January), and he replied that there are no reports issued by Landaberri, since that body does not produce reports, but dictates whether or not the points discussed at the meetings are favourable. Yes, he's issued reports. He issued a report to the Tourism Act... He's issued reports. So, counselor, look, I'm going to give you this was a mistake in the answer, I'm going to think it's a human mistake. I'm not gonna think that you're breaking the law, because I don't think you're doing it, and because you're not. And because there are reports that have been issued and have come with the bills, and some of us have asked for them and have also brought them. Therefore, this answer does not correspond to reality, and that will have to be acknowledged to me. I don't know what the reason is, but I'm gonna ignore it. The truth is, I read it several times, because I didn't give credit. It is something that the law says, and it says it on a pre-emptive and pre-emptive basis. There's no altering this if we don't change the law. What gives us the opportunity to insist once again that this law and some aspects of this law require urgent reordering. You should know that a motion was adopted here in 2008 urging the Government to articulate measures to improve the functioning of Landaberri, and the Government issued a report containing measures and actions to amend Landaberri. The legislature was changed, and it was never known again. As you have announced, and the Basque Nationalist group and also our group were carrying out the amendment of the Rural Development Act, we hope that the real law will articulate instruments that will really serve to coordinate the actions affecting the rural environment, because today we believe that the action that Landaberri is doing is better. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u110	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u111	Mrs López de Ocariz, I begin as my first speech ended, pointing out that reporting on a prior and perceptual basis does not mean in each and every case that a report should exist, but that it can be determined whether it is favourable or not. That does not mean that in some cases a report should not be drawn up, and I fully agree with you. On the other hand, we not only agree that this law is better, that it is already a little old and maybe at some point it can really lead us to have that "favourable information" imply writing a report or not, and that we have to clarify some concepts, that we have to modernize that law. That is why we have proposed that during this parliamentary term we will proceed to amend this law, to modernise it, to reorder it, and to clarify some of the aspects that may be subject to interpretation in the previous law. Therefore, that will be our will, and, of course, since it is your will, as I am well aware of it, we will be working on this amendment so that it will lead us to a law of the twenty-first century and that it will really adapt to the needs we have at the moment, where an organ such as Landaberri is acting and whether or not the territorial organs are acting, and under what conditions. Therefore, from now on, it is up to us to work on it, and I hope also to count on your cooperation as you have transmitted it to me. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 12th point in the theme list: "Interpialization by Guanche Suáz, together with the members of the Podemos to the Chief of Empedugus and Polly Society, in order to ensure the revenues of the revenues concerning the commitment to the Professional Euscal Enpleg Service." Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u113	Good morning. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Today I come back to this tribe, and once more the income will ensure that we talk about the rent. First, I want to tell the whole solidarity of Podemos to guarantee incomes for people who are hungry from March 24th to strike. And the second thing I want to say is, at least, I'm perplexed. Lanbide assumed the responsibilities of GIR in December 2011, six years ago. The first draft of criteria – which, for those who don't know, is a sort of management guide for the RGI, according to Ararteko himself – appears for the first time, and which we know, in May 2013. From this four years ago. Ararteko issued a recommendation urging the Government to present this document in a public manner, allowing citizens to defend themselves on 27 January 2015. Of this two years, two months and eleven days ago, Lanbide also expresses a commitment to the publication of this document. Txaro Sarasua, a socialist parliamentarian, asks questions at various times during the last parliamentary term, and specifically on 3 May 2016, almost a year ago, asks for the publication of this document. I myself, when Lanbide's commitment remains unfulfilled, when we begin our course in this legislature, ask what happens to this document, on February 6, 2017. I am asked for an extension for the reply, and on 21 March I am told that this document is in the process of being published. Interestingly, today it appears published with night and lightness. I have here a copy of the properties of the document: it was published yesterday at 22:27:35 p.m. And here I don't know if I feel happy, because my work serves something, or angry, because I feel that there is little respect here. I do not know whether you were trying to leave our parliamentary group in ridicule or silence, or you were trying to hang a medal, but I think I will also move forward, because I do not think you are making a fool of yourself here talking, nor do I think you deserve any medal on this subject. This kind of guide that is Lanbide's criteria documents has been applied for more than four years, and, in addition to failing to comply with transparency and good governance legislation, contained (the one we knew, of course, because the new one has changed) some curious things. Curious as obligations to be fulfilled by the perceptor citizen of RGI who are unknown by itself; curious things such as, for example – textual leo – "a person will not be accepted to share a bank account with another person who is not included in their living unit"; "partners or marriages, with or without children, must live in the same home". For example. Other fun things, such as "it is not acceptable for two people who say they are not a couple to buy a half house or pay a half loan, even if it is in the name of only one of them, because it is not a real situation" (great legal support!), "since no one buys a half house with someone with whom he does not associate any kind of relationship". Other important obligations that have left thousands of people and families (thousands) unsustainable, such as when already receiving GIR and spending excessive, the office does not have to assess whether they are justified or not, or whether the benefit is applied to basic needs coverage: "Through the UAS, isolated expenses that are detected above 200 euros and those where the sum of non-core expenses exceeds 200 euros in three consecutive months will be transferred". In other words, there are limitations on how people have to make use of their economic means, without people knowing it. But there is also a ban on leaving or moving outside the Basque Autonomous Community without a permit: in the case of persons who receive GIR in the form of social inclusion, fifteen days; in persons who charge it as a supplement to employment, thirty days. But this people don't know. In addition to this, and in case I may be told that this has not been enforced as long as it has not been published, in case I may be told that this places citizens in legal uncertainty or does not breach the Transparency Act, on page 38 of a document published in this same institution it is stated: "The new criteria and the revised ones will apply from the date of publication of this document, that is to say, to all the processings that take place from the December 2014 payroll." And now, with night and lightness, and – you have to recognize it – good ability to manage institutions at your will, they publish this. This in which curiously all these things that I am naming have disappeared. And, as what I was going to ask you with the publication is answered, if I may, I would like to know whether it is published today I understand that it causes the decay of what has been applied until then, and if it is not, please advise, I ask you to answer it. But I also want to ask you how Lanbide is doing, or how you are doing as a political leader, to compensate and to repair the citizens who have seen their rights violated during all these years. Citizenship has said this, says Ararteko (it continues to say in the 2016 report), says social groups, says this Parliament when the Socialist Party seemed to care about this. Mrs Artolazabal, it is very sad that this government, in your view, is reacting only to a part of the citizenry and to the possible bad press. But even sadder is that there is a part of citizenship, among which are – do not forget – people who protest and who have been on hunger strike for more than fifteen days, which seems to only deserve their contempt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u115	The head of the table, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning again. I was planning to start my speech in a different way from what I am going to do, because, after the insults that have been made to me as a counselor, and this Government, accusing me of handling the institutions at my leisure, of acting with night and light, of talking about medals, and of assuming that their initiatives can be ridiculous or not, well, I would like to say to you at the moment that of course I have great respect for the initiatives that any parliamentary group does in this House, shares them or not; that my duty as a counselor is to attend to all these initiatives and to try to seek the general interest of all citizens. When he also tells me that I deserve my contempt for people who are on hunger strike, for, man, it seems to me that it is unfair and moreover that it is false, because everyone can exercise his rights as best suited to him or understand him, and I believe that they also have every right to defend their interests as they see fit. What I ask is only respect for all income-guarantee income earners, who are many and who believe that weak favor we do them with these assertions and with these affirmations. But, well, Mrs Guanche, I came here to answer the question you made on 11 January, which also, via writing, to a question that was put to me, and which I moved, as it could not otherwise be, I answered by asking you for a time limit to carry out a better answer. I wanted to convey to you that of course this Government, in the three months that I have led in this department, and I as a counselor, we have carried out an analysis, a diagnosis of the situation, and we have seen, prioritized and planned what initiatives, what I have identified, and what commitments the Government had from previous legislatures. This morning you have heard me here, and also in previous speeches, that the Department of Employment and Social Policy is working to improve the management and effectiveness of measures under Lanbide. This reflection work is part of this Government's commitment to seek excellence and improvement in the public services we manage. As far as the department I run is concerned, we are focused on improving Lanbide and other issues. On 15 December this Parliament called on the Government to promote a pact that would include changes in income security income. That request from the House called for a specific diagnostic report on all aspects of guarantee income, which we are already carrying out within the department. A report to be presented here on 15 May. Once this report has been presented, we know that there are deadlines that we need to implement in the parliamentary process, but we are already moving forward, and for this we are updating and improving and developing various initiatives within social policies. We are complying with the agreements that are being adopted in this Parliament, as it cannot be otherwise. Since assuming the responsibility of Employment and Social Policy Advisor on November 26, my first objective has been to analyse – as I said – and design a series of measures to improve the management of the department and to meet the needs of Basque citizens. It has been about three months since you raised this issue, and we have already done things. And I'm sorry that, well, we published yesterday... It's no coincidence, Mrs. Guanche. We have a plan... Don't make this gesture to me, sir... , because I certainly do not make any other gesture to you, and it seems to me a lack of respect towards me as a person and towards this institution to which I represent. In addition, and in relation to this issue, I have already answered you, as I have said, and during this time we have been making progress in carrying out this improvement in the processing and in the criteria of the regulation of guarantee income. He announced that in these months he would finish this work, and that we would publish it on the Lanbide page and on the portal of the Basque legislation Legegunea, and we have done so. If it bothers you that we are efficient and that we carry on our work within the time frame that we have set ourselves, then I am very sorry, but I will continue to do so. Of course, my intention has not been, as you have said, neither to make them ridiculous nor, of course, to do so nightly and light-heartedly. Make it clear to you, Mrs. Guanche. Having said that, I inform you that the definition and knowledge of the criteria for the processing of the guarantee income are a key element in the exercise of transparency and public service in the department; that these criteria are fundamental and must be known by the citizen, as they directly affect the improvement of the management of the guarantee income, and that, moreover, at this time we have already carried out another series of measures of improvement in Lanbide and also of improvement of the guarantee income, which we have already announced. Within the planning of the work of this first trimester we have prioritized this necessity, and that is why we have published on the Lanbide page these criteria, because we understand that it was our obligation. If you want, I'll publish them tomorrow, or I'll publish them in two days. I have a responsibility to manage the department, and what we understood was appropriate and convenient publication as soon as possible, with the aim that our citizens knew what the criteria were in the processing of income guarantee income. These criteria refer to units of coexistence, accommodation, clarifications on refugees, asylum, stateless persons and persons with subsidiary protection, topics related to labour issues, self-employment, self-employment, economic issues, property, procedure, assessment of economic rights and victims of domestic violence. Therefore, Mrs Guanche, you will see that we are fulfilling our government commitments, with Parliament and with the Ararteko, and with the citizenry, as we will continue to do. We had technical and political meetings with Ararteko, we knew his concern; we were respectful and sensitive in making the quick decisions, with the aim that these criteria for processing income guarantee income would be updated, knowing that there was a commitment from the last legislature to publish them in the first half of 2016. When we do it fast, because we do it fast; when we delay, because we delay. Mrs Guanche, we have a planning, the department has many objectives and many challenges to achieve, and we are fulfilling, according to the criteria, teamwork and identified needs, with the planning that the department has been endowed with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u117	Andreak: Well, Mrs.Artolazabal, I didn't mean to insult; I just intended to record how things have been. I applaud, I applaud that they have published it, it was about time, and I said everything I said because I think it was a long time ago that this should be published. What I no longer applaud so much, and it draws my attention, is that, curiously, there are many things that have been leaving many people (persons with faces, with stories) with many breaches, many precautionary suspensions, extinctions, accumulation of infringements..., who do not know that they have had to fulfill all this, and that they have spent years without being able to charge, that they have had to go to trial... There are issues, for example, exits from the autonomous community, which have many rulings in favour of income-guarantees and those that Lanbide has ignored... There are many procedures that to this day remain unimplemented... So I welcome the fact that they have published the criteria. What I want to know is whether these new criteria, where everything that generated a conflict in the citizenry has disappeared, which has been denouncing Lanbide's bad practices in recent years, I want to know whether that is behind or that is going to continue to apply, even if the criteria that are published are others. And I want to know not because I have a special intention to discuss with you here, but because I have a special intention to improve the income guarantee system, and I think that goes through it. And I'm sorry if you've been disturbed by the expression of nightliness and lightness, but I think a document published at ten o'clock in the night, ten and a half concretely, well, at least it's a coincidence that gives you something to think about. However, if it bothers you I have no problem considering the possibility that I am wrong and this you have not done to annoy me. I don't think I'm that important. I don't think I'm that important, really. Nor do I consider myself so clumsy, nor do I consider that this I am telling you has had anything to do with last night's publication. But, in any case, that is already in another area, because the important thing is that this is published. I'm surprised that, between what I've been able to look at, because obviously I haven't been able to look at much... I'm surprised at two things. The first is that, with regard to your response to the publication of this document, you told me that the review is expected to be completed in the coming months. This answer is issued on March 21, and, well, let's say it's been a very short time. I was surprised, and I hoped that the criteria document would come here. I insist. I am surprised, in addition to this, that I have found on page 21 of this new document, which raises some issues that I do not want to go into in depth, because I want to study it calmly, but which I am concerned about, because in my opinion they leave people who are in an irregular situation out of access to GIR. It is the obligation to present the NIE of foreign persons after three months of residence in the State. I ask: Is it another thing you have had to negotiate in exchange for budgets, or is this coming out of yourself? To me personally the Income Guarantee Act seems something to defend, the income guarantee system seems something to take care of, but what I do not think is that we take steps back looking elsewhere and making people believe that we are not doing that. I think his swallows are wide. I don't drink.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u119	I, Mrs Guanche, also do not drink with the demagogy that some political formations carry out on the basis of what is the improvement of income guarantee income. Honestly, it does seem insulting to me to say that I run the institutions at my own will. I think it is insulting, and also very serious, which I certainly do not share, and I think it is also unfair. I have been, as I told you before, since 26 November as a counselor to this government, and you cannot ask me for miracles, because those are only in Lourdes. And I believe that for the four months I have been in charge of the government, I have put in place important measures that I believe will improve the access of citizens to the administration, the improvement of guarantee income, their training, etc. That we're efficient and that we do it quickly bothers them? Well, I'm so sorry. We will continue to work with this same rigour and with this same intensity to keep moving forward, which is why people have placed us on this responsibility. That the criteria to be applied are those that are published? Of course! It's just that that's obvious. You don't even have to ask. And that in exchange for the support that the People's Party is going to give to the budgets we have to be, in each of the interventions in the social field, which is for me to answer, justifying it? No, I think it's out of place. The budgets are being dealt with, social policy is being dealt with, and, of course, not at all, Mrs Guanche, nothing has been done in this case with the People's Party as to what the criteria for the processing of income security income have to be. And, man, I'm also surprised and annoyed that you're the only ones who stand up for the social protection system, which seems to be what's always blaming me every time it comes out to the rostrum. Because I would like to remind you that for thirty years, or more, this country has had a system of social protection that has gradually improved with the incorporation and decisive commitment of this Government and of the governments that have preceded us, with support and consensus and, above all, on occasion unanimously, that this is something that must be highlighted... On the one hand, and on the other, we are all day putting social systems as a bold weapon, in the field of politics, it seems to me that, in fact, weak favor we are going to do to keep moving forward. I think we have an enviable model of social protection in the state. No autonomous community, no one has a social protection model like the one Euskadi has, recognized by all the autonomous communities. At European level we have social services which are also recognised. Even Lanbide herself, despite the inefficiency that some people want to transfer, the lack of work and the rigour that others also want to accuse her, I think it is a model and example of employment service both at state and European level. And I therefore believe that we should all support positive progress. I would simply like to convey to you also that this Government has demonstrated on many occasions, and also today, the commitment decided by the income guarantee system, because we believe that it is a measure that affects citizens in worse situations, that it is improving the quality of life of those people, that it is helping them to have an opportunity, and that we have to continue to bet on that income guarantee income, which is what we do. We are committed to reform; that reform must ensure the sustainability of that system and model today and in the future, and I hope, Mrs Guanche, that the contributions of your group, in the process of improving the proposal that the Government brings to this Parliament, will improve in an important way, if possible, the proposal that the Government is submitting. I say this to you sincerely and without any acrid: I look forward to your work so that in the end we can make the model better and better and meet the needs of the citizens of Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "The question is, that Euke Arana Varas, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos, belonged to the head of the Board of Education, concerning the educational Rights of the people of LGTBI." Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u121	Good noon, everyone. Mrs Uriarte, in the last month we have learned that in public schools a diagnostic test has been carried out with documentation to be completed by boys and girls with questions designed from a traditional and heteropatriarchal family conception. What measures will the Basque Government take to ensure the withdrawal of such documentation and the design and implementation of non-discriminatory documentation for children and their families in the field of education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u122	Thank you, Ms. Arana. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u123	President andrea. Ms. Arana, first of all, I'd like to remark that the Board of Education has a provocative attitude in regard to multiplicity in the field of inclusive school. That's one of the strategic parts of the department's department. All the actions which education exercises or impels with regard to the sexual variety, are placed in the sphere of the plan of the three apprenticeships in which it started, in the direction of the guidance of the community and of the prevention of the genus power. These actions are necessary to ensure the respect for multiplicity, and to ensure a proper protection against all sorts of discriminations, social retreats, or profligacy, and the law of 14/2012, not to neglect the identity of the genera, and to acknowledge their rights further than they require. The plan, as you are well aware, proposes that educational institutions should take a comprehensive and strategic approach to the co-education, equality and prevention of gender-based violence and should be integrated into the learning of all competencies. I understand that your question must relate to the diagnostic assessment tests that have been carried out in all public and private centres of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and in which the fourth primary and second primary education students of the ESO have participated. Indeed, we have had two requests for clarification from two families, dated 15 and 17 March, which have already been properly analysed and answered, always open to proposals for improvement that are referred to us and that allow us to improve the questionnaires of future evaluations.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u125	Thank you. I will begin by reading some fragments of the document I mentioned in the question, so that we all know what we are talking about. I quote: "In the first questions we ask you information about your father and mother. In the event that your family is made up of two parents, you must answer them in the light of your family situation." Of course, here children living with grandparents or other adults in their care are totally excluded. The text goes on to say: "For example, if you have two parents, the information about the first parent should be done in the questions where he asks the father " (obviously!), "and about the second father, in the questions where he asks mother. " Having this document circulated through the schools is really serious, Mrs Uriarte. Very serious. The message is clear: the normal thing is to have a father and a mother. If you don't, you, child or child, have to take it into account, and put your family in shoes to respond properly. Symbolically, for boys and girls it is an inquiry, it is a questioning and a warning about what it means to leave the family model imposed by sexism and discrimination: you have to adapt, you have to pretend that you have a normal family. Very serious. This initiative, this question, is precisely in order to highlight the institutional practices that still violate the rights of trans people, the LGBTI population, homoparent families and society as a whole. And, of course, of the children, as citizens in full right and with a specific legal status for their care and protection, who in this case not only are not recognized their family model, but are asked to fulfill it by adapting their family reality to the traditional and heteropatriarchal model underlying the document. Chapter I of the Act on the Care and Protection of Children and Adolescents establishes among its basic rights the free and full development of personality and the right to equality. This is not being done. The field of education is key to the promotion and promotion of new principles and values in society, including the socialization of children in spaces free of discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation, gender identity or various family arrangements. As you know, the Berdindu service, called Berdindu Eskolak, provides advice and training to teachers in educational institutions interested in working on sexual and gender diversity and issues of LGBTI discrimination. It also offers technical support and personalized basic training to teachers in centres interested in integrating the perspective of sexual and gender diversity into their educational or curriculum project. In order to improve the policies that must ensure the rights of the LGBTI population, as established by law, also because it is ethical and of social justice, we must point out that both in the initial provision of the service and in this second line of work we draw attention to the fact that the proposal is addressed to the centers with interest. We understand that the exercise and enforcement of rights must not depend on the will of the professionals of an educational institution, which leaves access to them in the hands of individuals, creates conditions of inequality between educational institutions, and children suffer from it. We believe that rights should be guaranteed through a clear institutional policy consistent with our rules, which minimizes the discretion and presence in the classrooms of individual beliefs or principles that are contrary to them. It is the responsibility of the Basque Government and the Department of Education to immediately withdraw the documentation that we have mentioned, because maintaining this documentation is to deny children from homoparent families or other family models the possibility of completing a document in which their families are recognized. This means denying, tacitly questioning, and invisibly making your family invisible. That is, a violation of their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u126	Thank you, Ms. Arana. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u127	As I have shown in my first turn, when you use the word documentation in your question, it is to be considered that you mean the context questions, or the context questions, which make up the diagnosis of each competition. In detail, ISEI-IVEI received a complaint on the ignostic evaluation of 2017, on the 16th of March, which is mentioned in your question. This request was examined, and answered well enough. Besides, in the given reply, ISEI-IVEI offered the opportunity to go to school and see it in the place where it was, on a computer, how the questionnaire was composed and how the spring was to be fulfilled. In order to clarify all aspects that may give rise to doubts and concerns, I would like to comment. In the introductory annex to the booklet entitled "Some Questions" of the student's questionnaire to take home the primary education room, explanations are given in order to facilitate the response of the student whose families, being made up of two parents, had had difficulties in previous years. The introductory annex does not at any time mention separated families. The software has been implemented by providing for the option of single-parent families. In fact, it is perfectly possible to reply to the above-mentioned questionnaire without providing information on any of the partners. The criterion transferred to the evaluators allows the information of the parents in our computer application to remain unanswered. All applicators have an instruction booklet to properly develop diagnostic assessment 17, and at no time do they indicate that their response is mandatory. In any event, if such an indication had been given in any case, it would not have been in accordance with the established procedure. ISEI-IVEI ensures that the software has enabled and will continue to enable it to be answered by all types of families. In short, we do not believe that there has been discrimination against children and families, as you say, which does not prevent us from always being prepared to make improvements in the questionnaires, for which we could take into account the suggestions made to us, provided that they relate to specific aspects of the tests or questionnaires.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The fourteenth point on the subject list... (Bearnestly.) Please, Mrs. Arana, please. Your turn is finished. "The question is, Juana de Bengoechea Espekal Group members of the High Educational Department of Education, concerning the Extrast Plant. " Mrs. De Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u129	Thank you, Madam President. We come here today to ask you a question, Madam Counsellor, about the Strategic Plan for School Living, because we know that in the Basque Country, in Basque, there is a certain concern on the subject, but we find that the efforts are very diverse. We have, for example, the plan that the Ikastolas hold, but which applies to them. We know that work has been done, but we see all the efforts very compartmentalized. We know the plan for prevention and action in the field of education in the face of situations of possible lack of protection and abuse, harassment and sexual abuse; we know the agreement signed between Education and the Department of Security, the guide against abuse, the study being done by ISEI, the plan for the prevention of gender-based violence in the education system..., that is, many instruments, but we do not see them all gathered together in one that represents leadership on the part of the Administration. At the moment we have this other instrument, which is the Strategic Plan for School Living, and we would like to know your position on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u131	Mrs. President of the Parliament. Mrs Bengoechea, our educational system has the fundamental purpose of providing each and every one of its citizens with personal, social, cultural, functional and professional tools that will facilitate the achievement of a full and satisfactory life as an independent individual and as part of a healthy and modern society, with ethical values and principles that contribute to the dignity of our human condition and to the progress towards a society in which we all belong and to which we all feel part. In this sense, what does Eucharin study, research, and education involve in the last few years? That it is necessary to work together through prevention, even based on the work of teachers and school managers. In this sense, the course of our educational authority has been observed. You mentioned it. The trajectory of our community in the development of positive coexistence in our schools is broad and solid in terms of the level of development in terms of plans, protocols and other measures: in the year 2000, the first programme of educational coexistence in the centres of the Autonomous Community; in the years 2007 and 2010, the programme for the coexistence, peace and human rights; the guide for action in educational institutions in the face of school harassment for the first time in the course of 2004-2005, being the last modification of 2015; Decree 2001/2008 of 2 December on the rights and duties of students of non-university educational institutions of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country; in 2014, the master plan for the co-education and prevention of gender violence in the educational system; or the guide for the elaboration of the centre's coexistence plan last year. Finally, this school year has formed a working group in the field of coexistence that is developing what will be the plan of prevention and detection in the face of school harassment, taking into account all the journey made. That is to say, I would point out to you that in the development of our competences there are various initiatives that have been developed for a long time in Euskadi, and that they will have the final point in the next plan.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u133	Counselor, no one doubts that this is the vocation of the Department of Education. It just couldn't be any other way. It is the vocation of any civilized society. However, as I say to you, you have also mentioned to me the different actions and actions that are taking place, but we miss the leadership of the department to have a single form of action. We have been offered the Strategic Plan for School Living, and in this area I hear a lot about "Madrid, Madrid, Madrid...". Let's see, who makes up this strategic plan? I read it as it is in the document: Andalusia, Aragon, the Principality of Asturias, Illes Balears, Canarias, Cantabria, Castilla-La Mancha, Castilla-León, Extremadura, Galicia, La Rioja, the Community of Madrid, the Valencian Community, Ceuta and Melilla have participated. So, what I'm sorry for is that we're not here, if you want primus inter pairs (the best among the equals), but it seems to me that not participating in this kind of thing is a loss. Let's see, here we are 2,150,000 people working together, and we belong to a community in which at least, from what I've read to you, there are 39 million people thinking together, talking together and trying to achieve the optimal result. And we, in front of those 39 million people (which are two million and... I don't know if we get to two hundred thousand), stand apart, locked up on ourselves, thinking that we are no more going than no more going, and being unable to do that which on the other hand I have heard many times to the praise lehendakari, which is to practice dialogue. Counselor, our position is that we have a personality strong enough not to feel threatened by dialogue and inclusion. So, we really urge you to include the efforts of your department in these areas (which are not Madrid's, are of all these people, of those 39 million inhabitants). Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u135	Bengoeche was walking. As I have mentioned in my turn, some of the exams and education-practics which have been performed during the past few years, they insist on sharing their lives through prevention, and by the productive work of teachers. We are aware that it is necessary to encourage the actions which tend to prevention, as has been shown by the long course of proceeding hitherto, in proportion as we can perform prevention and make a diagnosis, to diminish the cases which may become a school revolt. That's our goal and we're working for it. And we offer the work we do. Our last step is to draw up a plan for prevention and detection of school harassment. The development of this plan within the framework of the educational centre must have a cross-cutting and interdisciplinary character, in connection with the centre cohabitation plan, the primary purpose of which will be to provide the student with the necessary tools to learn to live together. In this sense, and as I have moved, the commitment of my department is firm and determined in the search for solutions. And, to the question that you raise, in some way you have given the answer, which is what the minister himself gave: it is a plan, which the minister raises, which is not legislative in nature, which is an instrument of coordination, and which the minister makes available to the autonomous communities, which have the powers and in their development develop their own plans. In this sense, at the conference itself last week most communities indicated this. In another case, we would be faced with an invasion of competences, in addition to not involving a section of resources. For our part, we offer ours. But one thing is to work, but our first commitment is to Euskadi, and that's what we do.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 15th point in the theme list: "Ask me, Juan Uria Serrana, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the chief physician of the Medical Department, concerning the beginning of Zalla's special center." Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u137	Good morning, everyone. Lonely Tejeria, good morning. Good morning, compañeros y compañeras parlamentaris, chiefs. It's a day to be happy, Mr. Darpón. They leave us in Parliament four minutes to you and four minutes to me to talk on World Health Day about some health problems. Let's get to the task. We've got a mess in Zalla, Mr. Darpón. The process of managing the promised construction of Zalla's specialty centre is an example of inefficiency and how one gets embarrassed to make small problems a big problem. A big problem that has bewildered Zalla's neighbors and neighbors. A big problem that has bewildered the team of medical professionals and nurses of the current health center of Zalla, the City of Zalla and municipalities of the Enkarterri region, and the citizen platform itself, which insists on interviewing you to inform you of your commitments in this legislature. Indeed, in 2007 three high-resolution centres for Bizkaia, Gernika, Urduliz and Zalla, were promised from the Health Council, managed by the Basque Nationalist Party. The first two (the second as a hospital) have already opened: Gernika in 2013, and in July 2016 Urduliz, not without few problems. But with regard to Zalla's new specialty centre, absolutely nothing has been done to date. Well, sorry, they invested, in 2010, 348,631 euros in the architectural project, which they seem to have lost. What do you intend to do, Mr. Counsellor, with the EUR 140,000 that have been reserved in the budgets this year for the health centre in Zalla?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u138	Thank you, Mr. Uria. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u139	Mr. President, members of the legislature, Mr. Uria, good noon to all. I'm sure it's very interesting to build a new health rate in the Encrean. For different reasons, the project has not been able to go on until now, but I want to make it clear that the government has never given up the opportunity to build in Zella a health center and speciality center. Now it's time to make a new medical and special center. We are engaged to build on this new law, and we will keep our word. Mr Uria, your current concern about Zalla's specialty health centre is drawing attention. You asked me at the budget appearance, where I explained that it was going to be done; you asked me again in writing, and you ask me again today. Very recent concern, because the electoral program of Elkarrekin We can not collect any infrastructure for Zalla. However, given the circumstances that affect this infrastructure, not by asking you will be able to run before. As I'm sure you know, I personally visited the health center in Zalla, and I didn't notice any problems among the staff last year. I was in the election campaign in Zalla accompanying my party. It has been received in the Department of Health on the platform (not by the counselor, by the territorial delegate of Bizkaia, who is the corresponding one). And I have received, requesting a hospital, twenty-five signatures in a collection of signatures; that is, a lot of empty leaves, and a leaf and a half with twenty-five signatures. The Basque Government plans to build a new health and specialty centre in Zalla. This possibility has been discussed for a long time, and it was decided that the project would be addressed when the circumstances of the location and economic situation advised it, circumstances that have changed over time. As you know, the land transferred by the City Council of Zalla is qualified by the Basque agency URA since 2013 (I will repeat it again: since 2013, the first year of the last legislature) as floodable, and they continue thus, which has made its construction impossible to date, so it will be from when the land ceases to be floodable when actions for the construction of the new center can be addressed. In the meantime, the reform of the drafting of the implementation project will be carried out this year, for which a budget line is provided in the budget project, which, as you know, has designated this department.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u140	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u141	Thank you. Mr. Darpón, thank you for the vehemence of the answer. You also have to be used to being asked things from time to time. There are no people from Podemos in the health center of Zalla neither in the city hall, nor on the citizen platform... Don't worry about it. Do you know what's going on? That from time to time we have some problems that we like to see in situ (on the site) how they work, and we've been downtown last week, we've been in town hall, and we've also been with URA technicians. Management is inadequate, undemocratic, and the future we do not yet know. It is true that, surprisingly, an additional EUR 200,000 has been approved by the PP as an amendment to that investment, rejecting our amendment of EUR 2 million, which seems to us to be more appropriate and has to do with building the promised centre. We are aware of the problems reported by the Basque Agency for Water-URA in its day regarding the floodability of the assigned land; problems solved today, in official writing. We know that the accessibility conditions of Zalla have changed, that the type of specialty center that the Department of Health is likely to be affected will have to be remodeled. We also know that more than 34,000 of Enkarterri's neighbors and neighbors still don't know what's going to happen to the promised center nearly ten years ago. It is a bad example of the management capacity of our Department of Health. That's a bad example, counselor. We think we need to be more with people, explain the plans under way, report, and, even if he changes mayor, that it is neither an obstacle nor an obstacle nor a fence, keep the promises made. And in this case they're more than promises. These are real needs to ensure decent health care to one of the areas of Euskadi, together with the Left Margen, with the highest mortality and morbidity rate for all causes, according to the maps consulted on the website of the Department of Health itself. You like to say in your speeches that you are going to reduce health inequalities, and that...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u142	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u143	... ...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u144	Your time is up. Mr. Uria, please! You're out of time and you have to keep your time. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u145	Uria jauna, I'm glad you went to Zalla last week. I've gone several times, in the last legislature I've gone several times. Don't be arrogant about the representation of Enkarterri's group of neighbors. He doesn't have it! Look at the election: you don't have it. We've known each other for a long time, and this is the first time you've asked me about Zalla, except for what you asked in budgets when we announced that we were booking a budget line. I am glad that an amendment of EUR 2 million has been rejected, because, as it were to build a bridge over the Cadagua, as long as the land is hardly flooded there will be able to execute EUR 2 million in eight months. We must have a little budgetary responsibility. Look, the health centre and specialties of Zalla, for the needs of the neighbors of Zalla and Enkarterri, will be addressed in time and form, and will be addressed when the land ceases to be flooded. Because the work – I suppose you have been told by URA technicians – is not yet executed, and eighteen months are planned.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u146	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The 16th point in the theme list: "The question is, the parliamentary members of Carmelus Barrio Barroja Popula, made of Cultura and the chief of the political departments of Language, about the Museum of Place Chillida." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u147	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselors, good morning again. From Chillida Leku, Mr. Zupiria, let's talk again. It's not the first time in the last few legislatures. This Parliament has heard various initiatives and appearances about the future of Chillida Leku. In the past legislature negotiations were deployed by the Basque Government, first, following the preparation of a report commissioned by the Department of Culture on the situation of the museum, its needs, its strategic vision and its immediate course. Unfortunately, in the field and in the period of the cultural capital San Sebastián 2016 there was bad news. There's been some bad news. There was a lot of good news (I've done an interesting cultural process), but well, that announcement of the break-up of the negotiations, with Mr.Olano's cold water jar at the head of the Gipuzkoa Foreign Office, in July 2016. But we are in another legislature on the part of his mandate. Of course, we already talked about that in a general way in your appearance, on time, I mean on time on this subject, but well, there has been a time to sit down, for you to analyse the situation, and I would like to know what actions the Basque Government intends to undertake in relation to the future of Chillida Leku, which is, as everyone knows, one of the most impressive cultural spaces in the world. We have it, fortunately, here in the Basque Country, but it's closed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u148	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u149	Mrs. President, ladies and gentlemen of the legislature, good morning to all of you. Mr Barrio, indeed, there have been several occasions when you have asked us this same question, and also always in very similar terms. In our appearance before the Committee on Culture, Linguistic Policy and Sports, in which we presented our projects for this parliamentary term, on 27 January he asked us what we had planned with regard to Chillida Leku, and in the appearance on budgets, on 2 March, he emphasized that he had not found in the preliminary draft any items related to Chillida Leku. And today I will insist on my answer, and I will do nothing but reiterate what I have already said to you on the two previous occasions. Indeed, the past legislature from the Basque Government carried out an intense and prolonged effort of relationship and negotiation with the institutions of Gipuzcoana and with the representation of the family of the artist to form a cultural project that ensured the opening of Chillida Leku and allowed the management of its artistic heritage. The Government led that process by understanding that it was an initiative that gave consistency and wealth to the cultural offering of Euskadi, and because it believed that the Gipuzcoan institutional leaders were interested in its development. It was a long and intense negotiation, which lasted almost the entire legislature, but despite the significant progress that was made, it was not possible to reach agreement between the Government, the Gipuzkoa Foral Diputation and the Chillida family. In this failed outcome, the opposition of the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council was decisive, which, in view of the immense effort involved in the operation, decided to stay out of negotiation, and understood that this decision was the most appropriate one to defend the general interest of the Gipuzcoan territory. The Government had complied with the out-of-court decision from the point of view of institutional respect, and had decided, in turn, to suspend the negotiation, on the grounds that any project of this magnitude must necessarily count on the commitment of the relevant territorial institutions; in the case of Chillida Leku, the Gipuzkoa Foral Diputation. The Basque Government therefore does not intend to resume this project unilaterally under these conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u150	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u151	Yes, thank you, President. Thank you, counselor. Well, that's not good news, no. It's not good news, because, after seeing what Chillida Leku is and is supposed to be, and what Chillida Leku has to assume at some point for our cultural panorama and for our cultural settlement (it is already, but it has to be much more), it's not good news that doesn't have that pretence..., he has spoken of "unilateral", in a moment I will ask him some more concrete question. But it is that Chillida Leku, let's see – and that was said in the report of Lord Cultural Resources, a very complete report and which also founded the negotiation in the last legislature – Chillida Leku is a unitary work and is an exceptional work, unique in the world. We cannot take risks in this area. It's not a museum, he says. Chillida Leku is a viable space, visitable, but it's not a museum, it's something else. It is an unprecedented cultural exceptionality in the world, by the hand of one of the most important artists, the most important sculptors in history. There's got to be something. Chillida Leku is a space of creation, and it has to be and it should be permanent and dynamic. That's Chillida Leku's key as that monographic space, but not an isolated place for creators, as they say. That is the concept we should have in relation to the ambition of the future and of our cultural policy and of our cultural management. Chillida Leku is also a viable long-term space, which is the fundamental but long-term element. But he's got short-term risks, and that's what... We have nothing like it in Euskadi, and there is nothing like it in Spain and Europe! There are other important things, but there has to be something. And I'd like to ask you... I was going to ask you what steps you will take in the near future and you have told me that none, but have you spoken to the Gipuzkoa Foreign Office to change your position on this issue? Because I have to tell you that an agreement was almost reached, the agreement was imminent, and it was in the election period when Mr. Olano went back. Now we are not in an electoral period, and some of the issues can be matured. Have you spoken, or are you planning to talk to Mr. Olano and convince him that...?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u152	Thank you, Mr. Barrio... I'm happy, Mr. Zupiria, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u153	Barrio jauna, the Government is clear that one of its functions is to support those we consider tractor projects and events. Tractors for the importance they have for the development of cultural activity and also for the effects of all kinds, especially cultural, that they have in their environment. Our commitment in this regard has also been clearly set out for this legislature, and we have expressed it, and has been a constant in the cultural policies that have developed in Euskadi. That is why the Government decided in its day to support and participate in outstanding projects, such as the Bilbao Museum of Fine Arts, the San Sebastián Film Festival, the Quincena Musical Donostia, the Guggenheim Museum, support for the San Telmo Museum, Artium, the Santa Maria Cathedral Foundation, the Añana Salad Valley project, the European cultural capital of Donostia in 2016, or, more recently, the International Centre for Contemporary Culture Tabakalera. And in all cases we have done so by the hands of the outside institutions, in some cases the corresponding municipalities, the central government of the State or even the private initiative. That's how we understand our participation. We believe that the project in which Chillida Leku is included has a tractor character, and we have reiterated this in all the forums in which we are present. Therefore, if the conditions were met last summer we could reconsider it again, but only on the basis of the assumptions I have previously commented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u154	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "Interpation, Myria Llanos Gómez, member of the Popula team, made for the head of the Security Department to face emergency services on SOS Deos-112." Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u155	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning (already good afternoon, by the hour) to all. Madam Counsellor, at the first plenary session of this Parliament, almost the first plenary sessions, we are debating in this House on this very matter, on what is an essential service, Emergency Service 112, a service which, in accordance with Article 17 of our Statute of Autonomy, is a service of our competence, a service which is far more than a telephone number, because its function is to coordinate all the institutions which, in times of emergency and emergency, can help citizens. And a service that clearly has a public character, as has been said in this House, the last time by yourself, regarding the presentation of your department's budgets, which in that commission literally pointed out that it was not a service that was outsourced, but that was managed by the Emergency Directorate itself. I mean, his management was public. And we share that public nature of the service, because, as we have said on many occasions, a service does not cease to be public because it is not provided directly by officials or staff of the Administration, but it remains public even if that service is subcontracted, as is this, that its management or the provision is done through the company Lanalden, which is the awardee of the last competition. We are, as I said, faced with a reference service in Euskadi, a service of care to the public at difficult times, in times of emergency and emergency, and therefore, if all public services have to be effective, in this case quality has to be one of its characteristics, and it is. It is true that quality is one of the characteristics of this service, and it is mainly by its workers, by the staff. And I speak in feminine because it is primarily women who work in this service, women who are able to empathize with whom you are calling at that time, to give a human response, effective and fast at hard and distressing times for whom you are making the call. A staff of great professionalism, as you yourself also acknowledged, Madam Counsellor, in that Committee on Finance. And, therefore, the first question I want to move is, given the importance that women workers have in the provision of this service, since they are a fundamental part of it, if they have met with them. As far as this group knows, we believe it has not met, but we wanted to be confirmed. Because since the adoption of the non-law proposal in Parliament, there has been no change in the employment situation of women workers, and, as I told you, neither you nor your department have contacted to hold any meeting or to try to solve the problems we raise. The workers have tried to contact the Deputy Security Adviser to set up a meeting, but the answer received has been the impossibility of holding it, because the agenda was very complete. And I want to question you, Counselor: don't you and the Deputy Security Advisor have a moment to be able to meet with the workers? Can't you really meet with the people who attend to this service? I'm telling you, we've been moved, it hasn't been like that. I would like to confirm whether it is true that they have not met, and, if they have not, what is the reason. Is your schedule really so full that it doesn't take half an hour to be with people who are a fundamental part of that service? Because I must reiterate to you what was said here in that plenary. One of the reasons why the debate on the 112 service was brought here in this House was precisely to make known the status of the service, so that from the Government it would be known what position the people who were providing that service were in, because they had not been received. And it seems that today we are still in the same situation. A number of issues were also highlighted in that plenary, and a compromise amendment was finally adopted between the Elkarrekin Podemos group and our group urging your department to make a number of issues. A number of problems were also raised. Firstly, and as I said to him, the staffing situation, a situation that is important, the situation in which it is, because it influences the quality of service. The staff, we have already told you, is insufficient at this time for the attention of the service; therefore, there are occasions when there are calls that are not answered in time, because there are not enough operators. And in this case the response time is vital. Vital, because in many cases it is urgent to send the service in question at every moment, and vital because of the distress situation that the person who calls at that time is going through, and that any minute of delay seems to him a century. The number of calls, as I say, has been increasing, and yet the staff, far from remaining stable, has even decreased. And to this must be added the need to create a work bag for layoffs and replacements, because at this moment, when one occurs, they are the workers themselves among them, and it is losing periods of rest as they have to cover them. And that is why we also want to question you, Counsellor: Do you know that there are shifts in the service of attention, dispatch and coordination of emergency calls SOS Deiak-112 in which not all posts are covered because the current contractor lacks a retention service? In the next papers, are you going to force this detention service to be put in? We also called for the subrogation of workers to be included in the next package. This would result in employment stability and quality of service maintenance. Because I was saying then, and I want to reiterate it now, that it is a service in which the knowledge and preparation of staff is very important. In addition to preparation, possession of other qualities. It is so important that the brochure itself requires that these women workers have a range of knowledge. In the previous recruitment it happened that the subrogation did not occur, and it is true that it continued with the same staff, because obviously it is those who have the training and those who have that preparation, but, since the subrogation was not, they maintained their employment but under worse conditions, which is an unfair situation. That is why we believe it is appropriate, so that the service remains a quality service, that in the new recruitment, as I say, it follows the same staff but without losing rights, and our legislation allows it. And that is why we would also like to ask you, Commissioner, whether the possibility of subrogation is envisaged in these new leaflets. Because in that Finance Committee where you were talking about your department's budget, you did refer to the processing of documents, and we want to ask you what stage that processing and drafting is at. We understand that this service has not yet entered the competition, because the specifications have not been completed, but we want to ask you when those specifications are expected to be drafted and the service goes to the competition. At the moment, therefore, the service is in extension, or so we understand, and we also wanted to question you about the economic and operational conditions under which the service has been extended, and whether there is a document containing the extension, as well as the quantitative and qualitative conditions of the extension. As you were told, Commissioner, following the adoption in Parliament of that compromise amendment concerning the emergency call service SOS Deiak-112, a number of actions were required of your Government, and we therefore want you to explain to us what the Basque Government has done to fulfil that mandate of Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u156	Thank you, Miss Llanos. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u157	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Well, in answer to the question you asked me at the inquiry, look, Mrs Llanos, meetings with the workers of the 112 telephone service are commonplace. They are common between management staff and the workers themselves, meetings at the operational level for all those issues that have to do with the provision of the service, logically. For this purpose, the necessary channels are established, because they are, as you have said, an essential public service, subject to professional management and evaluation parameters, well structured in the Basque Emergency Service. I repeat, as you said, the emergency call service received in 112 is a public service attached to the Emergency Directorate within the Basque emergency care system, with workers managed through a subcontracted company. The specifications are currently being processed to re-bid the service and to award it, where and as appropriate, to the company that best meets the requirements. And that is why, in answer to your question, specifically, whether I am going to meet or whether the department is going to meet the workers, I have to be honest with you and I will tell you that we are not going to meet the workers, nor with a representation, nor even with the company. We are not meeting to deal with issues that are alien or that may interfere with the recruitment process. And we are not going to do it, sincerely, because it is not appropriate, because what we now have is to launch the public tender, to launch the contract in accordance with the provisions of the Public Administration Contracts Act itself. It is therefore up to us, as you said, to define the specifications well, to lay down the bases with sufficient legal certainty, to evaluate later the tenders which may be submitted to the invitation to tender, and indeed to award to that undertaking which best complies with those conditions. Would you understand, Mrs Llanos, that we would condition this process with the inclusion of issues or agreements outside of our own recruitment, with agreements or clauses previously agreed with workers or even with a particular company? You wouldn't understand it, of course, nor would the law allow it. The law was clear in that regard, and it said that the clauses in the specification could under no circumstances replace obligations of compliance laid down by collective agreements themselves. That working conditions should therefore be regulated within the scope of collective bargaining, and not through the contract specifications. They must be regulated within the relevant sector and within the scope of normalised relations between the contracting undertaking and the contracted staff. I'm sorry to tell you, but this is our point of view. And with regard to the non-law proposal passed on January 26th, I have to tell you that much of those points are also a toast to the sun. And they are because from the legal point of view they are not applicable to the service concerned. They propose that the service be included within the public organizational structure. From the legal point of view, and you have expressed it here, it is impossible to publish what is already public, which is not privatized. The telephone service 112 already belongs to the public organisational structure: it belongs to the Euskadi Emergency Coordination Centre, attached to the Directorate of Emergency and Meteorology. It is therefore already within the general administration and the public structure. What we have, as I said, is to award the service to the company that best guarantees the service. They also referred to section 26 of the reform of the Emergency Management Act in the non-legislative proposal, and referred to the above-mentioned section to argue and demand that staff handling emergency calls be included in the public organizational structure for emergency care in 112. But in reality, what this article proposes is that the public organizational formula be studied to make the provision of the emergency care system more effective. The article in question does not predetermine or detract in any case from the type of organization that might be advisable, and does not, of course, establish anything to suggest that the current subcontracting formula does not meet or meet the requirements of the service. Another of the clauses that you propose clashs head-on also with the basic law of public administration contracts. The Administration cannot require as a contractual condition that the contracting company be obliged to accept previously agreed working conditions, and you know it. Nor can it require an enterprise to increase or decrease its workforce. What the Administration does do is to establish the necessary staffing structure, which is necessary to meet the service being required. And these aspects are reflected in the specification of conditions in the contracting clauses, both for the ordinary provision of this service and for those occasions where reinforcements are necessary..., those times where such reinforcements are necessary because they are already planned situations, or because they are exceptional situations. It is already covered by the specifications. You also have a professional certification to prove the particularity of the work being done, and of course the professional training of women workers is not at issue from the department; on the contrary, the department's assessment of how to offer the service is professional and positive. Among other things, because the training required of persons attending the service is a requirement that is also reflected in the specifications. But in addition to the training plans that are required, there are audits, both internal and external; a requirement which, on the other hand, is embodied, I insist, in the specifications. Changing the specification in the sense of professional qualification would mean including... You propose that it be included in the current National Professional Qualifications Catalogue. In that case, Mrs Llanos, the amendment would have to be made..., it is precisely the amendment of the law which incorporates these qualifications, and it is logical that it should be presented to the Government of Spain. Moreover, it must be done with sufficient caution or by studying the terms of the proposal well, it is not going to be that in that case even the staff who are currently serving these services could be affected otherwise and be left out of the proposal. You said that, and I insist, the 112 call service is a reference service. Those receiving and responding to emergency calls are responsible for referrals to the relevant care services. More than 20% are served by medical personnel from Osakidetza, and no less than 15% by services from Bidegi, Interbiak, the maintenance and care services of the deputy roads, firefighters..., and a good part, a significant part also, by Ertzaintza, and, of course, by local police, who deal with accidental issues. 112 is the reference nuclear phone for emergency calls, and it will remain so. The responsibility of the department at the moment, and of the Government, is to draw up these specifications, well-written specifications, with legal certainty, to take safe steps, to take realistic steps, to continue to guarantee the best conditions for the employees of the company that is awarded, to ensure that these conditions are good, above all to ensure that the service provided is adequate, appropriate, and that it is a good service for Basque citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u158	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u159	Thank you again, Madam President. Madam Counsellor, I appreciate one thing from your answer: sincerity. You make it clear with that sincerity moreover I believe that one of the characteristics I do not know if in your personal life, but of course that in your political life, in the previous legislature, has remained palmary, which is that "gut" – I say it in quotes and ironically – for dialogue. The truth is that you already see yourself meeting and talking, so it's not something you like very much. It has not engaged in dialogue with the Ertzaintza trade union centres, and that is why it still has, to this day, demonstrations every week. And you have already said clearly and meridianly that you are not going to meet the workers. Look, I think politicians are about to listen to people, and a government that prides itself precisely on the importance of people, which states in a strict way that those who provide an essential service... But even if they do not provide an essential service, they are Basque citizens who want to raise a problem, they ask for a meeting to raise that problem, and that it is strictly said "I don't care, I won't receive them", the truth, therefore, says much at least about the character of their department. Because, look, I've had government responsibilities, and when a service was coming out, which was the home help service, I received the workers who provided that home help service. And it was a service that was also provided indirectly. I heard what his requests were, along with the technicians who were then to give that service, and it had no influence on who was later the contracting company of the service, but it helped a lot, precisely who wrote the specifications, to know what worked or didn't work in that service. I do not know if it influenced, but certainly in a positive way, and not in an illegal way precisely. Because in addition we in that initiative proposed not that the public nature of the service be given, which, I repeat, of course is a public service, but the service can be provided directly by officials or can be provided indirectly through a company, which is as it is at the moment. And what we were saying was that an economic assessment was made of what was more efficient for the Administration from a quantitative and qualitative point of view, whether it was a public service provided directly by officials, or whether it was a public service provided through a company. That I don't make any prejudices, this group doesn't make any prejudices. Obviously, if quantitatively and qualitatively it is better that it is borrowed as it is being provided at this time, we are totally in favour. That is, that it is a service that does not lose even a peak of quality because it is provided through a company and not directly by public officials. And in order not to lose a peak of its quality, it is necessary that working conditions are optimal conditions. Because, I tell you, it is a service provided by people, and whatever conditions those people work in directly affects the service. And one question I do want to ask you. You said they're not meeting. What I don't know is why your vice-advisor has put the excuse for agenda problems. That I would have been as clear and as sincere as you! "We're not going to receive them," directly. That I wouldn't have said "schedule problems." And I do want to ask you a question: haven't they met with the company? haven't they met with the company? Because this group has news that yes, but if you tell me no, then it will be so. But I repeat the question. And then he talks about the drafting of the terms and conditions. Listen, they are not the tables of Moses!, that there are precedents!, that I do not think it is too much to write it, especially considering that they are not going to introduce any newness and that they are not going to introduce any of the demands made by the workers! Because you have already made it clear, and meridianically, that to you what the workers think, that they are the first service providers and that therefore they should be the most listened to for the service to work optimally, that gives you exactly the same. Well, well, we – I'm warning you already – will put a motion, so that you don't give it that much, if you want to listen to the mandates of this Parliament. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u160	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u161	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Look, Mrs. Llanos, you can twist my words all you want, you can reinterpret my words all you want. I have commented to you and I have been honest with you: we are not going to meet with the workers, in this case, to deal with anything that might interfere with the specifications of the next contract. We know the needs perfectly, we know what works well, what needs to be implemented, what needs to be modified... I have already commented, internal and external audits are carried out, because this is also required in the specifications. I therefore believe that you will agree with me that there is no previous meeting to discuss anything that could interfere with the establishment of conditions in a subsequent contract. I stress again, the emergency call service, the 112 service, is a telephone service, a public service, which in Euskadi, as elsewhere, is actually provided through assistance, a service contract. But the responsibility for the service and the proper integration into the emergency coordination and relief mechanisms remains a public service, an integrated service in the Basque emergency system. And we are more than satisfied with the service that is being provided and how it is being carried out, both in those moments of ordinary attention and in those moments of extraordinary attention. And it will continue to be so, because the specifications already contain all those variants, all those conditions that will improve, as I say, and correct in the event of any deficiency. To make the workers believe that today they are providing this service in a professional way (I insist, in a very professional way) that there is some secret mechanism, some subterfuge so that they can have access to the public service in a direct way, without complying with what is laid down in the legislation, with the principles of equality, merit and capacity that govern these processes, for, look, what you want me to say, is to generate false expectations. We understand that we have a well-attended service and that it must continue to be managed in this way. We will do so, once again, by hiring the company to provide more guarantees and, logically, to better comply with the specifications laid down; by establishing subrogation clauses that comply with what is laid down in the law itself for these cases and that at the same time do not close the door to the possibility of 100 per cent of the subrogation; by facilitating the necessary management margins so that labour procurement issues can be addressed with guarantees in accordance with law, both by workers and by the contracting company; by giving priority to those companies that best propose the provision of the service, the social clauses that are legally possible, the most appropriate approaches to transition and subrogation, and other issues that are, logically, for the benefit of the service and also for the benefit of the persons who provide it. It is with these premises that we are working, on the one hand, to ensure that the tendering procedure conforms, I insist, to the principles of legality, to the principles of transparency, of free competition and of equal opportunities, and, of course, to ensure that the emergency call service, the 112 call service, remains for all of us and ourselves a reference service, an effective, efficient essential service, within what is actually part of the Basque emergency care system. We are and will continue to work on that line. Not sitting with women workers now means, in no way, that we do not know what their situations are, what their demands are of a work nature, what the conditions under which the service is provided, and what, as I say, are the guarantees of the provision of this service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u162	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. The 18th point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Jul's Arzuga Gumuzius EH Collectors of the Security Committee, the agreement to increase the forces of Efectians agreed on the Security Committee." Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u163	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to send a hug to Manu Cabacas and Fina Lizeran, on this fifth anniversary of your death, with all my heart. Mrs. Heetán de Heredia, on the 22nd of March, you consulted with the Home Office. The meeting, it is true, was not in any part of the Security Committee, but in an out-of-the-office meeting, in which you wish to represent the safety, in some way or other. Anyway, you talked about the security needs here, you talked about police resources, you talked about human resources, and then you were so happy that you could, in a way, increase the number of the most effective border operations. I'd like to ask you a question, which has two horns, in a way. In the first place, I should like to know, as the Ministry of the Interior of Spain has shown, whether these decisions are made to increase the plans of the security forces of the state, in some general plan. I mean, 6,000 national guards and police officers will be placed all over the state, and I want to know if here, in these three provinces, will be raised in that number of the Civil Guard and the National Police. In another section, I'd like to ask you about this decision on the edge, which I've been careful to hear in your answer to the first question today, because you thought it would be nice to go up to that 8,000 efficient frontier. And in that first intervention you said that that limit of 8,000 was necessary for relief needs or retirement needs, and, man, I would like to hear you say that it is necessary for security needs. And my question is why you consider that we need 8,000 tortoises, according to an estimate given at the Security Board in 2004, and if ever since then you do not think that the circumstances have really changed for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u164	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u165	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Arzuga, on the 22nd of March, with the Minister of Internal Problems in Madrid, with Mr. Zodo, yes. I announced at the meeting that I had to give a new political impulse to the Security Committee. And from the Minister, I had the will to do it, I had to work out a list of the subject, and commit to the meeting of the Security Committee before summer. But 25 and 26. It was just a demand to remove the promotional resource. It was not a decision of the Security Committee, it was a decision made by the Minister's Council. To pave the way for promotions 25 and 26 was, of course, not to amend a decision of the Security Board (which has not been held by that Security Board), but to correct a nonsense: the nonsense of applying a criterion of strict compliance with budget deficits to an unavoidable need for generational renewal to continue to offer a security service that Basque society demands and that belongs to Basque society. Requirements both in line with the decision taken by the Security Board, setting the number of officers required for Ertzaintza at 8,000. So, Mr. Azuga, there's no new decision from the Security Committee today. As for others, we've been engaged to do it before summer, because we're working on a list of subjects before the meeting's date is specified.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u166	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u167	Yes, thank you. So, as I understand it, they are going to a meeting of the Security Board with two points on the agenda: one, the increase of the State Security Forces and Bodies for this territory (because that is the overall framework they have given to this meeting), and, second, for the increase also to 8,000 of the Ertzaintza troops. Well, I have to say I don't share, I don't share that decision. I share with you that the judicial remedies submitted by the State are an unbearable assault on decisions taken in Basque institutions, but that does not mean that all decisions taken by Basque institutions are correct and reasonable. And I believe that maintaining 8,000 fortzainas, because that limit was accepted at a meeting of the Security Board in 2004, is not a decision that is neither reasonable nor correct. Because in these fourteen years things have happened, things have changed, security needs have changed. You tell us yourself: progress has been made, crime rates have improved, security perception has improved. And I understand that it would be up to us to reassess those new security needs to match them to the security resources we want to have. And I do not think this debate is taking place. To that end, I say to you that today I have registered a non-law proposal so that that 27 promotion of Ertzaintza that you are announcing to us will not be effective. We are doing this from an economic point of view, from the point of view of assessing security needs, of evaluating security resources, calling for a gradual reduction of the Ertzaintza as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u168	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u169	Thank you. I must then understand that you have already made an assessment and assessment of security needs. I don't know what the parameters are, but, well, you'll have a chance to explain it to us. I insist and repeat: no Security Board has been held. No Security Board has been held. The Security Board, regulated in accordance with the tasks assigned to it by the Statute of Gernika and made up of equal numbers by representatives of the State and the Autonomous Community, was born with three tasks that it still maintains today. It was the Security Board that agreed on the process of restoring historical rights through the creation of a new Basque police force, which eventually fused the pre-existing outside bodies. It was also responsible and it is up to it to order the process of transfer of competence, approving successive deployments and the staffing also financed under that unique mechanism that is established for the financing of Ertzaintza. It has been responsible for interpreting and clarifying the scope of the distribution of the competences assumed and those reserved for the State, where necessary. And it is in this area of bilaterality that we have demanded insistently throughout this process, in which the process of resources to promotions has been resolved. And that is the political momentum that we have been demanding, demanding with determination in the face of certain decisions of the Spanish Government. I urge that we continue to work towards the next Security Board that is expected to be held before the summer, so that police coordination among the various police officers is as effective as possible; that the resources allocated by each of the parties be adequate to the competencies we have allocated and the functions we have been developing; that all decisions taken also be in accordance with the principles of institutional loyalty and of a binding bilateral nature. This is the way, and this is the way we have walked those we have believed and believe that Ertzaintza is our police, the integral police of Euskadi.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-07.u170	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was two o'clock in the afternoon.
