ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Sit down, please, each of you in your chairs. Thank you. First point in theme list: "The proposal proposed by the Parlamentarian Groups of Euscals against the populars, the general Administration of the Esquiria Esquimia Escha, and Araba, Bizkai, and Gipu, as to the terms of cooperation signed by the veterans of Gupu: In the schools of Euska Autonomy in Erlaboria, to set a common economic and tax-central unit for the education program. The discussion of the proposal, and the final resolution. The turn to leave in the opposite proposal is for the Popular Party. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u1	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. We begin today's plenary session with the opposition that the People's Group has put forward to the signing of this agreement between the General Administration of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi and the outlaws. The purpose of the agreement that is intended to be approved by the House today is nothing other than to establish and develop a series of educational units in the ESO centres, in Secondary Education of all the schools in the three Basque outlying territories, in which our youngest is taught the economic and factual principles that govern this territory, that is, where public money comes from, how it is distributed among our administrations, and what that public money is spent on. All of this is part of a plan that was established a long time ago to combat tax fraud. Obviously, the People's Party does not oppose this; quite the contrary, it supports it and defends it, understanding that it is essential that it is precisely the youngest who, in order to avoid that fiscal distraction that they may have when they are adults and fulfil their tax obligations directly, have a clear knowledge of where the money comes from and what it is going to be spent on. From this part of the convention the People's Group has nothing to say, but – I repeat – insist, on the contrary, that there are more projects like this one from now on. Another part of the agreement is to share something that has already been developed by the Gipuzcoana foral hacienda some time ago, which has already invested money in taking it forward and which makes it available to the other foral territories: to safeguard equally, as the agreement contains, the peculiarities of each of the three territories in tax matters, so that they can be developed in each of their web portals, affecting these small differences that exist between the three foral territories. And one last part is the financing of the convention. This is where our group's discrepancy with the proposal that has brought us, which has put the Government on the table, arises. It is proposed that 50% of the expenditure involved in the development of this curriculum and its implementation not only for the course 17/18, but also with three possible extensions up to 2021, for a maximum of EUR 190,000 per year, be borne by half of the Basque Government and the other half of the three outlying territories, in accordance with the coefficients laid down by the rules governing the distribution of our income. And that is where our opposition does indeed arise. On what legal basis does the convention tell us? It is very simple: because it says that the three historical territories have the competence of finance and tax matters, and, on the other hand, because Article 16 of the Basque Statute of Autonomy tells us that the competence of education lies exclusively with the Basque Government. Considering that what is to be given is an economic and tax matter, it is up to the members of Parliament to pay half, and, as is done within the framework of compulsory education, the other half corresponds to Education of the Basque Government. That is where our discrepancy arises, precisely because we understand that the competence for education is exclusive to the Basque Government. That does not mean that everything relating to education has to be carried directly by the Basque Government, there will be other things in which it will have to collaborate, but not in the financing of agreements such as this. And less, as already happened at the time, when the system began to develop or to put into practice this idea, there for the year 2013-2014, having to outsource this type of projects. We understand that both the Basque Government and the outlaws have sufficient personal and technical means to implement the object of this agreement, and that, being a unique and exclusive competence of the Basque Government, it must be he who pays all the costs. I do not imagine if in the next fiscal year (budgetary I mean) 2018-2019 it is decided that a module will be implemented in the primary centers to explain the peculiarities of our climate and our mountains, and that, as that is a competence of the outlaws, therefore, that it will have to be financed in equal parts between the outlaws and the Basque Government. It would be completely meaningless. Teaching geography or teaching our administrative peculiarities, or in this tax case, is a matter for the Basque Government alone, and we therefore believe that funding should be 100 per cent of the Department of Education. I know that the amounts are very small, and I also know that this has been done in many other conventions and for a long time. That's true, but that doesn't mean it's well done. That old argument that "If it's always been done like this!", which is very typical of the Administration, therefore, it can lead us to misunderstandings, irregularities and to remain in time matters that have been led from the beginning by a mistake..., perpetuate it in time, and that error continue. We simply want to make it clear that, when they are the responsibility of an administration, it must be that administration that pays 100 per cent of the expenditure. In those cases where the competences are in some way shared, or diffuse, or may affect different competences of different administrations, it is then when clearly it is necessary to agree between the different administrations not only on how to implement or develop projects, but also on how to finance them. For that reason alone, because of the funding that is being given to this project, it is for this reason that we have raised the opposition and we ask the rest of the groups to support us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u2	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. On the other side, is anyone willing to join us? No. Then we'll go to the vote. (Response) Before you vote, Amaia Argrei's vote won't aim because he's in trouble on the machine. Then I'll add one more. That's for you to know. Well, eztabaida loved denez, bozkatuko duguna da aurkako proposedmena. I mean, the opposition proposal is what we're going to vote on. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u3	Excuse me? Neither do you...? We haven't started the vote yet, eh! I didn't give it to him! [[Barres]] But we know what we vote for first, don't we? Okay. Bozkatu dezakegu. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting were 66; 70; the supporters of the 7; the contrary, 63; white, 0; abscesssion, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u4	A vote description. Social party. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u5	Okay. For us, for socialists, fiscal education is not an insignificant reason, because it seems to us that it is not only a mathematical rule of tax application understood as a kind of burdensome duty that fulfills citizenship; it is much more. It is a way of understanding the welfare state, it is a way of understanding that taxes are not a citizen burden, they are a method of redistribution of wealth, of compensation of inequalities and of sustaining the welfare state. That is why we committed ourselves in its day, when we talked about the fiscal pact, when the socialists agreed with the Basque Nationalist Party and later joined the PP, it seemed to us that this issue was one of the important issues, although it is also related to the fight against tax fraud. In the same way, we proposed that this proposal for the creation of a teaching unit on tax education should be implemented jointly between the Departments of Education and Finance and in agreement with the three outlaws, who today have the tax jurisdiction to regulate taxes. That's where this agreement comes from. And that is why sincerely, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, we have not just understood your party's position against this agreement, because the agreement has been signed between the Basque Government and the three outlaws of Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa. And, put on the balance the importance of fiscal education, of the creation of a didactic unit that values what it has of solidarity with all, especially with those with less, fiscal policy, it puts more weight on the balance in the little more than 9,000 euros that it has to pay the Foral Diputación de Álava. I believe that, in terms of weight, political importance and in line with the initiative, it is clear that it is much more burdensome to create a didactic unit on tax education, that our young people know what taxes are for; that it is not only a way of reaching out to public administrations, it is a form of solidarity, of social justice and above all of redistribution of wealth. This created the Europe of well-being that we all know after the Second World War, and it is something I believe we should not give up. That is why we voted against your proposal, bearing in mind that in addition you in the Committee on Education, where this proposal for the creation of the tax unit was discussed, voted in favour of the establishment of that educational unit. That is why we have not just understood that, for a truly ridiculous amount such as 9,000 euros, the People's Party can oppose the formalization of this agreement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u6	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u7	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, Congressman, good morning to all of you. Last March 1, 2017 from Elkarrekin We can register a non-law proposal in relation to tax education where, on the one hand, we urged the Department of Education to be an effective promoter, agreeing with the educational community the appropriate content, in the education on the tax system and public services. On the other hand, we urged the Government to make a commitment to establish all the necessary resources for the 2017/2018 course to ensure firm and appropriate projects at all levels of education. This initiative was discussed in the Education Committee on 30 May, but curiously, two days earlier, on 28 May, the Basque Government, represented by Finance and Economics Councillor Pedro Azpiazu, and Education Councillor Cristina Uriarte, and the deputies of Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, presented a shared project to implement a civic-tributory education module in the centres of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi that join from the fourth ESO course. As stated at the press conference, the initiative is part of the joint plan to combat tax fraud, and part of the experience that has been developing over the last few years in Gipuzkoa schools in the territory. A year and a half ago the councilwoman, Cristina Uriarte, announced that the Basque primary and secondary students were going to work conscience and fiscal education. Since then, the Department of Education has not taken over the rudder as it should, and despite the fact that curricula have been collected, no real project has been made, no educational unit has been developed on the subject, and teachers in the field of taxation and public administration have not been trained in particular. However, we must say that, although the signing of this convention seems to us to be a good action, sincerely, to promote as values of society participation in the maintenance of public services and zero tolerance against tax fraud, we see an inconsistency in this. Why? First, because it is not coherent to train and inform Basque students about the importance of being aware of our tax obligations, and at the same time not to fight tax fraud by setting rules that avoid circumvention, cancel tax debts or cover the opacity of information about large fraudsters. And secondly, because it is not coherent to train and inform Basque students about the importance of being aware of our tax obligations, and at the same time not accepting the recommendations of the experts in the fight against fraud, and not to set an example, for example, by allowing the existence of fraud in submerged economies of more than 3.7 billion euros, or by not allowing in this very House the creation of an independent observatory against tax fraud. We are not opposed to this type of training being given to students, much less, and we see it very necessary and urgent to help educate an ethical generation, but we are concerned that these initiatives are being used to make mere propaganda. On the other hand, we would have found it interesting to formally assess the training and projects carried out so far in this area, and thus help to improve them. We also see well and we find it positive to work together among the different administrations of the Basque Autonomous Community, but we would have liked the Department of Education to have led the educational content, in order for the student to assume his duties as citizens in the maintenance and improvement of the common goods and of our welfare system, appreciating individual and collective participation in the financing of public services, solidarity and redistribution as elements of social cohesion through fiscal obligations, for the construction of a vital project committed to fair and sustainable social development. On the other hand, regarding the content of the teaching unit, we detect a lack of content in relation to fiscal progressiveness. We observe that the different options on taxation are presented to the students decontextualized, and without presenting the theoretical framework that supports each of them. Finally, and not least, we would have liked the Basque Government to have made a commitment to ensure that in the design of the contents of such training it would have been possible to collaborate with networks of alternative and solidarity economy and ethical banking, in order to provide students with training in tax and fiscal matters that would cover all possible alternatives. In short, it seems to us that we must invest in this type of training, and we see no problem in the fact that it is a project financed by all the institutions of the Basque Autonomous Community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u8	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u9	Good morning, everyone. The arguments PP has used to march against the agreement we do not share, and therefore we have given our refusal. But we won't hide that we have our concerns. We have several reasons, which cause us uneasiness in the presence of this agreement, and I shall mention some. One. Same title. Instead of being a public system and a tactical unit on taxes, it's about economics and taxes. According to the line of economy, it seems to us that it may become disturbing if the principles and contents which will be shown are directed to extend the philosophy of cheap work, by passing the integral education into a second plane. What gives us another uneasiness: it is foreseen that the contract of services should be made to produce a diactical unit, and esternalisation is foreseen. When the teachers are trained and teachers in the education system can be trained, because the application of those metrical units which tend to what kind of business is to be found, it may become a source of uneasiness, if we see what has happened before, if we leave it to the bank to the exercise of those dithytic units. And here we have examples. And that's where the contents can be distorted. It also disturbs us that aliens have a choice to fit the contents, and, of course, there may be another distortion: The solidarity of generations may be withdrawn from which the struggle is directed against fraud, the importance of securing public services, etc. And on the other hand, it is also a matter of concern to us that the political policy of the aldunities of the present day are a little removed from the value of what has been expressed in the exposition of this ditactical unit. But, well, we're going to give a bottle of trust and then we're going to follow closely, with what content, what purpose, how do we get this doactic unit? For we have not had a chance to contribute to this Covenant, and to heal this Covenant, to repair the defectes. We will give a vow of trust, Mr. Subauzu, because you yourself introduced this fatal unit with the same words as Helen Franco, because you introduced it with the same words to strengthen the collective conscience of the citizens, and, in theory at least, this compact and ditactical unit, is derived from the same philosophy. If so, I wish to congratulate you, and welcome you, as soon as I have received a visit from you, thanks for sharing the work that is so essential to us, although you are still in the opposite direction of the state of politics, but we have no doubt that you will soon come in our direction, but please do it as quickly as possible for the public system and for the people before it is too late. It is true that we have a very nice choice for a thought, for a culture, for correlative culture, for collective personality, culture of transparency, social justice, social cohesion, solidarity. Let us see, that every one of us is useful to every one and every one; that a particular political policy is necessary for all of us to be public transports, to have schools of quality, to be the centres of health, to be domestics, i.e. the public system is necessary to guarantee the rights of all of us, and we all must have a protective system. But that's the basis of politics. And finally, a reflection and a proposition. Think about it. The school can't solve all the problems of society. The school can't bear the weight of all the problems of society. I leave it there to reflect. And the proposition. I'm predicting that we're going to make a suggestion, of course, round and complete, this state of consciousness, in order to extend this diactical unit to college as well. Yes, because it seems important to us that the culture of the collective, the culture of social justice, the culture of the solidarity of generations, the education of the people and the people of the importance of the public system. And one more thing important: Big words are often used in the political policy when the rental office... Let us also begin with other terms, which all men understand, and use, and all the people truly know what politics are, and which is the foundation of understanding. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Madame Gorospe, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, officers. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Ruiz de Abulo, you have, more or less, mentioned the contents of your position. You said you don't have any objections about that. You make one. And it pleases us, because we believe that in the content of this compact there is an extensive political agreement, and that the agreement of all the institutions of euchara is agreed on, and that we ought to be kept from the same line by the interest of other parties. The origin, as far as the contents are concerned, is here four years ago, a discussion we had in 2013, a monographic, a district of taxes, and there it was said that a Basque committee should be born of the legislature to fight against the prosecutor. So far as this is concerned, there has been in it a plan connected with deception for the last few years, and in this union there are three separate lines of operation: one for information, the other for regularizing and collecting, and the other for preventive operations. And he enters into it and has now entered this particular initiative to feed on it. I mean, the origin of this is not derived from the Board of Education, the origin of which arises from the scope of this combat against fraud, and hence arises the proposition. And it is the initiative imposed upon by the institutions which are entirely within reach. That's why the funding belongs to them because it's their jurisdiction. And there's a business experience that has been found to join the Board of Education. How it has been done, you have mentioned it, the contract of cooperation itself, mentions that every soldier of the forum will be able to accommodate himself to his own country. But it's important to say that there's a unit, and it's mentioned in the treaty that it's the origin of aactic unit that started at its moment in the Forum Aldundia of Gipu. Then we'll have to work on it; we'll have to improve it, and we'll have to penetrate into what's better, what's wrong with him. But in the word of cooperation we can see what is the end, and in the second place, it is said in the cloisters: "The purpose of this agreement is also to regulate the rights of economy andzergical treatment of the economy and the ditactical unit collected on the platform ofus." I mean, it's not like I said there's no tactical unit. There is, we all have it, and we know what the contents are. As for the form, I think we ought to mention it and that it is a value for that committee against fraud. It has three very important keys to the way this group works: to cooperate, to collaborate and to coordinate. Coordination is the responsibility of the Tax Coordination Authority (which is where the name comes from), which reports to the Finance Department of the Basque Government. The three outlaws cooperate, because each in the sphere of competence of its territory develops different lines of action in this field of the fight against tax fraud. But they also collaborate together, so that each of them brings their positive experiences, that when they have the support, or the okey, the approval of the other competent administrations, are also included to be able to extend and implement the proposals throughout the territory. All in the field of combating tax fraud. Each one works, and works hard, cooperates, collaborates, making joint programs, and, among other things, this is a program that will be done jointly, in addition to including a new agent in collaboration, which is the Department of Education of the Basque Government. Therefore, in terms of logic and methodology of operation it is a model to follow. In addition to this, I would say that this is done in other parts, and that the Popular Party has in some way an incoherence in this sense, because you have not maintained the same position in the principal assemblies of the three countries. You have not voted against the principal councils of the three countries, and on the other hand, in Spain, Madrid, the Cerga Agency has this dactical unit on its front page. And that's how it is everywhere. The departments in the country where there's a battle against tax camps and frauds work, Spain, Denmark, Italy, the United Kingdom, Canada, and the United States, Argentina, Chile... Well, all this information is available to you and everywhere. And here Euskadin, you've mentioned other matters, and it's done. For instance, there are diactical units in the circle of life, or in the sphere of equality, which every department produces, and which they themselves finance. What's going on? In this case, the charger of the rights must be admitted by the three forgeries. In any case, let all the citizens, and especially the new generations, be sensibized, and know how important it is to fulfil our duties to pay taxes, to pay public services and politics among us, to unite in the process of redistribution...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u12	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u13	... is that question so normal and frequent today, of "With VAT, or without VAT?", you don't like the kulturan gure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. The second point in the subject list. To discuss these undertakings at once, and to take up the resolution once and for all: "Moía del Carmen lópez de Ocariz, lópez de Muninka, a member of the American laws of the Populata, which are not allowed to place in it because of the facilities of communications which have been established on the mountains of the American Administration of Arabeta, between the Canal SA and the Administration." "To obtain a treaty between the Itels, and the Institutions, as has been made by the parlament of the Parliament of the Union." It's the headline of the proposed team. Madam Lopez de Ocarariz, representing the Populian Party, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. We present at this time the motion resulting from the inquiry that we presented fifteen days ago in this House, concerning the situation of disagreement or non-agreement between the administrative boards that have installed in their public mounts telecommunications centres and the company of the Basque Government, company Itelazpi (one hundred per cent public, dependent on the Basque Government), which is the manager of these centres. The conflict or disagreement is founded because the boards, in their full rights and competences, want to regularize this situation, and what is customary for the boards to do with all the services and services that are located in their public mountains (and we can talk about the use of wood, we can talk about pastures, we can talk about mushrooms, we can talk about hives)... All of this has a canon, each board establishes the canons, which is supervised and advised by a deputy, and the question the boards ask is: "Why not these centers that are located...?". And from there, well, there's a story of a few years of relationship and..., we're not going to talk about talking, we're going to talk about changing documents between juntas, deputies and the Basque Government and Itelazpi, where no agreement has been reached and a conflict has been reached, which in some cases has come to resources and has been brought to justice. And we understand that the relationship has to be different. You were able to see the question here the week before. There have been appearances in committee, both from the director of Itelazpi and from the president of the administrative board of Ariñez, who was the one who fought the most to bring this situation back. Indeed, as I said to you, it has always been difficult to convey outside of Álava what the administrative boards are, what their rights are, what their powers are, what their roots are. And it's just that it's very important that the administrative boards in Alava are rooted, and it hasn't been easy. Not only in this case, but also in others, when developing sectoral plans, when talking about services, when talking about skills. The water... For URA sometimes does not understand that the administrative boards are the competent administrations in this. Therefore, having arrived at this situation and having seen the various reports that the Foral Diputación de Álava has also issued on this matter, where it said that Itelazpi must have the relevant authorization to occupy the lands where the telecommunications infrastructures are located... In addition, these reports said something else: that it must pay a fee for such use, according to the Norma Foral de Montes, a norm that was approved in 2007. But we also have a telecommunications law of 2003, where it says that telecommunications is not a public service, except for national defence and civil protection. The Government has been somewhat rebellious about how to resolve this occupation. And it is curious that the companies linked to the Basque Government and the departments that have services or to which Itelazpi serves them, therefore, pay a canon to Itelazpi for those services provided, while Itelazpi pays a canon to the Basque Government, because it has those towers, which are owned by the Basque Government, which were transferred to it in its day. But it's the facility, the infrastructure. Not the ground (as they have rented...). He pays a canon, too. But it does not pay a fee for the ground, which is where this activity takes place, as I told you, public land, which for other services is paid a fee. As I was telling you, there are many services that can be developed on a public mountain, and everyone has a fee or canon. Therefore, our interest – and I think it has already become clear throughout the various interventions that we have had in this House – is to reach an agreement and agreement with the administrative boards where these telecommunications centres are located, in order to achieve a good normal relationship between administrations, respecting the competences of each one. I must say that there has been a non-legislative motion, a motion has been tabled, amendments have been made, and we have reached an agreement. An agreement of all groups, which seems important to me, because we have moved from that rebellion of the Government shown all this time, to being in a position to sit down at a table and negotiate. Do not go directly to resort to such a rule or the other: sit down and talk. And I think we've moved, as I was saying, from that "I don't want to know anything" or "I'm staying in my thirteen," to "let's talk, let's see how we solve this issue." And that seems very important to us. I understand that the administrative boards would probably like more, they would like to see almost a preconception coming out of here today, all marked, because they have been behind this for a long time and they want a firm result, that your request is understood. But, well, I think we have made progress, and all the progress on this issue is, from our point of view, positive. We have reached an important compromise amendment, in which we urge the Basque Government to carry out all the necessary actions in order to reach an agreement between the local Alavesa authorities, the Foral de Álava legislature and the public company Italazpi, which, respecting the regulatory powers assigned to each entity, will allow the use of the occupied spaces to be regulated, the amounts of ownership of the local entities (councils), and establish the requirements and conditions for such use, including an economic counter-performance. This agreement shall detail the rights and obligations that each party must assume for the proper development of the service. We also say that the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to indicate to the public society Itelazpi that it is necessary for the affected local entities (the councils) to know who the users of the spaces are, and to put in place effective mechanisms to allow access to information, which is part of the principles of transparency and publicity that must inspire the actions of public societies. This wasn't happening. It seems a lie, but a public enterprise that is occupying a space that does not belong to it and that is of another administration has no relation to those councils. The council doesn't know what's located in that space. He does not know if there is going to be an intervention, a play or an adaptation. There are other companies that occupy spaces of public mountains that every time they have a performance (say they have to make a reform on the platform, or they have to do any performance) communicate it. It communicates, it's logical. Well, this wasn't the case here. If one more tower is needed to house other spaces, it has never been communicated, either to the administrative board or to the city council. Because also the municipalities have here some functions, which are the activity licenses, which is basic. So, I think it's important, and it's hard for me to have to remember it here and put it on paper, but it just wasn't happening. Therefore, it seems to us that this step will also mark a before and after in the relations between Itelazpi, the administrative boards, the municipalities and the parliament, and also the government. In point 3 of the compromise amendment, we say that the Basque Parliament urges the institutions involved and the public company Itelazpi to try to avoid judicializing the agreement reached once it occurs, making a clear bet to resolve the disagreements in the interpretation of it or in the disagreements that may arise through the use of alternative solutions, such as mediation and arbitration. And fourthly, the Basque Parliament urges the institutions involved and the public company Itelazpi to examine the legal possibility that the payment of the economic compensation agreed will be retroactive and will also agree on the period of retroactive time to be applied. I do not want to detail any more matters, because I believe that, as I said to you, the various initiatives that have taken place in this Parliament around Itelazpi have included what is the history of this situation, what we have each contributed in these various debates, and what we now have is to put the agreement into practice. I would really like to thank Mrs Larrauri and Mr Prieto, as members of the groups supporting the Government, for the support and work they have done to reach this agreement, which we believe is important. Likewise, to EH Bildu and Podemos, because we have each left our things in the catera, but we have encouraged this agreement to go forward among all. So what is left to us now is for this agreement to be implemented and for it to come to a successful conclusion, and for all parties to contribute to the continuation of this situation. I don't doubt it. We will, in any case, be vigilant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. The Representative of the EH Collect Group has the word to present and defend its own initiative. Madam, your word is yours. Sí, señora López de Ocariz?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u17	Now, thank you. Madam President, since the motion and the non-legislative proposal are accumulated, and we have reached an agreement, the motion should first be voted on, and then the agreement we have reached. Therefore, I withdraw the motion, and we vote only on the compromise amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u18	Bale. Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. A high field, ma'am, whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u19	Thank you, Mrs. President, and good morning to all. I would like to begin with the value of all the local entities, all conjugations, and all who have been at work. What I want to say is that we're here today talking about this subject and we're able to say that we've had a chance to make an agreement on this subject. And that's why I want to start sending all the people our warmest happiness. And I have another reason to say too. First, whoever has spoken to me here has mentioned that it is very difficult to know and to consider how things are in Araban, and it is true. For me, for a sinner, it was a very salt thing to know what conjugations are, what assemblies are, what jurisdictions they have, how to work.... And when I've taken this subject, I've had a chance to see it, to know it, and, in fact, what I can say at the moment is that I understand very well what we're talking about, and I want to thank everyone who's been working with me. Then there's something else to consider. that we have had occasion in this parliament to make a vast inquiry on this subject. And when I say that we have had the opportunity to make a wide inquiry, I mean that we have had occasion to listen to appearances about this subject, and that we have heard what every one thinks, and have heard the explanation of every one of them. And I'll quote the results, different commissions, the results of what I hear in different occurrences. And the first thing, to me, has been very significant, what perception there has been about what has happened. And I want to highlight the feeling of loneliness, the feeling of little institutional collaboration, the feeling of helplessness that transmitted to us in the appearance of the other day the person who came to speak on behalf of Ariñez. He told us that no one had listened to him, that it had been a kind of obstacle race to get this issue at the heart of the debate, and that today he was still asking for explanations, when in reality all he had done was to defend the rights of his neighbors and neighbors, the rights that his neighbors and neighbors had. Eta nik you had to have you behar dugula, bear gauza garrantzitsua izan dellako. On the other hand, we have heard information and explanations given by the Itel-sub-Community. And I would mention one thing: I don't think he said the whole truth in that treatment. He did not explain what really happened, for he had given three principal reasons to keep things in the same position. And before this three reasons there are some proofs, which are entirely objective, that what is explained is not true. And I'll tell you who they were. First of all, what he said was that they paid nothing, and that if they had been paid it was a mistake, it was because it was corrected. Well, that's not true. I have here the bill and pay for the "Etura conjuice," which is a bill they've made, and here in 2017, they paid three thousand and a half euros. But they also paid for it in exchange, and paid for it in Araia, and in other places. Then it wasn't a mistake. He was obliged to pay for it. The other reason was that there was no change in the places where they used to be, things remained the same. And I pulled this out at his moment, but I want him back here. This is the way it was and this is the way it is now. A terrible change. One has nothing to do with the other, something has changed. Then it's not all true either. The other reason was that they didn't collect any money, and what we've seen is that when an investigation has been reported, they're collecting a lot of money at the Division of Abaka. And with the answer to the question, he told us that there was a lot of income and that it wasn't all true then. On the other hand, in this examination, we've had a chance to examine the report made by The Directors of Investigation. And what he said was that they had no license, that they had no title to occupy mountains, and we all know what sorts of things the institutions do when there is no title and when you have no right to occupy them. Here at Gaste, we have a clear example of rekalein, we have a few examples of Bilbon, when things have been desolated... I mean, we have an example. When there's no title, and when there's a title, rights and things are courted and that's where you pay money. But that's not all he said about Dietium, the Gasteize City said the same thing. And what the big council report said, too, was that they had to pay something because they had competition and they had rights. Hori esanda éta hori ikusita, éta gauza guzti horiek kontuan izanda, Euskal Herria Bilduren jarra izan zen akordioren bila joatea. Eta agerraldia egin zenean hori aipatu genuine, esan genuine: "Euskal Herria Bildu's position is that this can only be solved by an agreement, and we make ourselves available to all parties to achieve that agreement." And the truth is that this has been the work that Euskal Herria Bildu has done: he has spoken to the local authorities, he has spoken to the councils, he has spoken to the different parties in this House, and he has tried to find an agreement that will solve the problem that existed, because we understood that it was possible. And, of course, in that agreement it was also necessary for the Basque Government to have some kind of implication, because Itelazpi is a public society, which is fully involved in public money and public interests. And in the end, then, of course, they are behar duguna da akordio hori lortu dugula. Eta akordio hori lortzeko nik aipamen xiki bat egin nahi dut, age of Larrauri anderaren jarra. Egya gives beer the hyzan jar from the akordioren aldekoa hasieratik. But he had some red dots that made it hard for him to make the deal. Well, well, there was a discussion about how to make that counter-performance, but, well, in the end we managed to get that over with, because we thought it was good, because there was a predisposition on the part of Mrs Larrauri, but also, Mrs Larrauri, you will agree with me that because you stay out of the blanket of the parliamentary agreement, on a subject like this, then, what I was doing is leaving it to you very cold, despite the heat it was doing out. And then... Why? Because even the mayors of the Basque Nationalist Party who are and know all this were not going to understand a position like that. I don't care what the reason is; what matters to me is that we have achieved this agreement and that we have managed to bring the aspirations that we all had to an agreement that I think perfectly reflects the purpose that we had from the beginning. It is true that from the beginning we have had the cooperation of Podemos and the People's Party. And, Mrs López de Ocariz, I thank you for your cooperation, I thank you for your predisposition, I thank you for everything. I still don't understand that you don't sign. We're in June, you know they put notes in June, and they put "progress properly" and then they put "you have to improve." Well, as you progress properly, it takes a little bit to improve. Let's see if we can get better in October. In any case, also very grateful. Not us, but the councils and the entities, because we have reached this agreement. And in the end, I've got one thing clear that we'll be listening. We plan on this arrangement, because we don't plan to vote for the agreement because it's very nice. We want you to take everything you say forward and fill it up. And we'll follow it, and we'll do everything that's in our power to get this thing out. Eta hori exaten dugu, let no one think it's a threat. It is simply a warning; let everyone be aware that we are going to remain vigilant for the fulfillment of this, because we believe it is good for all parties and because we believe it is time for this issue to be closed with a satisfactory agreement for everyone. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u20	Thank you, signor. Passing round the groups they've been running the correction: Together, Poedemus. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u21	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. There's a subject coming up today, I won't be long, because most of it's already said and it's told. Besides, as has been said, we have often treated this subject, as has been said, in all the occurrences which have been happening, even the President of the Itelbet, or even the President of the Companion Committee of Ariñez, who has been affected in this case by Ariñez, or had done a great deal of work in this combat about the occupation of their mountains. First of all, we also have been glad of our agreement. Just because the time came because we needed to be a part of the EukokM, or the parties that are doing this, you know? Finally, the Itelseven companies, it's a public company at 100 percent, and it's necessary to end up with a very special situation. But I think it is necessary to explain what points are, and why or what causes are to come to this agreement of ours to-day. The first point of the agreement concerns the materialization of an agreement between the local Alavesa authorities, the parliament and Itelazpi SA, to establish requirements for the use of the spaces occupied by the antennas, by the towers, among which, at this point that we have approved, is the economic counter-performance, which is where one of the major parts of the issue is, the core. Because, after all, it is important to note that the claimants, who are councils or administrative boards, are local entities for which to obtain a benefit or not, because of the use of their mount, makes a big difference. The third point also calls for avoiding, trying to avoid the judicialization of the agreements established. We would like it to be said directly that these agreements will not be brought to justice, as has already happened, since there are precedents and this has already happened, such as the appeal lodged by Itelazpi and the one brought by the Basque Government against the Foral Order 471/2014 of 31 October, which sought to regularize the occupation of the repeater located in Zaldiaran, a foral order that was annulled by the expiry of the procedure. The administrative board of Ariñez, which is the one affected in the case we talk about, has again requested in February 2017 the regularization of the occupation by the private use of the public utility mount. The Montes Service of the Municipality of Álava and the legal consultancy have already begun to work again, or they began to work on the drafting of a new foral order in content and form to regularize the occupation of the repeater, considering a private use – and this is clear – of a part of a mountain catalogued by an entity other than the holder of that mountain and therefore subject to administrative concession, setting the conditions for the authorization of this occupation. In the case of Kontrasta, also another administrative board affected, another council affected by this, was also made the Foral Order, 161/2016, which fixed an occupation fee, and had the same result as the previous foral order. They are the beginning of many other municipalities or administrative boards that have the same problem. If it is already surprising that no fees are paid, it is more so that most of these telecommunications centres do not have the corresponding authorization of the foral parliament, which is the competent institution to regulate the actions on the mountains. In Araba, of the thirty-three repeaters, only one has this permit, which is specifically that of Asparrena, by the issuing center of Araia, being the only one for which the corresponding fee of 4,109,52 euros per year is paid. The remaining thirty-two, distributed throughout the Alavesa geography, do not have the corresponding administrative authorization of the outlaws. If I am not mistaken, in Euskadi there are sixty-three towers, of which only sixteen have the corresponding legal conditions. The number of unlicensed telecommunications centres reaches 45. Itelazpi does charge companies for the use of these infrastructures. According to his own memory, last year's turnover rose to EUR 12.6 million. And here there is also a disparity of opinions, especially if we take into account that of the director of Itelazpi, who when he appeared here raised a perception about what is a public company that we certainly do not share. We do not share, of course, the fact that being a public enterprise allows us to use public land without any conditions, but we do not share the fact that the service that these towers are giving is public, because it is not. The director of Itelazpi argued that the law obliges telecommunications companies to cover a minimum of coverage, and proposed – or I understood it – that this fact, and the necessary good that these telecommunications networks entail, convert these services into public services. We obviously do not share that, because they are obviously services that offer private companies that pay for the use of the towers and generate revenue to Itelazpi for this use, and that then profit economically from the business they have, to which this telecommunications network is part. For Itelazpi, the Law on Public Administration Heritage provides for the continuation of the activity free of charge, because there is no economic utility for the concessionaire, obviating, as I have already said, that the telecommunications service is not a public service since 2003, and obviating also the expertise of the engineers of the UPV, who after two years, seven months and thirteen days of waiting were able to access the issuing centre, carrying out an inspection that evaluated the annual revenues of the station of Zaldiaran in 1,343,000. As I have said before, Itelazpi omits in its manifestations, or in what has been raised in the appearances here, that since Law 32/2003 telecommunications do not have the character of a public service, except for defence and civil protection. Moreover, as has also been said, the Norma Foral de Montes, the 11/2007 of the Diputación Foral de Álava, does not in any case contemplate the gratuitous occupation of a listed mountain, not even for concessions of general interest declared by the State or of interest for the historical territory or of public utility. It is also paradoxical not to pay the administrative boards, while Itelazpi pays an annual fee to the Basque Government, and that companies linked to the Executive pay Itelazpi for the services provided by it. That a public company like Itelazpi, with the business figures it carries out, resorts to the land occupation fee, which amounted to about 21,000 euros for the administrative board of Ariñez, demanding the return of the collected and the costs of the trial (that is, about 30,000 euros), the truth is that it involves an exercise of intellectual pride, an abuse of power that [[...]] between administrations. It was necessary to recognise by the Basque Government the economic fee or compensation to be paid for the use of these mountains, and we are therefore pleased that this concept is present in point 1, including the retroactivity of these payments if legally possible. It must be compensated for the holders of the mountains, and we must study the different options and regularize all with rigour and responsibility, because obviously the trials are bad for all. Valuation criteria must be defined in order to prevent courts from understanding that they are unjustified criteria. An agreement on this has already been reached at the Arab General Councils, and we are also pleased that an agreement has been reached here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u22	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u23	President, ladies and gentlemen. As has already been said and as you know, Itelazpi is a 100 per cent public company, is a company whose budgets are part of the budgets of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, and is therefore a company which has a public interest, an essential interest, and which also provides some other services. Itelazpi is not a company that is operating on its own and at risk and outside any protocol or agreement between institutions, although, in fact, this institutional relationship table is not complete. But it should be remembered that in 2008 an agreement was already made between the Basque Government and the foreign parliaments to try to ensure that a network that was beginning to generate symptoms of tiredness, in terms of the communication system, was renewed by a more modern network, which is what Itelazpi is currently dedicated to. Indeed, Itelazpi, in addition to ensuring that communications reach all places (i.e. all citizens of the Basque Country), does services that are not only essential, that are not only public, but are also private. And it is true that, for example, private televisions have a coverage capacity at all corners of the country not because they have invested in it, since the law obliges them to minimum coverage but does not oblige them to the maximum coverage, to the point that today there are 200,000 citizens in Basquedi who, if they did not have this coverage through Itelazpi, would not be able to access certain private communication systems, as is the case with many of the televisions. So let's put things a little bit on their fair terms. It is a communication network that is needed, it is a public communication network, it is a communication network that does not have to go to expensive, excessive investments, because, in any case, if it did, they would have to come out of public resources. And, therefore, if there is wealth, if there is property, if there is soil, if there is room to develop such enterprises, this must be done, although it must indeed be done in collaboration with the institutions concerned. And certainly in Álava, which houses fifty-eight centers of this network, of the 215 that are in Euskadi, in Álava there is an agreement, as I mentioned earlier, where the Foral Diputación de Álava participates with the Government, for the development of this network, but to which, and according to the convention itself, other local institutions should have acceded or sought formulas of collaboration and participation, and this certainly has not been done. We are, therefore, faced with a conflict between administrations that we must see with affection, interest and prudence with which to see when the problems are like this. We are not facing a situation in which someone is getting a favor deal to make a big deal and have a big profit and benefit from it, but quite the contrary, because everything that can also be a benefit is part of the public resources of this community. Another thing is whether there has to be a single manager of those public resources or there may be more managers through an agreed formula. I believe that that is what has finally brought us to this agreement, to address this issue in this House and also to agree on it. I think the deal has great value. Firstly, because it has agreed with the five parliamentary groups in this House, but secondly because the agreement is reinforced by the participation of the Government also in that agreement. That is to say, he too wanted to put his part in order for this agreement to be reached. This implies that, as head of the company Itelazpi, it is already giving instructions to the company itself to establish a work plan, operating, that allows this to be resolved in the coming weeks, in the coming months. I think it is right to suggest that we have to agree, that we have to agree, because indeed the local entities that operate in Álava, which are those administrative boards and which own a certain heritage – among others, the mountains, the public soil that exists in their terms – it is true that they also provide services to their citizens, and therefore they also need to obtain income. And that's why you have to share those potential income to the extent that there can be benefits, you have to share it with those institutions, making it convenient. We are therefore first of all in the face of a determined will on the part of all the groups and also of the Government to have this dialogue, to have this meeting space between the parties, and we agree that there must also be transparency on everything that is being done about Itelazpi and on all the rights and functions that this company has in relation to its location and all the other aspects of business, and this is also contained in the compromise amendment that we have agreed on. The transactional amendment states that there must be an economic counter-performance, which also draws a little bit of a path towards reaching an agreement. It is not just a matter of exchanging impressions and having a lot of knowledge about what is going on, but it is also a matter of being able to resolve with counter-performance. This is reflected in the agreement that we have made among all, and I therefore believe that the substantive, the important, the fundamental part of this debate that brings us here today, is that this is already under way, this has already narrowed down the terms on which we must try to resolve this matter. And I believe that this is something that should lead us to congratulate each other, because it is a problem that has brought many people to our heads for many years, who, as we have seen in appearances that have taken place in this Parliament, have been the ones who have been torn apart in an attempt to speak, to negotiate, to agree, and to this day has been impossible. Well, these representatives of these administrative boards, of these local entities, who have their role and who also have to have their consideration and respect in the way they work in the whole of public activity, through what we have developed and will approve here today, already have a way of solution and a way of calming and horizon in order for all this to be resolved. For this reason, I think it is up to us to congratulate ourselves and enjoy this part of the agreement, thinking, trusting, hoping that the end will come soon as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u24	Thank you, Mr Price. Madame Laruri, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. At last, as I have said, we have come to an agreement. It wasn't easy, but we're glad. And we say it hasn't been easy at all because there have been very rigid, very inverted positions. At all times and so far, specific interests of administrative boards have prevailed, specific economic interests of administrative boards have prevailed, in the face of the general interest that the Government must defend. The Government, as the Sailburu said three weeks ago in response to an inquiry..., its responsibility cannot be other than to ensure that those interests and services to all citizens throughout the country are guaranteed, and can never be endangered by the specific aspirations of local entities, specific public administrations. There has been talk of the feeling of abuse, an abuse of a larger administration over smaller administrations. That abuse has never occurred. Each administration has legitimately defended the interests it defends, with knowledge and institutional respect, always being mutual loyalty. Nor has there been any lack of awareness of the unique institutional framework that Araba has, and our party does not ignore, cannot ignore or ignore this unique institutional framework. Thus, having so far prevailed partial interests over general interests, it could not be accepted; however, positions have been made more flexible. It was understood that the fundamental claim of the administrative boards was an economic issue. Just as the important thing was not..., in the end we knew that the important thing, the substantial thing, was not the formula, as we could know from the president of the administrative board, because of the appearance that we had on Monday in committee; however, equally because of bad advice, because of biased advice, they had been encrusted in concrete formulas. In any case, we also value the agreement, because we understand that it balances the interests of all the public administrations at stake. Eta horregatik, esan bezala, erdibideko zuzenketa babestuko dugu. We have to defend that the actions of the Basque Government have been and are in accordance with the law. The legitimacy of the occupation of the mountains of public utility has been maintained, legitimacy maintained, this legitimacy of occupation exists. How, Mrs Goirizelaia, is not going to exist, is not the government going to have legitimacy in those towers that are from the year 66 and that until the year 85 belonged to the Arab Foreign Ministry? How can one question the legitimacy of this occupation? How can we question whether the Government has legitimacy in the exercise of its powers, in the exercise of those powers through public goods? That's unquestionable. On the other hand, the Basque Government has argued against the fact that this activity is taxed with a fee or a fee, and that is maintained. It has always been maintained that that was not the formula, that that could not be the formula. However, as has been said, we have managed to make it..., that in the end the aspiration was an economic aspiration and not so much focused on the formula, with which the subject of economic compensation has been accepted. As the Sailburu said here too, in the Government's performance the approach has always been a comprehensive and comprehensive approach, and it has also been maintained over time. It has been maintained in time by all political groups that have gone through the responsibilities of government, both by Itelazpi's leadership and by the vice-advisory branch, in their case, in the period 2009-2012, with which, repeating his words, Itelazpi's performance has been neither novel nor capricious. For the Basque Government it is not cold outside; the Basque Government has always maintained the will for dialogue and agreement. That's not something new. The only thing, that the parties were stuck in their positions and there was no possibility of agreement, but, of course, dialogue has always existed. Our group has participated in the drafting of this final agreement, and we are satisfied. As we have said, the formula was one of the limits. The formula could not be, first of all, that this House, or any other chamber, could give the parties a closed agreement. There had to be room for negotiation. And, on the other hand, the formula could not in any case be the concession, because the concession is a legal concept not applicable when it comes to goods of public domain. It also has an implicit deadline that how the Euskadi communications network is going to be submitted to a deadline!, how the livelihood of the Euskadi communications network is going to be endangered! Therefore, the concession could not be the formula, that has been understood, with which there has been the possibility of moving forward and reaching an agreement. We have to value the public functions that Itelazpi develops, because it seems that, as the rest of the groups are heard, it seems that, I don't know... In the end Itelazpi performs clear public functions; in those towers that Mrs Goirizelaia has taught, emergency functions are performed..., gives emergency functions, security, civil protection, meteorology, among other functions, which in no case could fall into private hands. On the other hand, the population is provided with services related to the fundamental right to information, such as television and the Internet. It has never been denied that everything fits strictly into the concept of public service. That's never been said. Moreover, the legal concept of public service is increasingly narrowing, and that is not said. Moreover, citizens are not interested in whether it is a strict public service. What interests citizens is that all services reach all homes, everywhere and at all times. And with that function, with that function of social benefit, it is with italazpi that it acts. On the other hand, it has not been hidden at any time from the fact that private operators (i.e. by legal obligation of Article 9.4 of the General Telecommunications Act) are housed, and these operators pay market prices to Itelazpi, as endorsed by the 2013 report of the Telecommunications Market Commission, which is in this House. With this, please do not question: it is charged, but in accordance with the law. And besides, it doesn't mean that having that income is all benefit. Many of the centers, particularly in Araba, are deficient, and if Itelazpi, a public society, a public network did not take care of this, those services would not reach the entire citizenry. On the other hand, also with these shelters of private operators you get a less environmental impact, avoiding the proliferation of towers on our territory. And, as we know yesterday, according to a document from the Department of the Environment, three out of four Basques are interested in them, they are particularly concerned about environmental protection. With which we also have to value this. We therefore welcome the agreement because positions have been made more flexible, but we must be clear that the existence of the public telecommunications network in Euskadi must always be guaranteed. On the other hand, in conclusion, I would especially like to thank the flexibility shown by the government department and public society Itelazpi in order to reach a meeting point. I also thank the rest of the groups for their efforts to reach this point. And just like that, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. Are you planning to be shared on the answering shift? No. So, we're going to the vote. And what we're going to vote will be EH Collect, Euskal Socialists, and together with Pousdemos and Eukobertarians the middle-class correction that has been signed by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, the votes given, 74; the supporters, 74; the opponents are 0; white, 0; abstations 0; 0,0,0,0; abstations.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u27	So it's unanimously accepted, plus one more vote. At the next point, five minutes, I've been asked for ten minutes, one thing you're just finishing up. I was going to spend it on the next point, but you seem to prefer ten minutes, okay? Well, well, the time you need, I don't know, ten minutes? Okay, so calculate about ten minutes. It was ten-thirty in the morning. The meeting began again at eleven o'clock in the morning.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u28	Third point in theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos, as a parlamentary group, concerning dismission, persecution, and violence, concerning LGTBIQphobic. Discipline and final resolution. Ms. Arana, it's yours to introduce and get out of here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u29	Good noon, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Partners. We begin this intervention by recalling that next June 28th is commemorated the International Day of the LGTBIQ Pride. One more year will be celebrated the achievements achieved, the rights won, and it is also day to reaffirm our commitment to the struggles for the rights denied to people with different sexual orientation or gender identity than has been imposed as hegemonic and normal. From Elkarrekin We can reaffirm our firm will to continue working towards an egalitarian, just, and violence-free society for all. We do so on a day-to-day basis in this Parliament, putting forward concrete measures. Today we bring this initiative on discrimination, harassment and LGBTIQphobic violence, and we have, first and foremost, to acknowledge the efforts made by all groups to reach this agreement. Although we also have to say that at the last moment the Basque Nationalist group and the PSE have questioned the inclusion of the participation of the feminist movement together with expert professionals, education agents and LGBTIQ movement. They do not understand what the feminist movement has to do with historical struggles for the rights of LGBTIQ people. I've been perplexed, because what you can't understand is this story without the feminist movement. But we keep going. This initiative is relevant and necessary, because we live in a heteropatriarchal society – hence the feminist movement – and inherits values imposed by years of dictatorship and the most Catholic moral race. Persons whose sexual orientation or gender identity does not conform to heteronormativeness have historically been excluded, never seen, and there have been times not so far away when they were included in the Law on Vagos and Maleantes, subjected to electroshock therapies, tortured, beaten and discriminated against. Just as we will never refer to the heterosexual population as a collective, we propose to make an effort to put aside the collective term LGTBIQ, because heteronormality is not the universal, although they have made us believe it for years and years. We demand sexual diversity as a characteristic of all people and of any society, and we put the impulse of specific measures, positive actions when necessary, to ensure the full exercise of rights and citizenship of all. We are taking firm steps towards the legal recognition of rights, the progress is undeniable; however, still today, in 2017, acts of discrimination, harassment and violence persist that are expressed in very different ways, from comments, jokes of immigrants and insults, to aggression and murder. The range of violence is very broad. Gender identity or effective-sexual orientation cannot be an obstacle to living a life free from violence and discrimination of any kind. We must move towards a social system in which there are no unequal power relations based on gender. We want and work to ensure that people are valued and educated without stereotypes of conduct and practices based on concepts of inferiority and subordination between the sexes, to contribute to the development and well-being of society and that all of us can participate on an equal footing in political, economic, social, cultural or other life, thus enjoying universal human rights. Unfortunately, hate crimes and LGBTIQphobia continue to be established in our society. These days we have been aware of episodes of public and extreme violence for reasons of sexual orientation and gender identity in Murcia and Valladolid, during both LGTBIQ Pride parades. From here our absolute rejection and solidarity with all the people raped and the LGBTIQ population as a whole. Here in Euskadi, according to Ararteko's report, significant legal and social progress has been made in recent years in relation to the equalization of the rights of LGBTIQ people. However, we have found that these changes are not entirely translated into reality, with discriminatory situations still occurring in different areas, such as education, institutional or legal. Discrimination and harassment of people LGTBIQ is a structural phenomenon, present – as they claim from Ararteko – in different areas. It is expressed in work, in the street, in houses, in leisure and leisure spaces, in social networks, in the public administration, in private companies. In short, it passes through society as a whole. LGBTBIQphobic violence is the most serious and extreme manifestation of this discrimination and harassment. It also happens in formal and non-formal education. Educational institutions are a mirror of society, permeated by the system of racist and patriarchal values that sustains discrimination, harassment and violence. A child or adolescent who, at this stage of the construction of identity, has conduct that is considered non-heteronormative, that violates the gender stereotypes and roles imposed on each sex, or with a family that does not conform to the traditional hegemonic heteropatriarchal model, is more exposed to discrimination, harassment and violence of society as a whole, and of the inclusive educational system. It is manifested through the abuse of equals, from adults to children, children and adolescents, and also through institutional practices that, by action or omission, are discriminatory or enabling LGBTIQphobic behaviors. According to UNESCO, homophobic school bullying is a universal problem that occurs in all countries, regardless of beliefs or cultures. In our educational centres, the Basque Institute for Evaluation and Educational Research conducts periodic studies on the abuse of equals. In 2012, it was stated that 23.6% of ESO students had witnessed that some partner was continually excluded because he was considered gay; more than 10% of ESO students claimed to have seen cases of continued exclusion for this reason. During the 2013-2014 course, Berdindu conducted the study entitled "Activities on affective-sexual diversity in classrooms". According to the report, 62% of students interviewed in Bizkaia and 70% in Gipuzkoa claimed to have witnessed homophobic insults at the educational centre. In the last report on equal treatment in 2016, it can be seen, among other things, that in the ESO the highest percentage of discrimination is given because the person is considered homosexual (19.2%) and because of rumors of their sexual orientation (11.9%). In March of this year we have learned that a diagnostic test has been carried out in public classrooms with documentation to be completed by boys and girls, with questions designed from a traditional and heteropatriarchal family conception. It clearly invisibly (and therefore denied) the existence of affective-sexual diversity and models of families existing in our society. We said this in April and insist once again: this is also discrimination; indirect, but not least in violation of rights. We are talking about situations in which a seemingly neutral provision, criterion or practice may cause a particular disadvantage to persons on grounds of sexual orientation, gender expression or gender identity, or belonging to a specific family group, taking as a reference the definition proposed by the proposed law against discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation, gender identity or expression and sexual and social equality of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transsexual, transgender and intersex women registered at the Congress of Deputies on 4 May. In this time of normative progress, there is a gap between law and fact, between the norm that guarantees rights and daily life, with a multitude of episodes in which it is still undervalued, discriminated against, invisibled, denied the sexual diversity of all. From Elkarrekin We understand that the approach to discrimination, harassment and violence LGTBIQphobic requires a global vision that observes the direct relationship between discrimination, inequality and violence, that makes visible the framework of values and principles that support and enable violence, while this is also a tool to correct those who deviate from hegemonic values. We believe that we need to generate new comprehensive and coherent policies, as well as to strengthen existing policies for equal treatment and non-discrimination, with specific measures to prevent and eradicate LGBTIQphobic violence, which should be developed in various areas, including education. The field of education is key to the promotion and promotion of new principles and values in society, as well as to the socialization of children in spaces free from discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation or gender identity or various family arrangements. With this initiative we will try to promote an improvement in policies to prevent and eradicate the abuse of equals, harassment and discrimination that occurs by action or omission against the LGBTIQ population in the education system. Before we break down the points of the transaction, we want to re-recognize the effort we have made. In fact, the recess we have made has been because until the last moment we have been negotiating nuances. As to the content of the transaction, we highlight the following ideas. First, recognizing the work that is already being done from the Berdindu Eskolak service, we propose to have the work plan for the next year-course 2017-2018, before the start of the course. In addition, we will have more and better information on the situation of discrimination and LGBTIQfobic abuse in educational institutions. It is essential to design reality-adjusted public policies. We have some brushstrokes in the reports made by ISEI-IVEI. We propose a monographic report, which collects ill-treatment between equals but also institutional, direct or indirect discrimination, which is more subtle and difficult to identify, but which is equally harmful to boys and girls. In this line, we take the master plan against discrimination and the prevention of gender-based violence and its monitoring and technical commissions, as a framework and platform for promoting specific measures. Continuing with the idea of strengthening the existing, we propose to strengthen the coordination and articulation of existing policies, in order to achieve greater integrality and coherence, optimize resources and improve their impact. We agree to review and update the guide to care for harassment situations, incorporating specific measures to prevent and eradicate abuse and LGBTIQfobic discrimination in the education system. And finally, the undersigned parliamentary groups are committed to developing inclusive discourses and to using inclusive and non-discriminatory language with sexual diversity. We'll be careful. From Elkarrekin We can reiterate our satisfaction that we have arrived with all groups at this transaction that touches on different aspects of this phenomenon, with proposals to improve educational policies as a whole, and more focused proposals for the prevention and eradication of exclusion and LGBTIQfobic violence in schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Houseboy, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u31	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. "It was more than a symbolic act burning a closet in the village. He helped me a lot during the power process. It's a big step to get out of the hiding-place in the villages." Not so much ago, but we could say it was about 20 years ago. But two weeks ago the light was said in an interview published in the magazine, the words were made by a 26-year-old. This shows us that we have still a great deal to do to get to the differences between cities and nations, to encourage or protect associations, to arrive at the homophobia apparent in public, to arrive at the situations given in education, and to develop the plan of action which will reach the Hulying homophobic.... We have therefore something to do, something to improve and to ripen. This other proposition, which I have just pointed out, is a matter of interest in the co-ordination of the plans of education, as well as of the other. To begin with, I should like to thank Arana for the proposal, and above all for the labour and labour which they have done, because we have some sort of agreement that give pleasure in our hands. Puta or stock. These are the two limits the public affects. The two stereotypes that can reach and limit "good women" or "good men." Every man, every one of them, is a limit to it; "Don't be too emotional," "Don't play with dolls, or you'll be a pussy." I'm sure it's a story that's known to more than one here. And passing that line will often cause punishment. This is one of the effects of confusion and identities. If I have masculine and feminine elements within me, I find the Masculinos and femeninos of all orders. It's just how I live them. Being a feminine woman, as a matter of fact, does not necessarily make you straight; and, on the other hand, a very masculine man can have homosexual orientations, and they have them. Sadly, we confound identity and orientation, and assign certain specific identity to homosexualities. Thus, to reduce certain identities, some orientations are used, and some orientations are assigned to restrict identity. Why am I involved in this mess? To show that we are in the presence of many oppressions. On the one hand, the homophobic bulldoging affects us all, both men and women. So far as the identities are graduated, so far as we are separated by "good" and "bad," it affects us all. And because those who pass the frontier show us who are obedient. However, in the school zone, we ought to remark that this bulldog affects young men, all the boys, but we can't forget the lesbian invisibility. But, as I said, we are all in the face of an oppressive system that affects us all. That's why it's so important to talk about the hetereropathized. The supposed heterosexuality, which we have already mentioned in other commissions, has a great relation to the patrician, because identity and bearing confounds and draws many limits to our society. And so we made our suggestion by Podemos to complete one of the men in this sense: The LGTBIQfob of this integral plan of treatment. Instead of sharing and dividing our resources, we should combine and become stronger. Because they have the right bond, because they make each other rich, and we grab the general hat. In fine, because we believe that it is the most effective instrument to educate us outside the genera' barracks. And therefore because any sexual variety, identical, family, functional, social, or whatever it is, gives us the most suitable mechanism of answering to the builder in pedagogical manner. We also add to the term LTBIQ+, which increases ever more and more, because it is necessary to add to the table the manifold identity and orientations: Lesbians, ivorys, gays, flits, transessexuals, intersexuals, queerkers... We have gone to proclaim with time what we are saying, and we speak of all this variety to make ourselves at the place where they please. Let us, then, call it multiplicity, and apply the measures which it requires. Today, in education. As the members of the Navarre Kattinger say: "If we're going to take the whole alphabets in the law, we'll do it." Today's a good start. Maybe more than that, a very good beginning. But this Hebrew plan, which we're talking about, requires also a legal, legal protection. This point of view will therefore be of great importance to the present in the plans of education which may be derived from the law of LGTBIQ. For prevention is the most effective instrument in resisting any neglect. Prevention and education. In this direction the professor of Clouds ought to have the form of a genus, family, and sexual organization; to form the parents of the students in the genus, family, and sexual language; in the school of Ibbones, to determine the protocols to resist the pursuit of LGTBIQ+; to have the right to use the common and changing room he has chosen; in Lierni, to have the right to identify the names he chose; in the classrooms you have spread me in respect and in multiplicity, etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc. After all, no one ever had to leave a closet somewhere. Because we're going to have an education system that won't fit anyone in the closet. And as the friends of Chrysallis have taught us better than well to be free and happy, so Marke, Michael, Leo, or Willee, like the rest of the young men. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u33	Thank you very much, President. LGTBIQ people continue to be discriminated against by the persistence of deep-rooted homophobic, transphobic and sexist stereotypes within our society. That is why, in order to make progress in a more democratic society, where existing sexual diversity is respected, a strong and strong commitment is needed in different areas, but primarily in the educational sphere. It is important to stress the importance of promoting education in the coexistence and respect for the diversity and rights of all citizens, much more if we take into account that a context of harassment and persecution of this population at the global level continues to exist today. I would like to point out that in February 2014 the European Parliament adopted the Lunacek report by a large majority, which called for action to defend a group from which half of its members said they had felt discriminated, and a fourth acknowledged that they had received threats or physical attacks, which constituted a whole proposal for a road map against homophobia and discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity. And, although much progress has been made in recent years, the persistence of a sexual prejudice that, regardless of correct political positions, continues to persist on an affective level between our young people and our young people, which demonstrates the need to continue to insist and work on this issue and to lay the foundations for achieving a gradual normalization. In the educational sphere, between 60 and 62% of students have witnessed homophobic attitudes, such as mockery, insults and rumours, and almost half of students have witnessed the exclusion of these people from school. Everyone has the right to education, without any discrimination based on and with due respect for their sexual orientation or gender identity. It is therefore necessary to lay the foundations for an educational system in the peaceful exercise of rights, based on respect for the diversity of citizens, in order to give effect to their own rights and enable others to exercise their own rights, in an increasingly diverse, equal and free society. We Socialists attach great importance to this. That is why my parliamentary group, Basque Socialists, has already had a non-legislative proposal in the past parliamentary term in March 2014, in which we wanted to prevent and prevent discrimination and school harassment on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity. And thanks to this non-legislative proposal, the I Plan Director of co-education and prevention of gender-based violence included everything related to attention and discriminatory behaviours and attitudes to the LGBTIQ collective. At that time, my parliamentary group advocated the implementation of a specific plan to prevent and prevent discrimination and school harassment on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity, which could not be, but was included in the I Master Plan for Co-education and Prevention of Gender Violence, and a compromise amendment was reached between the Basque Nationalist group, the EH Bildu group, Basque Socialists and the Popular Party to further progress in the field of education, education and health. The evaluation of this plan is now being finalized, with a view to making any improvements that are deemed relevant within the II Master Plan for the Co-education and Prevention of Gender Violence, which articulates educational policies and for equal treatment and non-discrimination on the grounds of ethnicity, race, origin, sexual orientation or gender identity, within which we can also consider the Eraberean and Berdindu Network, and we will continue to make progress in this direction in order to make these policies visible and enhance. In order to be able to have tools, strategies and resources to educate in sexual and gender diversity, prevent school harassment and educate in respect for equality, incorporating the content of equality into the curriculum. We have also continued to make progress in this legislature in this area, and already on 26 May the Commission on Human Rights and Equality adopted a compromise amendment signed by the Basque Nationalist, Basque Socialist, EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos, concerning information to citizens on various existing sexual and gender realities, where the work carried out by the Berdindu public service in favour of LGBTBIQ people was already recognized, as well as urging the Basque Government to continue to train and equip teachers with educational tools, on sexual, gender and family diversity, in line with the Berdindu Eskola and Escuela Segura programmes, among other points. That is why we will vote in favour of the compromise amendment that we have finally signed by the Basque Nationalist Group, the Basque Socialist Group, the Elkarrekin Podemos Group and EH Bildu, where the elaboration of the work plan of Berdindu Eskola is collected before the next year or course 2017-2018. The elaboration of a specific study on discrimination, harassment and violence LGTBIQphobic in primary and secondary education is included. And, once the evaluation of the I Master Plan for Co-education and Prevention of Gender Violence has been completed, take into account for adjustments all that has been seen to be appropriate within that evaluation and incorporate it into the second master plan. And then highlight also the need to work in coordination between the Department of Employment and Social Policy and the Ararteko, within this second master plan, and review the guide of action. And within the participation to review that guide of action, Mrs Arana, we obviously give importance to the opinion that feminist groups may have, but we believe that a broader definition had to be drawn up, which also includes those feminist groups, which will obviously have that participation, but also, logically, the LGTBIQ movement. They are not excluded, therefore, within the review and update of the performance guide, they are included in the expression, but they include many more people. And then continue to work on a model of identity for women and men from an egalitarian and stereotype-free perspective, which is fundamental to continue to raise awareness of society and educate on those values. And finally we are committed to developing inclusive discourses, with inclusive language and non-discriminatory towards LGBTIQ people. I believe that this is a good agreement, and we must therefore welcome the fact that we have reached this compromise amendment between the various groups that are going to adopt it today. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u34	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Madam, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. First of all, thank you for the deal we've made. I think it's a good deal. We had a hard time, but we made a deal. Arana anderea, nik uste had ez of the leftover ikusten ditugunik mugimendu feministak-eta. Nik youte dut guri hori salatu diguzunean, aipatu dituzula mugimendu feministak, the agents LGTBIQ and you have done there a... I have said the feminist movements and the agents LGTBIQ, and the experts in this matter we have kept them. I mean, all we could see was that. We're talking about another topic. We believe that feminist movements, agents, feminist collectives are very important, the Basque Government works in different areas with many movements, but we did not see that this was the case. Nothing more. We may say that we are in the presence of a transition to recognize the socially affected ideas of generation. The world's vision has changed a lot. The things we used to leave behind us, fortunately, are revealed, and we have gone on a great deal in the field of human rights. We see in the report of the interrogator, and as you may well explain in your enterprise, there have been great progresses, but we still have a great deal to do. And so our team thinks we still have a lot to do. So far as it is a material problem, it is given by saying that it is not at all in the different districts, but in the other case it relates to the world of education, and in the middle we have obtained, we have more especially defined education, and I shall be speaking of it today. There's a lot of data about the pursuits, the bullying cases that are being tried in the schools today. It's a lot of tests, and that's a lot of study, I think, shows the importance and importance of this subject, which we finally want to consider and apply more efficient politics by these observations. We've already got two and I'll stick to them. It's "bad business with the students from 2016. This study is the 5th research where the students of the First Education and DBH are received in their opinion of schooling and the 93 Schools of the First Education and the 1992 Schools of DBH. The consciousness and sensibility of the last ten times has increased in proportion to the importance of the persecution between school classmates. We see in this also that more boys are treated badly than girls. And second, we just had a diagnosis that came out of the Eucombophobia, homophobia, and transphobia in the education system, which was in 2016. The principal results which have been obtained in this respect are that they seem to admit of the affected and familiar diversity of teenagers, and to respect the collective LGTBI. Besides, family skills are getting more and more tolerated. It is true, however, that this entrance is in discourse, and is more and more respectful, but in these researches we can see that there are cognitive, touching, and acting, and these are still given. These Phobias appear, and we believe that they still have secret prejudices, and that they are produced by them, and that they have no reason to be in a state of opposition or blame, but something which is drawn from ignorance. We find it important to bisilize and really to know the situations. It is also a significant fact that girls show a more positive attitude in regard to morality, and that they use language-like behavior less than boys. On the other hand, the boys say it would be hard for them to tell their friends that they were gay because they thought they'd throw them away or make them laugh. In such matters, as I have already mentioned, ignorance makes reality seem deformed, and this brings fear to us. The struggle against LGTBIphobia is a defense of the principle of equality, of dignity, and of human rights. Divisity is wealth, and based on it, we must act for a more exclusive, more just, and more respectful society. We must confess that school is a perfect place for these matters, and it is essential that education's unit should be transformed into an active agent against LGTBIphobia, an active agent against any kind of neglect, by giving proper attention to the prevention and the subject. But of course, it's not just school work. The complexity of society is necessary, the most communicative, and that of the same family, because they begin from home to be the education and the character of persons. The education system has its protocols for the guidance of a guide plan and the prevention of the profundity of the genus to the "trans" or "transs" of the student, or to those who do not appreciate the character of the genus, and to aid their families. We think of our team that the Board of Education works hard and hard on this subject, and that we must acknowledge the work that is done. We have, it's true, we still have work to do, but the road's starting. My job was to develop sex and many genera's policies at the start of the billing. Through equal conditions, to pay attention to the collective LGTBI by service, we seek to strengthen equality and to weaken the lack of equality. Our party will remain firm in the defence of all men's rights, whatever sort of neglect or reason it may be, by encouraging the protection of public politics, and opposing it against neglect. That's why we signed the media tonight. The Enplex and Society Department, as well as the Educational Department, urges us to step forward, to force them in their course, and to step in the cosmisation of divergence. As far as we are an advanced people, I believe that variety gives us strength and values to be protected and strengthened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Guruga. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u37	Thank you, CEO. The point we are dealing with now I think is one we can congratulate on, because very different and very different people have been able to reach an agreement. I believe that, in that sense, it is exemplary. And when I say that very different and with very different thoughts I will remember a few words from Mr Iñaki Oyarzabal, who had such a debate and who said something that is fundamental to us and that guides our action in this kind of approach. He said, "Homosexuality" – they were only talking about homosexuality, here we should say sexual diversity – "is a condition, not an ideology. It's not an ideology. We have to solve people's problems, not try to use and take advantage of people's problems to make ideology and partyism." I believe that these words are fundamental in this matter. And then he explains that when he says "people's problems" they don't refer to the condition, but to the social consequences that that condition has. So, understanding that what it is about here is to solve unfair problems arising from personal conditions that in no way can be understood as problematic in themselves, we have reached a consensus with the rest of the groups. Without the courage to debate, without the desire to argue, I would like to make clear some aspects in which we do not agree with the justifications that have been given. Let's see, when it comes to talking about how we have to achieve neutrality, I think that precisely getting to neutrality is to erase sexual diversity. I am remembering those times when it is said that the prints have to be absolutely neutral. For I believe that that is precisely to erase diversity, and above all it is to deny many legitimate people pride: the legitimate pride of being a mother, the legitimate pride of being a father. And above all it is also sometimes..., we run a risk, which is to make people feel some kind of guilt that supposedly and statistically have a sexual diversity that is likely to be statistically majority. But that statistical majority, of course, is quantitative, it is not qualitative, and what cannot be endured and we are not going to endure is that on behalf of that statistical majority it is hurt, offended, persecuted, made to suffer anyone. We'll agree on that. That's what I'm talking But it seemed important to me, and without the courage to argue... , because of what there is no doubt that in some manifestations of which we hear there is a strong ideological burden. And that is why I return to the words of my predecessor in this rostrum, Iñaki Oyarzabal: "Homosexuality – sexual diversity – is a condition, not an ideology". Using it for ideological purposes harms the fight against homophobia itself. It is not necessary to belong to an ideology to fight against unjust situations; it is enough to be a complete human being. Any complete human being, think as he thinks, without the need to be feminist or to visualize life as heteropatriarchal or heteromatrical (because on this earth ours is very heteromatrical), without talking about things as heteronormative – which perhaps well explained could even be assumed in part, but which used as ideological tools tend to make us retreat – but, as I say to you, it is enough to be a complete person to fight against any discrimination on grounds of sexual diversity. That is why we have reached an agreement. I do not want to end without saying that I am a little short of the fact that more emphasis had been placed on the Berdindu service, especially Berdindu Eskola. In what we are going to approve, because we all agree, Berdindu Eskola and Red Eraberean come in parentheses. I believe that they have a great role to play, and that at Berdindu service we must strengthen it. And also logically ask for accountability, but we must strengthen it. And with regard to the participation of other social actors in the issue, therefore, that is what the Eraberean Network is for. The Eraberean Network is the initiatives of Berdindu and the initiatives not only of the Basque Government, but also of this Parliament, shared with the social partners. It is a social network, and therefore as a channel for all the different points of view on the subject, it is very important. I'm sorry you haven't been given that importance here. I tell you, it comes in parentheses: "Working in coordination Department of Employment and Social Policies (Berdindu Eskola and Red Eraberean) and the Ararteko...". I think it's very good, but we need to strengthen what we have. And what we have is this, and we have to give it the means and then we have to ask for accountability, and trust them. Because, if we read the reports they publish, the truth, we see that they are a dedicated, tireless and truly vocational service. I conclude by saying that, as complete people, we have joined this compromise amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Passing to response shift... No? No one's going to say a word? Now that the debate is over, we'll vote together with Podemos, Euskal Popula, Basque Sociists, EH and Eukobertarians, half-correction signed by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the companies, 72; the given votes, 75; the supporters 75; the opponents are 0,0; white; 0; abstentions; 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u39	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "EGGGAIN and Together, a proposition made by the parliamentary group of Podemos, concerning the violation of the Use and Management of the Dissolubation of the Medical Department. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, the representative of the Podemos team has the word to run the lead and get rid of it. Mr. Becerra is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. Good morning, everyone. In the eighty-year-olds, biosferre of Umibai, the first district of nature was protected by the parliamentary law. What had become of pride and joy in the first days has become, unfortunately, a caricature. At the time when she had all the ingredients of being the richest land of the Basques: In the valley of Guernica, there were productive industry. In the interior villages were agriculture and black-puddings, rooted and balanced on the ground. On the coast, fishing prevailed. And above this, in the whole region, there were traces of personality, in the region of culture, between history and tradition, which is extraordinary and unique. This human system, in which culture, history, and economy mingle, is involved in a natural centre to produce something richer. And this centre of nature is also extraordinary, with great ecological significance and wonderful in the landscape. It is a very extraordinary place in the migration of birds between Europe and Africa, and at the same time, balanced and living in the middle of the mountains and the sea. That's why we protected the U-shirt so we could keep up with it. And that is why we made biosferia-reserba, in order to maintain this unique connection between the human system and nature, that connexion is the one and the only one that makes it unrelenting. But I must say that the Jesuits of Biscae have never believed in the Urals. Moreover, the Jesuits of Biscaia have never understood what the stomach is, or what the bisfera-reservation is. And the worst, because of this incomprehensibleness, they have refused to protect and to develop the wealth of the country. Not only the EAJ, but the government and the Indulous Forkau could have done much more than they've done for the last 20 years. And we suspect that some people will prefer criticizing rather than sharing, if we suspect that they prefer to say, "You see, after they have protected the environment, we can neither live nor do anything." When we speak of nature, it is plain that the discursive systems are living places. There are eleven animals and one plant in communication and balanced between them. Man, of course, has his place in those parts, and a man may take what he needs to live well from a system like the stomach, but the balance is as little changed as possible for a permanent ecosystem. And in bacon too. That's why some parts in the region are legally protected and others not. Consistency is our main goal. In a natural area, we have a legal instrument called PRUG that can be organized and what is to be done according to local fragility. The content of the GRUs must not be arbitrary, but those established by experts and scientists. That's how they got the 10-year study of the PRUGs that the law calls for. For this purpose, during 2011 years, several of the scientific seminars had been organized by researchers from the Basque Country University, by the moments of permanent education and development. In these seminars, in advance, they examined a number of reports and accepted foreign contributions. They wrapped the whole work in a document as a sketch of the new PRUG. Instead of taking over the seminars and investigations, EAJkoM took them away, and last year he accepted another document. It's not just the lack of technical and scientific criteria, but it doesn't even have legal validity in that document. And it's not the first time. For the same reason, both the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court of Spain, in the April of 2005, had abandoned it for the same reasons as the preceding PRUGs. That is to say, by changing the surface and extension of protected areas in the PRUG, and not in the law, the jury decided that in the Omnipotent between the Omnipotents the principle of the "Natural hierarchy" has been violated, and consequently judged the entire annihilation of the counter-determined decree by right. In addition to this, the jury established the change of the PRUGs, regardless of technical and scientific arguments, that it fell into the error of injustice, in order not to justify the changes made. So in last last year's change, it was the same thing that you made the same mistake again. On the 21st of July, the patrician of the Usdai accepted the new GRUR after the departure of the University of the Basque Country. And only two days after the election, when the government was in business, he published this PRRRG on the bulletin through a decree. What's the matter now? That many civil agents have submitted a resource against this decree during the prosecution of the administration. And they say they have every chance to win. What was to be done, then? Well, our first plan was to cancel the decree, and that's why we both introduced the other proposal like ourselves. Fortunately, after we've talked to the government, we've come to an agreement, by means of a half-way proposal. We must, no doubt, begin again with the help of scientists and investigators, in order to maintain the legal security. Besides this, the partnership of associations and of men is indispensable in order to obtain a part of the document. But in the meantime, we have to stop some of the articles of the forces in force so as not to be occupied by the protected zones of nature. The coast could be as rich and famous as the Tyrol of Austria, the one and the unreproachable site, the Basque pride. But on the contrary: Some of them are trying to turn into Beverly Hills, a second town residence, or a place of luxury in the old farms. For some it is only the garden round the shawl, the other is the soil for breeding pines or eucalyptuses, or worse, the soil for recalating more shawls. In the '80s the consciousness of environment was small, it is true, but those who follow the wrong course 20 years later will have no excuse, they will have to explain to the inhabitants of the Urals the motives for denying the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u41	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mr. Otero, representative of the EH Group, has the word to present and defend himself.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u42	Yes, thank you, ma'am. Good afternoon, already, all of us. We've been working on bacon stuff for a long time. It was an initiative proposed at the very beginning of season, and has brought us here, so that the complexity of the matter itself gives us time. For my part, I'd like to thank the Podemos team, especially Joser Becera, because we've been working together and have learned together about the case in the Urdai. And I also want to thank the different agents who have been an inspirational or an inspiration from the initiative today, and believe in the Biosfer of the Usdabai Reserve, and there have been a great many. And although we have had severe discussions during the season of the season, yet I should like to thank him for the position of the Socialist Party, especially to Natalia Rojo. I must also say that he's done a great job here, and not just him, but also the District Attorney and his staff. I'm glad to hear it. our proposal will appear to-day (or it may seem so), although in some cases it is a little surprising. And if we had to explain what we have come to-day-it will always be according to interpretations, but we believe that in our previous law, not badly, there was a very ill-closed procedure which seems to us to open up to make things better. Don't think about correcting Usage and Management I'll say PRING when the Plan is in radians (and forgive translators, I haven't passed the text and I know it's complicated). Well, that's it: The GRI will now open, and, of course, we must continue our discussion, and the discussion will not be easy, but at least we feel a change of will. In our part, in this new procedure which opens, we would like to show you the intention of joining the constructive mode. We can't predict that we're happy to arrive at the finish line, but at least the plan to correct the use and the administration will be done again. Considering the arguments which the Environmentians have placed with great reason in the courts of justice, I shall speak of it later on. And perhaps the most important thing, as long as it is done, is that the most violent, vile aspect of the plan adopted by the EAJ in the year 2016, and that there are many, is that which orders us to stop? It seems to me, therefore, that since he has received it from September, many of them who have been sharpening their teeth must wait a little until they are ordered again. For it is evident that if the former Government had done things right, it would not be necessary to-day, the old GRUG, that is to say, to test the GRIG of 2016, and to start again at the moment of a year less than a year? I think that's significant. And we pointed out this danger in his time, and then Dan Maeztuc made an interpolation for the chief physician of the Unzalus, and at that moment 2010. In the course of the year the U-RU revision began, and we said to be careful, for there were many foxes waiting in this war of the Urals, who had been waiting for so many years for his moment, and the chief physician of the Unzalus told us that many laws had been accepted and changed, and that it was necessary to change the GRU. And things, in themselves, did not begin very badly: the inspection of the environmental impacts began, part-processing process... But everything went slow and unfinished. Then came a change of government, and EAJ entered the department, and things began to get worse. If anyone wanted to know what was wrong, we'd have to spend a few hours here and we don't have that time. But in order to make a schema, there are some things we can discuss. From the Forms. It was funny how the job didn't answer, the part of the process was cut off. Why start the party process to cut everything off after that, right? Thus the comradeship of the Umibai was tested with the opposition of the Council, running and hurrying. It was also very curious to accept the date: The elections were on September 26th, and the chief physician signed the 27th September, leaving it post as a postman to handle all of the war in this session, eh? That's from forms. But even in the case of content, many things seem rather serious, and I will give only a few details, I have no more time to say. What is clear is, that the regulation of the several provinces of special maintenance and the special protection of birds is in some measure violated. The RUGs of 2016 protects the laws of the Ural. That the planet of administration, site, or kernel, permits several uses which the laws of the Urals are not able to make, and that the same is the case with those called "Zeros tapmón" or "Zeros tapmón." But the field of management has been marked by various areas or cores, changing the special protection areas against the law, which is not legal because of the principle of hierarchy, as I think we shall soon see. Moreover, before the management plans were made, the plan of organising the resources of nature (which is a legitimate demand), and the examination of the environmental impacts, which was carried on, was not made, and the management plan has no statement of environmental implacations. If it were but little, in Gumán Alonso, according to the environmental doctor, it is said in a report of his own that the plan of action is capable of an invariable 21 use, which is allowed by the Jesuit to correct the use of the Urdai and the administration of the plan 2016. In a word, and in a word, we may safely say that the plan of use adopted 2016 was a flat. Running. Mistake. He's thought of legalizing many abuses he's done before, and the worst of all, he's going to ruin the protection of the U-Bait reserve from now on. But it seems to me that after this there will be some correlative. And after all, it's a reflection of a way of understanding bacon, isn't it? It seems to me you ought to say that you haven't really believed in the Urals, or at least not as a biosferra-reserba; for it is plain that the biospheres have effects in the use of this environment, that what can be done is reduced, and just for that reason, there is the Alternism for the Social Development, and it has been hidden in drawers without resources. It was either there or it might have been there to develop the busrit. But here is a historical problem: here, unless the whole business was control of the Urals, as long as the Control is singing, it's gone backwards and forwards instead of going forwards. "If it's not under my control, it won't be developed," that was the message that was either below or behind it. And meanwhile the ordinary life, the everyday life, has gone down and down: the fish, the farm, the cattle, the industry itself... And finally the pines and the eucalyptuses and the second houses and the docks. That's the package that's been offered in the Umibai today. In this work the patrician has gone on without resources, and now, instead of a decree of 2017, he has been deprived of his jurisdiction. Well, because that's the type you've had in the Urals, isn't it? I've been spending a lot of time in the Usaibai lately, and with different agents, I've talked to our councilmen and mayors, the agents. And it's curious, at last talking to a person, a person from Umibai said to me: "Listen, if you're going to have a quarrel with EAJ, please, for us at least, from some of the local people here, tell him a message and make it very clear: [It is] not their stomachs, [It is] not their stomachs; It [is] not theirs. It [is] theirs. They have treated him as if he were always theirs." For now.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u43	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, the Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u44	Thank you, President, and good morning to all of you. On this occasion we have come to endorse a broad agreement which seeks to respond to the demand of the inhabitants of Urdaibai that this protected area should have full guarantees of that well-deserved protection, which is something that the Socialists have been working on for some time, as has been mentioned here, when Mrs Unzalu was a adviser to the Basque Government. We value the agreement, and we value the effort that has been made to avoid finalist positions and to bet on participation and all legal caution in the actions that will be undertaken and in which the Department of Environment is already working. Because what we endorse today is that we do a task that we recognize was pending, and from there a master plan for the use and management of the Urdaibai Biosphere Reserve is drawn up. And we give the deadline of one month, which we recognise is not a usual deadline when agreements are reached in this Parliament, but it is a perfectly achievable deadline for the advice that Mr Arriola is leading, because this issue was at the forefront of his commitments when the Socialists signed the government agreement with the Basque Nationalist Party, and therefore the task is advanced. And he was also talking about caution; that, in the meantime, this master plan was approved, that no action should be taken on the reservation that could not be reversed afterwards. There are evils – and we know this from experience elsewhere – that, once we intervene, environmental evil is done, and any subsequent correction does not cease to be palliative measures that do not allow us to return to the previous point, or, if necessary, after years of endless judicial proceedings. We Socialists often repeat that politics should not be judicialized, and, we add, we cannot judicialize environmental protection. Environmental balance must be a cross-cutting policy that we must resolve in institutional forums, which are clearly political. That is why it seems to us that this resolution is particularly prudent, knowing how we know that three administrative disputes are pending, which, in their case, can then be raised to higher judicial bodies because one of the parties is not satisfied with the judicial resolution. We do not want a sham that leaves in the limbo of legal uncertainty the decisions that could be taken in the meantime in Urdaibai. We will open the real debate that this reservation needs, and the Basque Socialists want to do so as the compromise amendment says: facilitating the participation of the agents of the region and the scientific community in the process; incorporating the best environmental, social, economic and cultural criteria; promoting applied research associated with management; enhancing participatory processes; promoting environmental education, among others. It seems to us that we are opening a great opportunity for this master plan to be not only a declaration of protection intentions, but not a mere tool for managing uses, but also a tool for innovation and sustainable economic progress in a region. The joint initiative presented today by EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos concerns an important issue and at its controversial moment. The objective embodied in the original text was to suspend the modification of the Urdaibai PRUG. On 27 September 2016, as already mentioned, the Basque Government approved the revision of this management plan for Urdaibai, while a participatory process was paralysed that was already under way and involving different actors. We must recognise the rejection of this document by the collectives, and even, as we have already said here, the submission of three contentious cases which are currently before the courts. The PRUG is the policy document that orders the activities to be carried out on the non-urbanized soil of the Urdaibai Biosphere Reserve from a sustainability approach. In addition, it promotes nature conservation and restoration through land zoning, the identification of the most sustainable environmental areas and the prioritization of ecosystem restoration needs. The justification presented to us by Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu referred to two specific regulations (Law 45/1989 and Decree 242/1993), which must be taken into account and we should not forget who we manage the governments. The Urdaibai Act was an ad hoc law, which aimed to establish a special legal regime for this environment, as reflected in article 1, which must be read textually and which governments should not forget either. The agreement that we have reached today, a broad agreement, which is true that we are not too accustomed to these issues, in the view of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, means, on the one hand, the desire to protect the Urdaibai Biosphere Reserve by all those who have signed the compromise amendment (and we believe that on the part of the Socialist People's Party as well); on the other hand, the desire to take sound decisions, taking into account the judicial process in which this issue is involved, with the three contentious ones we have said, and therefore we believe that the adopted text is the most guarantor for the Basque Government; and on the other hand, it means, of course, that in order to agree we have to give in, and I believe that we have been able to do so on this occasion. I therefore believe that we should be happy, because the issue was very controversial, and of course we understood, when we received the initiative, that the initial agreement was not difficult. I therefore believe that we should all congratulate ourselves, because I believe that today the Urdaibai Biosphere Reserve is more protected than yesterday. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u45	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Arrears, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Chief Physician, Mr. President, good morning. Well, first of all, I would like to fix a little bit the conceptual framework in which the debate is moving, because I think that with some previous intervention it has been a little sketched out, they have gone a little bit to the cartoon. The biosphere reserve, the figure of the biosphere reserve, was created thirty years ago by UNESCO, and its main objective is to achieve a sustainable balance between the conservation of biological diversity, the conservation of related cultural values and sustainable economic development. Biosphere reserves are therefore an instrument that seeks to harmonize conservationism with human development. The conceptual framework is this. These are the principles he enumerated, and in this parliament, in the year of Eukon Christmas, in 1989, he was given a legal body, known to him as "The Law of God." This law served to fix general activity methods, and has had a remarkable Normative development in the course of the next 30 years. As great as can be, in 1994, and in the year that has been approved, I will go to the middle-class acronym, all of us know that they are the programmen for the handling of biosfer, eucacution by saying: To mention others, they were also the origin of the patrician, the program of PADAS, and the program for interpretation, investigation, and education. There are other projects, too, but what's in the klaru is that this legal body shows that we have a huge legal structure to protect that region in the bay. With this legal body, biosphere-reserbe philosophy has lived a lot of development in the last 30 years. For philosophy is a concept without any roundness, a constantly updating source, and the laws which follow its guide's guide must therefore be a constant and consistent update. What I read in the original sense, but that's not it. It's what you've heard 30 years ago. ) It was reading. Mr. Becerra has gone even further, I don't know, but has gone to the 50-year-old model saying that it was the most balanced model. I don't know what that means. But what you're saying is, "That's what you're talking about, it's supposed to be about the nicest things for the future." That's why I don't agree with what I read from the original law girl. For he despises the philosophy I have spoken of, and embraces the most natural park. To tie hands on this evolution, from an Orthodox conservative point of view, is to sign the failure of these advanced policies. Before this, the plan, introduced as a 2016 PRUG, is far enough adapted to an effective preservation of natural space and to a tolerable economic activity. I shall mention five spikes, and with this I will oppose some arguments which have been opposed to a positive point of view. It has been accumulated in the course of 20 years of experience, making it easy and eased by administrative tramites of 20 years; and in 1995, the new ideas drawn from the Seville Conference are introduced by the new ones; it secures the share of the agents who are involved in the Urals, and secures them; As the Socialist party has also mentioned, this accumulated experience will be used from its starting-point, and in many cases as the basis of this plan. All this being true, it is also true that in the days leading up to the debate, and as we have been able to hear in the previous speeches, an important part of the House has shown discrepancies with the plan, fully or partly aligning itself with the points on which the judicial processes opened at the moment are pivotal; judicial processes, by the way, driven by associations with very antagonistic visions: foresters who want less protection, and conservationists. It is usually a good indicator, when one is in centrality, which, let's say, receives opposing opinions from both sides. Parliament takes up this concern, takes it into account in this compromise, and gives it a solution by requesting an amendment to the master plan adopted last year. Of a matter – and we know it well, and if Mr Otero is out there they will have told him –... of such a polarized and politicized matter we have reached an agreement of unanimity, and I congratulate myself on that. And I thank the three traveling companions for the signature (not just two of them). In the compromise supported by all the groups in this House, we call for a new amendment to be put in place, keeping last year's amendment in force, except in the contested articles, as long as the standard is updated. We have also agreed to suspend the contested articles, which are expected to undergo some change in the new wording of the proposed amendment. Once I have set my position on the transactional, I want to bring to the debate and share here some of the conclusions that we have lived through..., I think it would be a month and a half ago, in a few days on the updating of the DOTs, of the Territorial Planning Guidelines. We were several comrades on our bench and also, remember, Mr. Otero. There intervened I think that some prestigious planners and architects (to me seemed brilliant), and I pointed out on the blog three of the phrases that to me are key and that I will read them, I will transcribe them word by word. They said: "Euskadi is a leader and referent in the planning of the territory, but the standards parameterized and schematized are a format of the past"; "We must rely on local actors to ensure that events that were not foreseen in the norm are resolved effectively", and, finally, it was also said that "Natural and cultural heritage are not fossilized, but are an entity in constant evolution". I want to catch the witness of this last sentence, because it interferes very well with the thesis that I am maintaining in my intervention. We must not prejudge the normative development of the Urdaibai Law, but, by remaining faithful to the essence of the law and also to the essence of the philosophy that covers the concept of the biosphere reserve, we know how to adjust the plans to the evolution that is having its inspirational source in the figure of the biosphere reserve. Only in this way can we create – which is one of the objectives of the biosphere reserve – a test bank for sustainable policies that can be exported to the whole territory. Our group does not want, as did Eusko Alkartasuna, who led for sixteen years the Department of the Environment, or the Socialist Party, which is also doing so now and has done so for many years, that Busturialdea is a showcase. Opportunities exist in the agricultural, tourism and forestry sectors to ensure that this second part of the biosphere reserve, sustainable development, is a reality in the daily lives of the inhabitants of the region. The Government has offered and offers, in this regard, a model based on balance and sensitivity to the environment, away from quixotesic blocking positions, which is in part what we live in by some associations, which derive from the frustration and detachment of citizens from public policies. In this constant evolution, we will live in the short, medium and long term updates aimed at including new thought streams and new public policies, also coming from Europe, since, as I stressed at the beginning, the biosphere reserve should serve as a model for future updates. Then I'll comment on a couple more questions on the replica shift, which I find interesting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u47	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. Teams that haven't run any corrections. The representative of the American Basque Team, Mrs López de Ocarariz, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u48	Thank you, Madam President, advisers, Mr Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen. This initiative brought to us by the Podemos group together with EH Bildu tells us – reminded us by Elkarrekin Podemos spokesman – about the values surrounding the Urdaibai Biosphere Reserve; social, cultural, and especially nature and biodiversity values. It is the law of 1989 on the Protection and Management of the Urdaibai Biosphere Reserve itself, which defines the special legal framework for the reserve (protecting the integrity and enhancing the recovery of its ecosystems), and provides for the drafting of the master plan for use and management, which was approved in 1993, which had a 10-year modification forecast, which in 2003 is a one-time modification, but does not enter into a general modification of the plan. That follows, as has been reported, thirteen years later, with some attempts, with work, but what it has given is the result of what was approved in September 2016. New plan denounced in several points and aspects that are important and require a review. We are talking about the extension of residential urban land to the coast of protected rustic land, distances of protection of unrespected water servitudes, of shoreline protection, or meters of coast servitude or protection of the coast. In short, a number of amendments, as reflected in the compromise amendment itself, which you have signed. And we talk about Urdaibai, the biosphere reserve, a privileged natural environment in which human activity must be compatible with the preservation of the values that gave rise to the creation of the reserve. This, which seems so logical and simple, achieves the balance, the compatibility between the preservation of the ecosystems of the reserve and the development of the socio-economic activities of the inhabitants of this space, this, as I say to you, which seems so logical, is and has been an almost permanent conflict in this environment. And tensions are fueled by one or another, by institutions in some cases, by personalisms in others. While the Urdaibai Biosphere Reserve Protection and Management Act has paralysed a number of planned outbursts for this environment, the difficulty for management bodies to make progress in decision-making, sometimes too much difficulty, is very common in this area, leading to the judicialization of matters. Facts, after all, that make it difficult to achieve the objectives of the law itself. It took ten years to adopt the plan for the harmonization and development of socio-economic activities envisaged by the law. In this House in 2010 the People's Group presented a non-legislative proposal thinking about this, reactivating the socio-economic aspects of the reservation. A majority agreement was reached, but very little progress has been made or has been achieved. We managed to boost the Urdaibai sanitation plan in October 2014 after thirty years. It must be said that what has been lacking here has been consensus (there have been more trouble than progress), there has been a lack of budget, a lack of budget to make progress on many aspects that need to be developed in this area, and there is a lack of a projection of the future for the inhabitants of that area. We were recently reminded of a company that has had to close with two hundred jobs, because it has been prevented from adapting to the new production regulations. Those are the things that generate these permanent disagreements. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that we are facing an important challenge, which is the socio-economic development of the Urdaibai biosphere area. And it is that in the compromise amendment itself you recognise it, what has not been done and what you want done. That we agree, indeed, but the amendment is very didactic, because those who have not been in the debate can make it easier to find those aspects that have been inconsistent or not used in the development of the new general management plan for this area. In short, ladies and gentlemen, a new encounter, a new agreement of this House, and we will see what progress we have made with this new agreement. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u49	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Passing on the answers, together, Podemos, Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u50	Well, first of all, Mr Arruabarrena, I thank you very much for your intervention, given the criticism I have made about your party. But, well, I think they were necessary criticisms. I have already said that they were critical of Bizkaia's PNV, and I would not tell the whole Bizkaia's PNV, but certain people in Bizkaia's PNV. I said in my first speech that not only have you not believed in Urdaibai, but you have not understood what Urdaibai means. And I am glad, secondly, to see that you do understand what Urdaibai is. See that he understands that it is to protect not only the part of the environment, but also cultural values and human development. Because when a natural space is protected we are also preserving its tourist values, the natural resources it contains, or the potential for economic development. And Urdaibai is a unique example today of what must be a human and natural ecosystem, where culture, history and nature come together with the economy to give rise to something unique, which is what it is now. That is why it was protected by the reserve figure of the biosphere, because what had to be enhanced was balanced economic development. And when a natural space is protected, it is not protected to prohibit everything, but only those activities that are incompatible with the maintenance of the quality of the natural space. I said in my first speech that Urdaibai's reserve in the 1980s had all the ingredients to become the most prosperous region in Euskadi. He had industry, he had agriculture, he had livestock, he had fishing at the time, and he had promising prospects for tourism development, which at that time was still infancy. The question is why nothing was done with Urdaibai, why both the Government and above all the Bizkaia Diputation during these twenty years have left..., I will not say die the region, but put it on a level that would not be his. Why didn't you become the evidence bank you referred to earlier? Community funding to revitalize protected natural areas could have been used to cope with the industrial crisis they suffered in the 1990s. Some of the clean and sustainable technology companies that took to the Txorierri could have been taken there. It could perfectly have been done. We could talk about that enormously. We could talk about why Inama, when he was no longer in Mujica, the Bizkaia Diputation denied him the grounds he was asking for in Amorebieta, in Boroa. So, there have been a number of decisions that have not helped, and they are decisions that your party took in Bizkaia. A process of adaptation of farms and livestock to, for example, organic production could have been undertaken, not only to increase the added value of production, but to promote regeneration and rejuvenation of the sector. It is now being done, when the previous generation of basercratras has already retired and the next generation has already gone to work to the Duranguésado, the Txorieri or Bilbao, and that opportunity no longer exists. It could have promoted a whole quality and sustainable tourist fabric, linked to knowledge of the region's culture, history and traditions, and yet it has not been done either. Faced with that, what has been promoted are events such as the failed Guggenheim, or that rock festival that next month will be held in a protected and qualified area as an area of archaeological presumption. And those are not serious initiatives, they are not initiatives that come to develop the region's economy under a prism of sustainability. Faced with that, it gives the feeling, and I have already said it in my first speech, that some people are interested in saying more "See? It is that when we protect a space nothing more can be done, no more can be developed the economy or anything else." It's not true, it's not true. A lot of things could have been done, and they haven't been done. Faced with this, what has been done is to modify the PRUG to change the protected surface. Of course, you say, "Well, there have been resources in the Dispute-Administrative in both ways, with which we occupy centrality." The principle of centrality when we have several contentious-administrative resources is not the one that counts, the one that counts is that of legal certainty. And what I said in my first intervention is that both the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country and the Supreme Court of Spain at the time rejected a PRUG for the same reasons why they are going to throw this, which are, one, that violates the principle of normative hierarchy, with a decree that tries to modify the prescriptions of a law, and, two, because the Supreme Court has already said at the time that changing a protected area without having a scientific or technical basis is to incur nullity of full right. And, therefore, I understand that this agreement, to which I am glad that you have joined, is necessary to prevent us from getting out of our hair in a while because we have gone ahead with a PRUG which, like the previous one, will be declared illegal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u51	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Otero, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u52	Yes, thank you. I'll be brief. Mr. Bargain, thank you for the concept-frame of biosphere. I think you're ready to go to the Usai and explain to your mayor what it is, because I think it's mostly there. And I'm glad, and of course I congratulate them all by agreement. But let me make a special mention of those who have acted for the agreement, or for those who are, or for those who are, that we have not all acted with the same intensity. Then I thought it was curious to hear from you. Why, of course, you finally made a defense of the PR for 2016, didn't you? And I wonder: It's a new accepted RUG in 2016. So why are you voting? ? That's the biggest mystery right now. Why do you vote another legally, where is the point that says, "that the laws are excluded from those which are excluded from them, and that they are ranked as a super categories of the site," and that the precepts which are received in the plan which permits them to leave them alone?" Or "Separation of the temporary development of special plans by the GeRU?" Or in general? Why do you back to making a GRU when you've just accepted the other one and who was good at what you said? I think you should have explained that. And a couple more things before we finish. It's true that different departmental leaders of the Environment have worked in different colors here. I'd say, and even when I said the first words, maybe the biggest problem was not to be the one who had the department here, but the Congress, as far as the decision has been made in the hands of fun, hasn't accepted the development of the Urals and the resources that were to be put on. One more thing. 4% more protected, but some parts of the site or core went into shelters or protección de núcleo or tampón, and there's a recording. I think that's clear. And you said that the laws have been developed and you have even enumerated so many of them. And I'd like to bring back another story that I've been told about. And a person told me, maybe the line isn't the best, but he used to say, "Do you know what's going on in the bay? The Swedish plan is on paper, impecable, but later the development of Tanzania." He used to say, "Tanziana." And I have nothing against Tanzania, I don't know how things develop. But that's what she said. In the paper very well, it has a very formal level of protection; the only biosfera-serba in the Basque Country, a four-quarters of nature 2000 network, a CAC and a ZPA, a plan for social development, including PDAS socionomical Q, a 10 percent protected from the entire land of Bikkai. But then practice developed another. Instead of pushing the autoctonous forest, the pines and eucalyptus, and there the Dputations, instead of exemplary, have more than a thousand acres of pines in the public forests, and are about 235 in eucalyptus, in public forests. We did not mention the development of the Sanitation, but after thirty and fifty years of biosfera reservatory, the shit and urine of so many of the hams is a little shameful. Beaches. The quality of the beach. Why isn't there a blue flag in the bay? And why is the beach, infected in the whole of the Basque Country, the beach of Toñaa? I think it's kind of embarrassing, isn't it? I'm not going to get in the U.S.A. operation, which is where we should be until afternoon, right? Or the miserable condition of guinea-poofers, is it not? Ackuifer infected in Guernica. And you're still insisting on making a new polygon of Muxichka, when there's a chance of re-establishing several industrial soils in Gunikia, which are called brown ground or something. I think I'm just finishing up the EAJ has finally shown it to her, for EAJ, for EAJ, which the environment supposes. And you were talking about the departments of the Environment and I'd like to mention that, wouldn't you? The Environmental Department is in 1987 and the first Jeltzian Party department was Ana Org in 2012. 25 years in the government, and then you put the head section of the Environment. Think of the importance you give her. Get rid of the Ogage. The tax, the dough, there's always been a Jesuit there. I mean, you've been more greedy than environmental stewards or you've been willing to be. So it's very clear.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u53	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Basque Socialist doesn't have to speak. Eubertarians team. Mr. bottoms, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u54	Yeah. I'll go one by one and discuss what we've written here. Mrs López de Ocariz, in the discursive sphere you have been placed on the side of the solution, but, well, in practice and in previous conversations you have been placed rather in a very orthodox conservationism. And finally, being guilty of the Spanish real estate boom and the Soil Law, this way of redeeming the soul to me is not consistent with me. I'd squeal a little in the ear. Senor Becerra, the mouth, the concertos a lo que ha dicho. You can't tell me that the Jesuits in Bizka don't understand the Umibai or the Busan. You see, we were there at 120 years ago, before 119 Podemos was founded, so I understood the word adanism with the President: that to think oneself first is history, and that there is nothing before it. On what reduces – Mr Otero has also commented – protection through instruments of spatial planning, I deny the largest. It is a very legally studied issue on the part of the Government, and that is not true. There are legal studies, in short, much deeper than the analyses that could be made at political level by me, you, Mr Otero or Mr Becerra. Mr. Otero, all I say is that there are only four signatures in the middle and only three of them you thank a predisposition at least that sign. That's what I'm doing. It's not very elegant. That's what I'm doing. And then you've got an selective for Christ's sake, right? Foxes, you've mentioned cementers. And he had told her the channel mentioned was made by the Euscharity plan in the neighborhood, 16 years ago. And that stone must also be put in the responsibility bag, it won't be the weightiest, but it's your responsibility. So don't tag the others. Then you said that when you were in the Umibai, it belonged to all Ushadai. You mentioned the garrison, like the other rubus. That puntito-demagogue seems quite pathetic to me, very pathetic: "jetty," "people." There are towns, and that's where we have to be, these speechs. Zer gehiago komentatu? You comment on the feasibility of the trial. Maybe they have better information than I do. You may not get ahead, and I have information close to the subject. Más insists. El theme de participion se ha commentado aquaí. Seis años de particiciaón! Se inició hace dos Legislatures. You're using the word "jeert" for Losúlmots arsos, a fanta a the peopera, that's what you use. And I know the model of sharing with you, and I'm not going to the Gipu, we always mention that you've been in the government for four years. I'm a binary and I know him closely. and when there is no dispute on your own grounds, you go forward and do not look on it. And I know that very well with a crude, self-possession and self-discipline point. But if there is a little controversy in your principles, if a man lifts his hand up and asks from doubt what he may say, then you begin a mailbox. And that's not a split-up, that's a cracker, an unreproached buzzer. And there you go. I know him in my country, the guitars, I suppose he has been known and suffered, this paralysis, for so many years. So the responsibility, when there's a coalition, is the vote, but there's responsibility, and you've got the fat bag and that little stone behind you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u55	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. He shouldn't have a word from the popular Basque Group. So, since the discussion has ended, we will vote together with Podemos, Euskal Socialists, EHG, and Eternians, the intermediate corrections signed by the Teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the companies, 72; the given votes, 75; the supporters 75; the opponents are 0,0; white; 0; abstentions; 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-22.u56	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was twelve o'clock in the afternoon and fifty-five.
