ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u0	Good morning, everyone. I'll start the whole meeting. First, I warn you, the sixth point has been left for another. First point in theme list: "Motion, introduced together by Jule Bollain Urbieta, the parliamentary members of the Podemos, concerning the form of tribute. Discipline and final resolution. The proposer's turn. Mr. Bollain, your word is to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, good morning, everyone. Today we are debating a motion by our group, Elkarrekin Podemos, to agree on a Basque fiscal agenda among all political parties, and today, given the pact of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party with the People's Party, we believe that this is a necessity, and an urgent need. But the saddest thing is that, faced with this inescapable need for any leftist or progressive person, we will hear excuses for not wanting to enter the debate. Today we will listen to the Socialist Party of Euskadi that it does not touch today, rather to leave it for another moment. We're discussing Podemos's motion with each other to agree with a book of euskaka...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u2	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u3	And today, considering the agreement between EAJ and PSE and PP, this is necessary. But the sadst thing is that anyone who's a progressist would admit that we'll only listen to excuses for not discussing today. Today the parties that should have brought this debate to this House, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party, are going to try to reject it, because they know that there is no decent way to defend the dispatch pact that they have reached with the People's Party. Today, those who, like the Socialist Party, were saying in their electoral programme that fiscal reform would never again take place without this Parliament speaking, are going to try to reject the debate, because the result of the fiscal pact with the People's Party is shameful, both in form and substance. And yet, this debate is relevant. It is not acceptable to put forward any kind of delaying manoeuvre in that debate, when this very week has been about to record policy changes in the General Boards of Álava. That debate is relevant here, in this House, it is relevant today, and, in the face of the haste and tweaks of the PNV, the PSE and the People's Party, these contents are adequate. Today, those who defend that better debate fiscal policy within a few months, when it is no longer news, say so simply because they want the famous photo of the signing of the pact not to remain fresh in the memory of Basque citizens. Because today, if anything is going to be this debate, it is the day of memory, the memory of what they have said and what others have said in this Parliament. The day they see what they're interested in today, shut up. Today is the day to start putting black on white the flagrant and bloody inconsistencies of one and the other, and that also has a name: political cynicism. The cynicism of "everything's good," the cynicism of "where I said, I say Diego." There's a very Spanish saying that says "Honey mouths and hiel hands." Our proposal, which we are bringing to this Parliament and which will be voted on today, is very simple and has three main ideas. The first is that this Parliament is competent to talk about taxation. This is in accordance with the Statute of Gernika (section 41.2); it is in accordance with section 3 of the Economic Concert Act; it is in accordance with section 14.3 of the Historical Territories Act. The second, that today in Euskadi there is an unjust fiscal policy and not in accord with the welfare state that citizens demand, and progressive forces cannot remain silent before it, must turn around. And the third is that these progressive forces are the majority, and therefore only political will is needed to agree on it. How does our proposal come to fruition? One, to converge with Europe, to converge in fiscal pressure with the average of the 28 countries of the European Union. And that means asking for taxes to be paid in Euskadi as they are paid in most of Europe's countries, no more or no less. Two, let those taxes pay them especially those who have the most. Those who have more than five times the average estate pay more. Those who live on rent, rent flats or the interests of their assets pay the same taxes as any worker with a payroll. Three, that large companies with profits also pay taxes. That they pay exactly the same taxes as any big company in Europe, no more or less. And that, gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party, does not mean losing any competitiveness. Four, fight tax fraud, and really do it, setting concrete and quantifiable targets. And these four questions so simple, so common sense, that I would sign any citizen of Euskadi, are the ones we propose, and the ones we propose because right now in Euskadi they are not being fulfilled. Today, in 2017, in this country exactly the opposite happens. It happens that more taxes are paid by people who charge a payroll than a large company for their profits or a renter. And this is not only radically true, but above all it is radically unjust. Look, I'm gonna be honest. I do not expect much from the Basque Nationalist Party in this matter, I do not expect it to join these proposals, but from the Socialist Party I expect just the opposite. Mrs. Mendia, Mrs. Castelo, I'll ask you three questions to see what you answer, with a yes or a no. They are simple, they are clear, to see if they have the courage to answer them. Does the PSE believe that this Parliament is competent for this debate? Does the PSE believe that taxation in Euskadi is profoundly unfair to workers? Is the PSE prepared to reach an agreement with the progressive forces in the face of this injustice? Answer me, really, no excuses. Answer me, yes or no. If your answer is yes, support this motion, prove it with facts. Prove to all those people who voted for them a year ago that they were telling the truth on their election program. Prove to the citizenry that the word of a socialist has value. Prove they're on the bottom side, not the top side. Be brave and plant in front of the employer, Confebask, the right and the People's Party. Jaume Perich ironically explained that our tax systems are a wonder, because the one who has the most pays the most, and the one who has the least also pays the most. And in Euskadi, with the pacts of the PNV and the PES with the People's Party, we go on an even worse path; a path in which the one who has less pays almost everything, and the one who has more and barely pays on it is made tax cuts. The reality is that today in this House they give the numbers. They are to make a very different fiscal agenda from that which the PP wants to impose with the help of the PNV and the PSE. In Euskadi today it is possible to provide us with a sufficient, equitable, efficient and redistributive tax system of wealth; a tax system that is able to encourage economic activity and the creation of quality jobs, which supports the energy transition and promotes equality between men and women. That is possible, and above all it is necessary. It is necessary because the structural competitiveness of our companies, gentlemen of the PNV, is not achieved by making them pay no taxes. It is achieved when in the territory there are modern and cohesive economic and social structures, trained people, and less inequality. And that's what a good tax policy is for. A tax system that, as I said before, is converging with Europe. Because convergence with Europe is not an option, it is a reality that will affect us sooner than later. Hence the importance of adapting in time and without overburdens, before the demands of Europe force us to make the debates fast and running. What a different reality than that of the most advanced countries compared to the adjustments agreed between the PNV, the PSE and the PP. The Basque Government itself has repeatedly acknowledged that we are starting from a fiscal model with a much less progressive and less impact on the economy than the models in Europe, and with the reduction of taxes on the employers imposed by the People's Party, our model of fiscal policy becomes even more regressive, leaving us further away from Europe. It is an address, that of that tax reduction, which is not good for Euskadi or our economy, and which is not the one demanded by Basque citizenship. Let me make a small comparison with the European Union average: while the fiscal pressure in Euskadi is 31.4 % of GDP, the European average is 38.7 % of GDP. As you hear: 7.3 percentage points separate us from the European average. Company tax: average pressure in Europe, 2.6; average pressure in Euskadi, 1.7 (0.9 percentage points less). 0,9! And do you really want to further lower the tax burden on businesses? The Basque Nationalist Party presumes to have its own model, but let's not be fooled, that's not true. The PNV has handed over Euskadi's economic policy to the People's Party. Today the PNV, in its desire to remain in power at all costs, has allowed fiscal policy, the most important policy that has a government in its hands, to be dictated by the People's Party, the party furthest away from the will of Basque citizens. The PNV presumes to have its own model, but does not hang, because it is being seen as a calc of the People's Party. Look, Mr Azpiazu has spent the whole year saying that in Euskadi the fiscal pressure of large companies is lower than that of the state, and today Mr Azpiazu is making the Swedish to drain the lump of the piece of frog that has swallowed up with this pact with the People's Party. And Swedish could already be done, yes, but to converge with Europe in taxation. When the PSE was in opposition, it used to resort to Mr Ignacio Zubiri's opinion, and it quoted him over and over again, and it did very well. Well, look, do you know what Euskadi's leading expert on these issues says? I quote: "Most Basque companies pay a lower rate than in Spain. The effective type, which is the important one, is much smaller. Basque companies really have no right to complain about high taxes in relation to the state." This was said of corporate tax as Euskadi's greatest tax expert. Well, what have the PNV and the PES done? Deal with the right, with the employer, with the People's Party, an even greater discount for these big companies. And this is simply unacceptable. But do you know how much that same expert appreciates the tax reduction of these parties to the employer? In 100 euros per capita. There's nothing! One hundred euros for each Basque taxpayer. That is the Christmas gift that the PNV and the PP have made to a employer who already paid less taxes in Euskadi than he owed. 100 euro employers eginiko beherapen fiskala biztanleko, 100 eurotan baloratu da. Eta hau da EAJk eta Partidodu Popularrak patronalari egin dioten Gabonetako oparia. And in the face of this, there is one reality: this is only possible because the PSE wants to, because the PSE supports them. If the PSE wanted it today, the employer would pay the taxes it has to pay. If the PSE wanted, the renters would pay no less taxes than the Basque workers. If the PSE wanted, today Euskadi would look more like Europe and less like Esperanza Aguirre's Madrid. And today the question is whether the PSE really wants that, whether the PSE is really going to give more value to its agreements with the right rather than trying to agree with the left on a tax reform. Whether or not the PSE, now the government, refers to Mr Ignacio Zubiri. Mrs Mendia, Mrs Castelo, this question is not asked by Elkarrekin Podemos. I'm from Eibar, and there's a lot of good people voting for them. And, you know, the other day a marriage, socialist militants all their lives, stopped me on the street and they told me that they were ashamed that their party was making a pact with the right. Mrs Mendia, Mrs Castelo, think if you really think that Eibar marriage, socialist activists of all life, deserves today that you betray the electoral program with which you ran for election and that they voted; if you really are going to be necessary accomplices of that downsizing to the employer, if really a socialist is going to look the other way in the face of a radically unfair taxation like today's one in Euskadi. If you are not going to do so, vote in favour of this motion. They do not defraud their voters, they do not defraud their militants, they do not defraud the progressive majority of this country by agreeing with the right and the employer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u4	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. It's the turn of the teams that's running the corrections. The EH Team's turn. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours. [[Berber]] Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u5	Thank you, ma'am. Today, again, we have the tax policy to discuss. To-day Podemos, together with us, has brought back the star we've had on the table. And I think sometimes we don't realize the importance of that subject. If this subject is once more in this legislature, it is on the table because the policy of the tax is very important. It's very important, not only because the politics themselves are important, but because the policy of the tax acts directly in the life of our society. Because fiscal policy is a fundamental issue in the lives of the citizens of our country, and while some are committed to making fiscal policy look complicated, it's a distant issue, it's something that people on foot won't understand, the reality is that it's so important that people on foot know, understand, and even replicate it. Because that is what a modern democratic society is all about. With the proposal proposed by Mr. Bollain today and with him who has it, it is plain that we have on our table the agreement which PNV, PSE, and PP, recently written or signed, will never be called by the prosecutor, because this is not for me a reform, but for some very simple changes, and by PSE, as Pášos fiascals, as he said in Gipuzia. So every one will know what he does, but the last step he's taken in the policy of taxes won't do him any favor to the money we need to raise public politics. And this is not something new that EH Bildu says here today. We have said this on different occasions, and every time we bring up the issue of fiscal policy we say so. What you can't do is do a fiscal policy, which was above one day in a way and was the best you could get (the corporation tax at 28, and to the hemeroteca I refer, was the best possible agreement in the words of different members of the PNV and the Socialist Party), and fifteen days later, by the art of birlibirloque, the best option was to lower it to 24 %. Well, there's everyone with their consistency and their debts to those they sign with. But the reality is that this tax reform is going to follow the path of a 2013 tax counter-reform, which has already proved to be unsuccessful, no matter how many people want to make us see otherwise. A tax counter-reform that in two years, 2015 and 2016, failed to meet its own revenue forecasts by more than EUR 1 billion. It was so good, so good, that the collection forecasts were met, or not, as always, in the IRPF, but in the company tax they did not meet even 40 % of the forecasts. That's what we had since 2013, and what we've done recently won't be worth any more. And this state of attorney, who is by no means a form of tax, now leaves the matter open to the tax policy. It's unlocked. Why? Very simple: because the signatures themselves have left it open, because PP said that he wants to touch the PFHE for 2020, so we'll see what's going to happen in 2018. And that's what we have on the table and that's got a direction to it, and that's not the right direction we think it is. It is, therefore, in all this, as we believe, essential, that the matter of knowledge, or the matter, is open, to the knowledge of the common disposition. We think parlamentary groups must here explain our position in a monographic that will come. But we, the Basque People from the United States, have always said that. Not made a monographicographic, accept some resolutions, enter the folder and get to the next one. No way. That's not what the Basque Country wants. The Basque Country is on the table, and I said in my first part, that we must meet with society, that society must know them, and that we must hear society; so that we think the public controversy ought to be encouraged by the policy of taxes, and consequently must hear the proposals which civil society possesses. Because we want to agree on a public debate between all of us to make a new model of fiscal policy that truly responds to the needs of Basque citizens, and not that it is at the service of large companies, of those who have the most, which is ultimately what we are being put on the table, because they are the only ones who applaud the measures taken. We believe that by respecting the competences of each stage, respecting the limits of each one and respecting the frameworks of territorial and institutional debate, this Parliament must start once and for all an inclusive debate, a debate in which trade union agents, business agents, political agents, social actors come together, so that this country does not stop, so that this country does not continue in that valley which seems to be waiting and waiting to see them come. And that's what we want and that's our proposition. We believe that we must speak honestly about the policy of the tax, that we must all place the point of view that every one has on the table, the proposition, whatever it may be, and then open it up with it. Open the discussion. Listen. Listen. It's not too bad to hear. And listen to the unions, hear the people in the college world studying around the tax policy and so on. I do not know how to make any agreement between hearing and all of them, but to agree to some measures, and then apply those which it is necessary to apply. But, really, let's make a good project and look at it later on. What we can't do is be holding back. Because that's what's been done. Four changes have been made to satisfy both of the signatories, without any kind of global vision. Because there can be no global vision when fifteen days before it was best to stay in a tax of equities, and fifteen days later we turn everything around and it's over. That's not a global vision, that's not a direction, that's not a fiscal strategy. It's not. It's not. That is to put fiscal policy under other interests, under other interests. Because in addition – and I think I am going to say this today too, because if I do not – of fiscal policy I, who have been in this Parliament for a few years now, have listened actively and passively to the fact that in this Parliament I did not touch, that in this Parliament we could not mix, and even could not talk, in the budgetary negotiations, about fiscal policy, because that is the responsibility of another administration, it is the responsibility of others. Here it is that this year is not only that we are talking, Mr Damborenea, as you well know, but that it is the central axis of the negotiation. In other words, fiscal policy has changed in this country solely because it has a budget agreement with another institution. And that's not about fiscal policy, and that's not about where fiscal policy wants to go. And, therefore – since Euskal Herria Bildu we put on the table – let us speak, let us clarify, everyone who says what he wants without ties of "I have to deal with him, I have to deal with the other". Let us make every political group our proposals, and let us listen. Let us listen, as I said, to the unions, to the academic world, which has a lot to contribute to this, and from there let us do fiscal policy. But let's not do fiscal policy in the bush, which is what you have done.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Passing in the district of teams that don't run, representing the Basque Potion Group. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u7	Thank you very much, Madam President. "This Parliament has the capacity to debate this..." Look, I don't know what we're doing! But it is not the first time, nor the second, nor the third, nor the fourth, nor the fifth, nor the tenth, nor the twentieth that at least I have had to go out to this rostrum to talk about fiscal policy in this Parliament, in this legislature and in the previous one. Of course you can talk. We're doing it, on his own initiative. They say, "They're going to make excuses not to argue." We have never made an excuse not to argue. We have no problem arguing with anyone. Now, this plenary is an excuse, this point is an excuse. This point is an excuse not to discuss fiscal policy: this point is an excuse to criticize the fiscal pact we have reached. It is not to discuss fiscal policy, it is to criticize the fiscal pact. Yes, yes! That is what you have done, Mr Bollain, as a whole. But recognize me that there is at least one contradiction in your intervention. He also told us: "Some people are going to say that it is better to discuss this in a few months' time." Listen, let's see, you and Bildu asked ten days ago to hold a full monograph on this topic going on in February. We have not been the ones who have no problem discussing this in December, in February, in March, in April, in May, in June and in July. Because debate is very good, and to make clear the differences between one group and another is very good, but we, in the end, arrived at some point, we have had enough to discuss and what we want is to do things that solve and improve the quality of life of people, which is something that at least you do not care very much about, because you worry more about the debate, show your differences, than do things. You tell us that you have to pay more who wins the most. These are obvious... Look, even in the Constitution of 78, it's collected. I mean, they're asking us what the tax already has to be. The fact is that what has just come to this Parliament for the first time, or to the institutions for the first time, does not mean that there have been no taxes and a tax system in this country, but for more than thirty years now, listen! For over thirty years. And I'm gonna tell you one thing. You tell us that the least-winner pays for almost everything. Well, to let you know, because the system we have is quite progressive, the one that makes little money zero. In this country, the one who earns little pays zero. It doesn't pay almost everything, it pays zero. Pays zero in the IRPF. The one who earns a little more pays a little, and the ones who earn the most are the ones who pay the most. Now, you will have to agree with me that we are not going to agree, neither with you nor with Bildu, never in that it is very good to say that the one who wins the most has to pay more, but then you take care to make everyone who wins the most, and then it turns out that there is no one, of those who wins the most, who pays the most. And then I'll give you an example that we had in this country not so long ago. Then he talks to me about equality between men and women in the matter of taxation, and I don't know... I don't know what tax women pay more, or men, than men and women. I just don't know. But when the issue of equality is taken to the extreme of raising it everywhere... If you are able to tell me what tax that inequality is, I assure you that we are willing to correct it. And, with the forgiveness of the tax experts and the experts... There's a lot of expert loose around here. Of course, you tell us that I don't know what expert said that Basque companies paid less than in the rest of Spain, and then Basque entrepreneurs, as they are idiots, say, "We want the regulations of Spain to apply to us." Well, if this is the expert you've got, that's fine. We'll never use it as an expert, okay? And, Mrs. Pinedo, you tell us, "The best deal possible was the one there was." All agreements are improveable, and this initial agreement was clearly improveable, and I believe that it has been substantially improved since the initial proposal. And we have very different approaches, of course we have very different approaches, and I have explained this to Mr Bollain. What do you propose in all the reforms? You do the cheap demagogy of saying, "Great fortunes have to pay more." Yeah, yeah, "Great fortunes have to pay more, big companies have to pay more," like they don't pay more. They pay more. In the case of companies, the most profitable pays more, be it large, small or medium, because this works like this. It's paid based on the benefit. Depending on the benefit. And, Mr Bollain, may you tell us that you have reduced the tax burden on companies, and that you have equated it to the fact that there has been a fall in corporate tax, when corporate tax has not been touched in recent years... And, of course, lowers the tax pressure... The fiscal pressure is measured on GDP, collection on GDP. Of course, companies fall, thousands of companies have closed, almost all of them have lost money, collection falls, and says, "Wow! Tax pressure has been lowered, so taxes have been lowered." A little more coherence. Tell that expert to sometimes lower the tax pressure because the collection has fallen, because businesses and employment have fallen, without touching taxes, even raising taxes, which is what was done three years ago in this country, to see if we know a little bit. Taxes were raised in this country three years ago. Yes, Mr. Bollain, yes. They're up. I know you weren't, but that's how you got up. And I'm going to set an example to Mrs Pinedo, because not so many years ago there was a deputy general of the Basque Nationalist Party to whom the social democrat vein entered this one that occasionally enters some, and he said "The sicavs, the rich, pay very little, 1%; we're going to make them pay more, we're going to go up to 20%". And how much do we collect? Zero. Yeah, zero. They're all gone. I remember even Kutxabank opened an office in Castro, just in case. Zero. And what happened? "Come on, we'll drop the tax collection...! We have to raise taxes, the IRPF." Yes, to those you say not so, in the end we always get taxes on them. On account of the fact that we're going to charge a lot more of the richest... Well, it turns out we get zero from the richest. But it looked great, huh! That deputy general looked really good. Hey, you were applauding him with your ears, moving him right away to Gipuzkoa, to Álava and everywhere, everywhere. And you tell us, "You have to know where you want to go in fiscal policy." Look, we have this very clearly: fiscal policy has to be used to guarantee enough income to pay the welfare state that we have given ourselves, that every year there is an increase in spending. But fiscal policy has to be used to create stable and quality jobs, and it has to be used for people to have more money (they), disposable income; not to take it away from the citizens and then the Administration to distribute it. We have that very clearly: we prefer that people have their money in their pockets, rather than you take it away from them and then distribute it in those ways. And, what do you want me to say, I think to the initial proposal... I do not know if it has become clear that we are going to vote against – I say, in case I had forgotten to say so – we are going to vote against your initial proposal, and we are going to vote against your compromise. And if, in addition to the monographic plenary session, you want to have us in a special committee here every month talking about fair proposals that come to everyone's attention, I will tell you that we, as our fiscal policy is very clear, will ensure that measures are adopted at the general meetings. Now there is already that of societies; we will try to make sure that in an equitable time, the shorter the better, the IRPF will also be modified by lowering. Going down and benefiting those people who worry so much, who are the middle classes and who are the ones who ultimately pay the taxes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u8	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u9	Mr. Bollain, given the tone of your speech, I'm going to listen to what my daughter tells me when she ever sees me on videos through the web, and it's, "Love, you calm down. If you do it all right, you don't have to get any more upset," do you? Man, the truth is I'm going to have a hard time listening to you today, but I've dropped some issues before I start making the intervention, so that you realize the political cynicism and incoherence with which you work. I'll tell you, this you already know is a motion that derives from an inquiry, you don't need to be told, do you? Well, I'm telling you, on page 75 of the minutes of that session it says, "I'd tell you something about the Socialist Party, but, truth be told, they've been irrelevant in this negotiation, so let's not waste time with them." For something must have happened to you from that plenary until today, because you have devoted all your speech to us. You know perfectly well why, don't you?, because we've been in conversations this week. And I am going to start my speech by stating something that the Socialists have made clear and that I do not know if you have it, and that is that we know what we want to discuss about taxation: to find the tools that justly and effectively guarantee public services. That is our goal, the extension of social rights and the enhancement of economic activity that generates quality employment. As clearly as we have for what Elkarrekin wants We can, of course not going along these lines, but to make a discussion – and you have done it here and you have made it clear – that you try to emphasize differences, which exist to a much lesser extent than you intend to amplify today in this rostrum. But there is something that I have not been able to clarify, and you know it, and that I have asked directly to you, and that is why, on the same day that you register making a full monograph to set the criteria for a future tax reform, you go with another role to the register to present this motion, on which you already set those criteria. And even though I gave him the opportunity on several occasions this week to explain it to me, because he didn't, he didn't. And I will use your own words, which you used in the interpellation of the full past, when you addressed Mr. Azpiazu and said to him, "Think badly and you will be right." For that evil thought leads me to believe that you do so because you have to continue to find excuses (they are not the excuses that the Socialist Party finds, but you) to make a decision, a legitimate decision on the other hand, that you do not want to agree on the budgets, although from the government and from the parties that we support it we told them that we could attend to their reasons. And I must recognize him, and that is true, that he has content in his motion that we share. Because we share that we have to go to a homogeneous tax pressure with Europe; but, although in the question that gives rise to this motion you were mixing tax pressure with tax rates, the truth is that in Basquedi we have historically had a higher tax pressure than in the rest of Spain. And we share, just as you do – even today, the truth, I don't have it so clear – going towards a progressive convergence in the corporate tax with Europe. And I imagine that you are not unfamiliar, although I have already seen that as a reading totem you only have one person (which, by the way, is a university professor, and there are many), that the nominal type of convergence of corporate tax at European level is 22%. Because this is what you are asking us, to converge towards that nominal type. We also logically share that there is a tax of great fortunes, and there is, and I can't believe you don't know. It's called a property tax. Nor do I want to believe that the only effort you have in this area is a name change of what is called the tax, because, in fact, then it is very far from us, that what interests us is to focus on those who can most contribute more. And it is true, and I believe that we share this not only with you, but with the rest of the groups in this House, that we want to combat tax fraud. Now, that is, not to eradicate it by 50%, which is what you set as a target, but we believe that there does not have to be a single euro that escapes through the drain without paying what it owes. And see if we want it, that this report that has made that totem that you have in mind can now use it because there was a socialist initiative that was achieved because it never scared us to agree, neither in government nor in opposition – they could already take example others – and in a budget agreement in the previous legislature we introduced an explicit departure for that report to be made. And not only that, but also that in the last reform, in addition to talking about types, deductions, deductions and different tax figures, we have succeeded in creating an inter-institutional commission to combat fraud, which appears in this House year after year and which, since its inception, implements a comprehensive and unique plan for the three historical territories in the fight against fraud, agreeing, for example, measures to obtain more and better information from the accounts of Basque taxpayers to avoid their concealment (which they explained to us a little in committee), or for the telematic control and immediate invoicing of large companies. And you have no doubt that you intend to follow the Socialist Party in that line, and we would sincerely like to agree on this path with you and the rest of the groups. It is also true that we share the need for green taxation, and we also share that the gender perspective is integrated, but not only in fiscal policy, but in all policies that are deployed from a government. So, do not talk to me about dilatory manoeuvres or political cynicism, because, of course, you would have to have a little more memory and it would have to have been revised that here, as in December 2016, before a proposal by EH Bildu, the Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group we tabled an amendment in which we proposed to you to make a full monograph on taxation in order to agree here on the criteria for future tax reform. At that time you did not intervene, Mr Becerra intervened, and, in addition to other questions he said, he says (because they voted against, I will remind you, the full monograph then was not worth: "You should be the most interested and the most interested in having a serious and more silent debate in this House than the one that can be given in a plenary". Well, come on, February 2017, which is when this was said by Elkarrekin We can, to the full of past control, in which your spokesman told Mr Lehendakari that one of the initiatives we were going to take in tax matters was a full monographic, as if it were something new, because it had already been proposed in this House in February and you had rejected it. And they had rejected it because, logically, in February it was not an issue of interest. They are now interested, in December, as they were interested last year in making a fiscal proposal to be able to dress and justify why you did not reach a budgetary agreement. And we're on the same page as we were last year. And then you have put forward a proposal that has nothing to do with the criteria for European harmonisation presented here for one of the figures. So, I don't know where his proposals are, I don't know who they've been discussed with, and, more importantly, I don't know who they've been agreed with. Because this is the bottom of the debate. Because, as much as you bring us this motion now and in two months we have a full monograph here, which we are going to have, you still have the same problem: you do not want to agree, you do not want to get wet. They had decided that they wanted to simulate a budget negotiation, but that they would not agree. You have other issues to clarify before, and you know it, and you're making excuses not to. And in that tumult of excuses what you have done is to come out here to the rostrum to accuse the socialists, for, well, I don't know, of the evils of the world. This is really your excuse. What you did not want in February, you want now, in December, when you know you no longer have room for manoeuvre. And you've set how long that full monograph must be, two months, i.e., I'm not going to dilate anything. When that matter is brought forward, the Socialists will vote and we will have a full monograph and debate on taxation. You have two budgetary debates here, and in both of you, when the project was already under way, you have addressed the media and not this House. And they have done it twice; then, the first I can think that it is, well, for a topic of newcomers who do not know very well how the topic works; the second already, the truth, however well I want to think of you, cannot be. You have addressed the press to tell how you can get more revenue and do some calculations... I don't know how many millions! I mean, the millions come out of you with an easy... Now, that does, without a prior analysis of how every tax, every type, every deduction, every deduction... And when others do, when we also tell them that we have reached an agreement and in that agreement there are a number of amendments, because you say you don't know it, and you keep pulling a big brush, because you don't want to understand the tax agreement that has been achieved, basically because you know perfectly well that what you say is not true. We Socialists are certainly interested in another way. We are interested in what is actually paid and collected. Because what interests us, Mr Bollain, is the sufficiency of resources and the guarantee of public services, and that is something that you are not going to move us, no matter how much you come out to this rostrum by shouting or saying all the barbarities that occur to you. We are not going to avoid the debate. They've asked for the full monograph and we'll do it. But I remind you that you missed the opportunity in February. He knows that this is a fictitious debate, that it is a cynical debate, and that the only thing they are getting with it – I also told him personally and I repeat it now – is to have the excuse to justify the no to the budgets. Finally, I would like to say the following to you, and you should take this into account: in Euskadi, thanks to the Socialist Party, all your institutions will have sufficient budgets and resources to guarantee public services and encourage economic activity, because the Socialists, Mr Bollain, are going to make it possible. And don't forget that what I'm telling you is to consolidate a scenario of political and institutional stability, and that stability favors economic progress and social cohesion. That is why, Mr Bollain, the Socialist Party decided a year ago to join the Basque Government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u11	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, President, chief officers. Good morning, everyone. Bollain jauna, "From the PNV I don't expect much, from the progressives I do." Adituak aipatu dituzu. Nik you have to... I think it's good (progressive, conservative...), I think it's good to run away from stereotypes in all areas of life, and in politics as well. And I think it's also good to run away from the pantheon of the gods, to hate people. Because the world is indeed very broad, the various professional fields are very broad, and there are many experts and experts, and I do not think it is very positive to be continually deitying and contributing to that pantheon of the gods. You spoke at the beginning of your speech that those who had to bring the debate here today will reject the debate. Today is the day of memory, and they have already remembered it. [[He showed us a paper.]] Gogoratu said aurten bertan, otsailean, hau izan zela prentsan agertu zen titulara: "EH Bildu, Podemos y PP block the celebration of a full monograph on taxation", aurten. Zuek blokeatu zenuten, zuek. We, the Jeltarian Party and the Social Party Socialists, brought a definite proposal here and two points were included. One, the US legislature thinks it's necessary to maintain a just, progressive system of taxation, and enough. It is necessary for this to promote politics and financially, in the service of growth and of solidarity, by encouraging the prosecutional regulations necessary from the Eukasaga coordination, to promote economic activity, innovation, and employment, such as to maintain essential public and social services." And the second point: "The United States of the United States, before any change of tax is accepted, will make a monographic meeting on the prosecution of the county. The purpose is to evaluate, to orient and unite the political policy of the whole of Euskamia Erhigo." You refused, you blocked him, and he didn't. We brought him here. Mrs. Pindo, let's go. "Eso no es un rumbo, eso no una strategy; I'll say yes, that's "un rumbo," or "una strategy," and I've read it in February, because in December we've registered our full correction, we've agreed on this and that's what we're talking about, because the government program of this joke says: "Rumbo y Strategy," Mrs. Pindo, "Rumbo y Strategy." 52. The commitment, the tax and financial policy, to the service of growth and solidarity. The first initiative, the establishment of the Cerga Condination Organs necessary in tax regulations, on the one hand, to promote economic activity, innovation, and employment, and on the other to protect social policy and public services. Second initiative: Before any change of taxation can be accepted, the monographic meeting of the whole system of the tax, evaluates the tax policy of Euscal Autonomy, oriented and harmonized. Road map, strategy, programme of government, proposed in Parliament rejected by you and by you. For you and for you. Otherwise, the road map, the strategy, would have been completed. But here we go to what you are continually putting us on the table, and there is no one to clarify. There's no one to clear up. You do not have a road map or strategy. First, you refused here in February to discuss the system of taxing a single-matter meeting. Second, you're registered a month ago that a month ago, a month ago, a month ago, a month's demand for the two of us to make a whole meeting with one subject, let's discuss it. It's granted, the US accepts, it's operational. Next, Podemos proposes a motion to discuss the particular matters together. Because it's not a theoretical frame to define the argument, no, no, no. You plan concrete propositions in your enterprise: the progressive action of the capital and the tribute of the savings; the establishment of a tax upon wealth and great property, and the possession of an inheritance, if they are five times greater than the inheritance of the Euscadian capital. You make concrete proposals. And we thought when the motion came: "Egh Collect will be surprised at the Podemos together. They agree to a single meeting and bring a discussion here in 15 days. What's the point? Well, we're already surprised when we see the total correction. At the first point you ask that what you refused in February should be done. Okay, that's it. And in the second, what are you asking for and what you signed today in the middle line correction? I'll tell you what I've done to make a chromanogram, but I don't know what they want. I think they always want to keep it on the schedule without reaching anything. What you plan is to discuss today, and to agree, as I have read, to certain particular enterprises and certain propositions. To make a single pleno monographic theme and accept some resolution proposals, The legislative will allow certain specific contributions of the resolution. A committee of experts will be formed next, a committee of experts. The collect gave him six months' work. I calculated it and, more or less, work would end in August or September. I saw today that they've put it in three months in the middle of the track correction. But wait, listen, it's important, but, Mrs. Pindo, you'll have to listen before you do, because I don't understand: We'll hear afterwards what the experts say, and then we'll get the consequences out of what the experts say, and then we'll go back to the discussion. I'm telling you, in November, we'll be in December in 2018. Shall we get what the experts say, but if that doesn't agree with what this lawyer accepts? A ver, I don't know what your strategy is, your hoja de ruta. If you can explain to us... for in all this we have not even mentioned the great councils that are within reach of the proposal which he made. No, no, no. You plan, yes, and you say let us consider what will be agreed on in the year 2018. Then we don't understand anything. We don't understand anything. We are going to discuss today; they gave up a full monograph in February; in February we are going to make a full monograph; then immediately, followed, we are going to organize a committee of experts, which will last, I don't know, three months, six months...; then we are going to draw conclusions from the committee of experts; then we are going to make another full monograph to discuss the conclusions of the committee of experts... , all this throughout 2018. At some point we'll tell the boards to take into account what, today's, the February plenary, the plenary that I don't know when it's going to be, whether in November or December...? Because it is the general boards of the historical territories that will have to make the normative changes. But it's not just that. In addition, Elkarrekin We can always bring out the revenue debate, the tax debate, just coinciding with the presentation of the Basque Government's draft budgets. It's not the first time he's done it this year. It's not the first time! But we have been looking for your proposal, and I, Mr Bollain, would be grateful if you would send it to us. Because, as Alexia Castelo said, you were quantitating the revenues that would come from your reform by 1.250 million euros. That means they have to have concrete actions that we don't see. You give the press conference, you say in how long you would do, and you talk about frames, and about indefinitiveness, and that the aditus come, and I don't know what the conclusions are going to be. Concrete proposals, because I say that for that it has to be every tax perfectly defined, with types that go up, that go down, deductions, limits, bonuses, tax quotas... All that. Well, it always coincides. And I would say to you: if the big problem and one of the problems of the entire amendment for the 2018 budget was fiscal reform, listen, when do you want this to come into force? On what budget? Because they're going to be in 2018 all day with taxation on the agenda. Clarify it to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Passing on the answers, Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u13	Why have we brought this motion here? Because you have invented a tax reform that is not a tax reform but a budget agreement, and you have improvised it in such a way that even the general meetings have had to delay it. And that's also why, because of that improvisation, our road map has also changed, without more or more. And we have brought this debate to the Basque Parliament because we want this House to lead and decide this reform. I know that some always raise the voice to say that no, that you can't, that this is not the competent body... Well, that's good enough. Yes, this Parliament is the competent body. And there is no just society without fair taxation, and ours is not. It is not fair because we have a tax system that is fundamentally supported by payroll and indirect taxes, and that is unfair. It is a tax system in which capital income pays much less than labour income: a person who pays 1,500 euros a month pays 23% of the IRPF, and someone who earns 1 million euros in dividends pays less, 22%, and that is unfair. I will give just one example, too, because there are many voices that say that corporate tax prevents the economy from growing, that it reduces competitiveness for businesses, and that if businesses and entrepreneurs are reduced or eliminated, they will create more jobs. Well, this is radically false, this is not true. This is only the argument of those who do not want to pay what is theirs. Because corporate tax is a tax on corporate profit, on profit, and therefore does not increase production costs at all. It's only paid if there's benefits. All this was literally what Mr. Patxi López was saying in this very rostrum just four years ago. You know him, don't you? What has changed, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, to do the opposite of what you have been defending? Mr López must also be a demagogue, a radical populist and a dangerous anti-system that knows nothing about institutional stability. What has changed for Mrs Mendia, for Mr Totorika or for you, Mrs Castelo, to swallow your words about never going to lower the nominal corporate tax rate? What's changed? Its electoral programme literally said (page 62) that they had to converge with Europe and equalise the tax treatment of capital income with that of work. Is your election program no longer worth today, Mrs. Castelo? Why do you vote against what you literally say, literally, your election program? They're gonna let me make another date. It is another Basque politician, and, like Mr López, because it is not exactly my pleasure, but when someone is right you have to give it to him. It's Mr. Arzalluz. You know what he said? That "the word of a socialist leader lasts less than the expiration of a yogurt." And today you make good that statement of Mr Arzalluz. But let no one be wrong. The PSE will once again be able to betray its word and its programme, it will be able to defraud the Basques and Basques who voted for them thinking that they voted change, progressiveism or left, but these people have to know that there is hope, that in Euskadi we are the majority of those who want other policies, that we are the majority of those who do not want pacts with the Basque People's Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, that we are the majority of those who want to see a fair taxation, that it respects the workers of this country and that it will make those who have more pay, that it will not leave any respite to those who defraud taxes. And all that is possible, and it is possible despite the leadership of the Basque Socialist Party. There is a socialist militancy worthy and left-wing. What is not there is a socialist leadership (Berbotsa)... What there is not is a socialist leadership worthy of that militancy and of those voters. Look, Mrs Castelo, you have had more than ten months to comply with what you said – and I quote literally again – that "all these conclusions had to be brought to this Parliament and a monographic debate", as you and Mrs Gorospe said. And in these ten months they have done nothing except sign the reforms of the right as stone guests. There are pictures, Mrs. Castelo, that are worth more than a thousand words. And if there's going to be a full monograph it's thanks to us and us, not thanks to you or Mr. Damborenea. And we did not vote in favour of that amendment, Mrs Gorospe, because it was short, and it distorted and emptied the original GNP. If today there is any chance that it will derail its tax rebate to the employer it is thanks to us and us, because it has been seen that the PES prefers the tax reform of the PP rather than its own electoral program. And I end up addressing Mrs. Gorospe. Today you could even vote in favour of the first point of our motion, among other issues, because it is very similar to the first point of that amendment which you tabled in February. But neither do they. You prefer your pacts with the People's Party. Those pacts are the perfect excuse for the continuation of a neoliberal policy in Euskadi. The best thing is that it is the PP, the party less representative of this House, which has the least support of Basque citizenship, the most antisocial, which has the least interest in fighting tax fraud, which dictates the fiscal policy of this country. Bravo, Mrs. Gorospe. Bravo, gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party. That is their sovereignty, the same sovereignty as that of the PP. Well, keep it to yourself. And say what you want, Mrs Gorospe, call us demagogues and populists, invoke with the imposed voice of institutional stability to try to drain the bulk of their responsibility; but with their pacts with the People's Party the only thing that becomes stable is social injustice. They have no argument, no reason, and only cheap disqualifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u14	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Pindo, it's yours. Please be quiet. Mr. Doneza, please, silence! Please, silence!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u15	Thank you, ma'am. Beno, gaur berriz was in a ditugu eldi batzuk, erabil daitezkeenak edozein momentutan. As it is said in Spanish, the same goes for a broken one as for a loose one. "Resource sufficiency", when the next day we are saying "We would like to have more" (there is therefore no resource sufficiency). "Political stability"... What is political stability? Each one defines it the way he wants it! Some call political stability the calm girl. Well, everyone will know what they want. But, focusing on the issue that we believe is the most important, and that we thought it was the one that was going to be discussed today, in relation to fiscal policy, they talk about directions and strategies. Gorospe anderek esaten dit guk ez daukagula argi, haiek argi daukatela eta gobernu-programan idatzita daukatela. I don't give strategy eta runbo argia, sailburuak gauza bat esaten dunean, bi egunetara ahaldun nagusi batek kontrakoa esaten god, urringo egunean Confebaskek esaten god "Tss! Hey, stop the car!" I'm a gereo buelta ematen dugu. Don't I give runboa hor? Don't I give runboa hor? [[Berber]] Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, It's just, if you don't, you get some sleep. [[Barres]] There's no way! There can be no set course, when the economic adviser of this government says that we have to go on one side and the fiscal policy finally agreed has absolutely nothing to do with what the economic adviser says. There's no way when what was valid on the day... I don't remember exactly, because, as these little things that you have agreed on have taken me how many months to reach an agreement with the Socialist Party, because apparently you had some roughness there that you would clean up even within your own house, so we saw in the different interventions of the members of your party... The reality is that one day you said that it was the best thing (and not only did the Socialist Party say it; members of their party said it: "This is the best fiscal agreement"), and ten days later, ten days later!, where I said, I say Diego. Therefore, we are not going to get into those issues. And you bring back what I said here in February and what the press said. Of course, the headline of your press, clarro. Porque, claro, aquaí cada uno tiee el headliner que le gusta. You brought me to your press headline. And you know very well how EHG's proposal was at that moment, and what I gave you. And you said a monographicographic, but I put what I said today on the table, that we needed a special committee to listen to different voices. And that's what you didn't want. That's why we didn't make a deal, you know it. Because we from EH Bildu argued that we had to have a public debate, a debate to be heard, a debate that citizens could see, a debate in which citizens knew each other's positions; a debate, after all, of open doors, which we listened to all and all that the political parties say, what the unions say, for example, or what the academic world says. But, instead, you prefer those agreements in closed offices, where you strike the agreed fifteen days before, throw a little tipex at it, change it and present it as the promised Arcadia. That's what you prefer. And we have today put on the table, once again, the option of having an open debate a posteriori. And we put that in February. It was you who refused the open debate on fiscal policy. And when you tell me about the deadlines... I just don't know if I'm laughing or leaving for tomorrow. Bai, bai, bai! Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, He says, "What deadlines?". And you, what deadlines? What deadlines, when it is already being said that they have had to withdraw the proposal in order to resubmit another proposal to the general meetings? I mean... They withdraw a proposal to resubmit a proposal they have agreed with the People's Party. Now they are telling them that between one thing and another, they are probably not going to be able to, perhaps, enter the debate on all of this until March. When do you want the new company tax to come into force? How are you going to talk to the companies and tell them what is really going to be agreed at the end? Oh, sure! As we carry everything tied and well bound, as he said, there is no problem, is there? But is that the seriousness? That is to say, will it arrive on 1 January without a new company tax in force? Yes, or no? And you talk to me about deadlines and you talk to me about course and you talk to me about seriousness? Man, please! Be really clear about what they want, and they're not making any trouble at the last minute, fast and running around a table sitting or standing.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Basque Popular. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u17	Mr. Bollain, I didn't know your facet of a messenger, but it suits you. I was thinking about what campaign you'd be in, whether in the interior of Podemos or the same in Catalans, but, well, it looks good, it looks good. Now, you will acknowledge that, as I said at the beginning, this debate is the excuse. It's not to talk about fiscal policy, it's to criticize the fiscal pact. And, second, it's all left. It remains until the full monographic. They say we have to make a full monograph... This is your proposal, what you have signed, the two groups: a monographic debate on taxation to gather input, proposals from agents, experts...; once it is concluded, a special commission will be made for three months to analyse; once it is concluded, there will be another full monographic debate to agree on the conclusions..., which must be the ones you already tell us here that you are. Hey, we saved everything! Look, I've already voted against them today (of course!I do not know when it will be, if in April, May or June, with the conclusions that you are already telling us today. It just doesn't make any sense! So, what was this about criticizing the tax agreement we've reached? Okay, okay, okay. But, hey, from February onwards they criticize other things, or more things, don't they? The deal's gonna be good. And from this of the tax experts I'm going to tell you one thing. His party does not know; we do have a fiscal proposal, many years ago, a long time ago. We do. Our party does, it's public. In July we made it public too. We do not need to meet every six months with experts of any kind; we have met a long time ago. I don't know the need to be turning the bride around to never get anywhere. As I explained earlier, the difference is that we do want to change certain tax issues. And, listen, this is that corporate tax doesn't affect businesses, that companies don't come here or go there based on corporate tax, because companies pay based on profits... Let's see, why do you think that, of the more than three thousand companies that have left Catalonia, as a tax domicile here has not come any? Because I do know someone who wanted to come here, yes, and he sent it to me. And they said, "We thought we'd go there..." Because they also work here; moreover, what surprised me was that they had the tax domicile in Barcelona. And they said, "But we've done the numbers, and we're going to Madrid." And they wanted to come here, because they have all the offices here. They went to Madrid. Why do you think they've gone to Madrid? Why do you think all the world's technology companies are in Dublin? I don't know, I'm asking him! Are your experts able to explain to you why they're all going to Dublin? Why do foreign companies outside the European Union want to invest in Spain create a subsidiary in the Netherlands, their tax experts have explained this to them? Don't you know why it is? There is no need to be a tax expert to know why these things happen within the European Union. And it's obvious that taxation attracts or expels companies, but that's what everyone knows. The entrepreneurs know, but better than the experts, eh! Better than the experts. And I have to tell you one thing, because Mrs Pinedo was very concerned when it came into force. It will be approved more or less according to the deadlines of each general meeting. It shall have effect on 1 January. All companies already know what that corporate tax is going to be and what it is going to be, and therefore there will be no problem. And I think they are also happier than they were before, which is good for businesses, for entrepreneurs and for workers in this country.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u18	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u19	Well, you make it hard for me, honey. I'm gonna try, but I don't think I can do this. Look, what hurts Elkarrekin We can, and what hurts you especially, that you have to come out here on economic issues, is the influence the Socialist Party has on establishing progressive policies, while you sit comfortably on your seats. Do you know what that's called? Do you know his name? It is called having complexes, fear, lack of arguments, being demagogues, cynics, and in this case even lacking. You came out here today to insult. And you know why you insult? Because he didn't have any arguments. If you had had solid arguments, you would have come here more quietly. Since he didn't have them, he's clinging to everything he's been able to, mentioning, well, I don't even know what issues. Look, what you can't afford is for you to come here and tell me that if we're going to have a full monograph here, it's for you. You have to be cynical! Because in February 2017 you united your votes, you with EH Bildu and the People's Party, so that there would not be a full monograph. So there wouldn't be. So there wouldn't be. And you know why I didn't want it? Because in February you weren't interested in talking about taxation here. And he was not interested because his colleagues when they come out to intervene in a more calm way what they come to say is "to reassure Confebask and Mr.Larrañaga, because what is currently wasting the collection of corporation tax is the tax incentives and bonuses that are being applied to some companies, and the tax avoidance that can be done in transnational corporations. We do not consider a corporate tax increase necessary." That was said here in February, to deny our full monograph, Mr. Becerra, of Elkarrekin Podemos. But then I was not interested, because you did not need the excuse for the budgetary pact, which you did last year and which you are repeating now. So what I cannot allow is for you to come down here and, as you have no argument, I lack respect for me and the Socialist Party and their leadership. Because, you see, the Socialist Party has a clear and firm direction, and you know what taxation wants for and what stability in the institutions for. You have no address, and when you have it, you change it, and if you don't, you take it off. So, that's the thing. Will they have it tomorrow? Same! Let's see what's going on with you, because you have a season of changes that like to talk about what can happen or be in any other political formation. If you had a little more respect... And we also told him in the previous plenary session. We are not going to go into the issues that you have internally, but they love to air the issues of others. And look, since you mention to me that marriage of Eibar with which you say you spoke (which, by the way, is curious that you should talk to yourself, that you know him at home and justly, and do not talk to the secretary general who is in Eibar), it turns out that also around that day, the day he spoke to you, there was another fellow member of our Parliament, who is right behind me. And you know what he said? That what I felt ashamed of was Elkarrekin Podemos. And do you know why I was ashamed of that socialist marriage of Eibar of Elkarrekin Podemos? Because they had not been able to support a socialist president so as not to have at this time a president of the People's Party applying cuts. That, by the way, you then complain a lot here about some issues relating to workers, their situation and so on, but that is where the change could have been made. But, as I said, you have come here, the newcomers, the pure and the chaste, to sit from comfort. And to get you to have a tax agreement, Mr. Bollain, what you have to have is agreement. And you're afraid to remember. They're afraid to signify themselves. And you know why they're afraid? Because it has happened to you not only here; it has happened to you in Catalonia and the rest of Spain: because you have your roadmaps according to the press headlines. And the Socialist Party doesn't go into press headlines. And you have taken exclusive hold of the nominal rate because you do not want to talk about what is really important in corporate tax, which is the issue of deductions, compensations, and the rest of the instruments and elements that make up that tax. And see if that's so – and neither do other groups – that there was an economic spokesman for EH Bildu – by the way, to which I have a lot of appreciation, because he is a person who when he talks about what he talks about – who told us in February 2017, when you refused to talk about taxation (you want now, but you refused then), he said to us: "We're not talking about raising the guy" – they said that at general meetings, where you have fiscal competence – "we could even agree on that. We could lower it, we could lower the type if we really do what we do is that the whole set of deductions that this corporate tax has, which actually makes that 28% pay much less, 14%, 17%... For even that we could talk about, because for us" – at that time EH Bildu – "the most important thing is the deductions that corporation tax has". Patients are and here we wait for them, and we will see the collection of corporate tax. Because – and the lehendakari told him in the past to his spokesman – it is not only the nominal type: the effective type and the deductions. And we will see the collection, which is what the Socialist Party cares about. And we don't come out here to insult or disrespect. We've been giving him arguments. And if you want a tax deal, the first thing you need to know is that there has to be a deal. And in order to agree, in addition to yourself, you have to find other people to support you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u21	Mrs. Pindo. I don't know if you hear me, I suppose, even though your corporate language says something else. I didn't just bring the press headline, no, no, no, no, no, no. I showed you the full, complete, not just the headline. The Titulian brought it thus, which was true, but I also brought the transition to this discussion, and then what you said was so. How can it be that the dingingar, which we said, from the point of view of the EH meeting, should reach the budget in order to assume a consent in the great assemblies of the Arabs, in the circle where the tax is discussed, the other, which has several points of consent for the prosecution, is not to proclaim this political discussion, not to proclaim it there, in order to bring it to a different way and to the legislature, to demand that it should not be essential in the jurisdiction of the law, in order that it should be a matter of agreement. And we added: "We have chosen to agree, but we have not accepted the point of time, the rhythm, the arrangement of the Arban, and the locals are not to be united, and are not intelligible, so that we have not accepted the point which we set forth. The Banner, the global corrections and transscripts, we've brought everything here. Closed dispatches. Well, he's a real screamer, Pinedo. The same, the same offices you go to! The same. They enter through the same door, sit in the same chairs, around the same table, talk to the same people, and come out again through the same door. The same. Closed? I don't know if you think they're closed. Maybe you have others. And tempos. Our proposal will be introduced in 2018. Clear! It's gonna go in 2018. You haven't been capable of it, you haven't been able all the time, when it'd come in and put a concrete fecha in your Kronogram, when it began, when it began, when the consequences came, when the next law-maker... And as I said before, we will dispute, but we will accept what you say. That's it. Yes, and draw conclusions, another... What budget? You didn't hear about the coming budgets, what you heard today, what you had written today, the time you'd set up here, the EH Collect, not the Podemus, when you're in the next year's budget, you shouldn't make an argument, because if you were to continue your time, it wouldn't be in 2018 or maybe in 2019. That's reality. You mentioned improv, Mr. Bollain. There's no improvisation, no bullshit, we've always said it. We argued, the forums were admitted into the main councils. We said that changes like this need stability so that we can know what results are. He's been strong since 2014, he's currently in force. After that, after a few years of hard work, we'd find that the result of the collection was necessary, and that, in consequence, it was necessary to detect what was to be improved in order to be more efficient, as well as to the collections of money, and to create employment for the resurrection of the economy. Eta hori hori guztia egin da, denboretan eta prozesuetan, dagokien leku guztietan. Eta esan duzu: "Today you could vote, Mrs Gorospe, on the first point of our amendment, because it is practically the same as we proposed". The point is, that's agreed! You have brought a full monograph of taxation that is approved, that we are going to do it. There you go! Why are they repeating? The question is why you voted against it then. The question is, why did you vote against you? We are already clear that the full fiscal monograph will be held. Do you know what we should approve? So something like "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Parliament, and especially its parliamentary groups, to respect the agreements adopted and are not continually putting forward the same debates". Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH Collect and together the middle-direction signed by the Podemos teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 27; contrarys, 45; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u23	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Second point on the subject list: "And you shall gather together the words of the parliamentary band around the wall which [is] in the harbour of Bilbo. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Aguirre, representing the EHG team, has the word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u24	Ma'am, it's the head of the table, members of the legislature. I don't know how many of you will be at the harbor in Bilbo. It's really a beautiful experience. There are plenty of ways to see the harbor, though, of course, according to where you're located. If you look at it from the bottom, it's all giant. Containers subways and subways up. The boats are like block blocks of houses, long distances, broad piers, and it's so great that you have the sense of smallness. On the other hand, it's quite different to see from above, from the port manager's office, for instance. I don't know if it's 12 or 14th floors. It's a quiet, quiet office, far from the port you are. We see everything from there: That magic point that the river joins the sea, the crane... Quite a view, really. The boats, on the other hand, can be seen pretty small from up there, and small containments, hardly visible from above. And it's like a tetris when you see the harbor from there. All the pieces understand. He feels himself superior to the sense of greatness or of the sense of power. You feel too busy, boss, that's exactly what you're doing. I know that's the way it is, because we were there recently, a delegation from the Basque Country to talk to the Director, with the Doubtcha. He took us very well, very politely, actually. We went to ask him about the wall that is being built on the port of the Gu-geu. He showed us where the wall was from up there, and it was in front of the ferry. There was little Ferry, and the wall was, to be honest, very small. It didn't hurt his eyes when he saw it. It was just another piece in that giant teatris that is a port. But there is another way of seeing the harbour, a third way, which none of us can see in this case, I'm sure she has never lived before, can't imagine. We do not know how the port will be seen by a chink, and when you enter with fear of the police, we do not know what it will be like to go into another country to seek a better life when you have passed through all Europe. And we can't even imagine what it is to find at one point a massive wall of about four feet high, I imagine it will be impassable. And I don't know what he'll feel like when he can't stand up to a lot of stuff like that. But there is still another way to see the harbor in Bilbo, the fourth, which we all know is what it is. We all know from this legislature, the supreme delegation of the inhabitants of Bizkai, Araba, and Gipus, how it is that they have built the wall at the dock of Bilbo, though unfortunately they have not all had the same view. Some of you will see from the security point of view, as well as the harbour manager defends the wall. He compares it with an airport, saying that even at the airport there is no free movement, and that the wall does not separate from its native home, the wall is the same for all, whether it is from Albania or from the Upathi, he always uses this example. Not far from the Wall, but they load up their weapons in the Basque Country to take them to war places. If the weapons were for the UPath, would they say the same, or would we say? Baina badago, egon, harresiaren beasts ikuspegi bat, bosgarrena –eta hau azkena da–. A vision of the wall that gave us a brilliant and committed woman in this very Parliament, Helena Maleno Garzón. She asked us to be alert with the construction of the wall, because the walls, she told us, create an imaginary, make us believe that the outsider is a threat, because the walls encourage racism and xenophobia, because the walls in the long run have an impact on our coexistence. You know the words of Helena Maleno Garzón, whom Spain now accuses of a crime of trafficking in persons and illegal immigration, why, and for having made calls for help to the marine rescue teams to warn them of immigrants' pateras adrift or disappeared. From this Parliament, which invited her, which listened to her for her experience, for her commitment to people, I would like to send a sense of hug to this courageous woman, loyal to her convictions. Besarkada bero beat Helena Maleno Garzóni. We believe that this congressman has to ask himself what a story, what a tale, what a relato, when he builds a wall for the people. Some say it's safe, but in the name of security you criminals those who are trying to get into the harbor. And they're not criminals, they're just people looking for a better life. And besides, when we say safety, whose safety do we mean? Has anyone ever been in danger to build a light wall? Or is it built to protect the interest of the fair? And you will defend security when your weapons and bombs are charging within a few feet of the wall. Yemen, residents of Syria, do not deserve security? What message do we wish to send to the people of security or solidarity? We must confess this is not an easy matter. We know at this moment that those who are trying to leap the wall will not stay in the Basque Country, we know that they have been offered to them as well as they. It's complicated, but what's your plan for "Ya"? The road has been blocked by the emigrants, but they continue in their efforts. This year they've made almost 5,000 shifts, alone in November, more than 1,000. What can we do from the institutions? We don't want a wall. Do you really think the wall will solve the problem? Does that make your conscience calm? What are we supposed to do to solve the origin of this problem? That's why we're asking this congressman to come up against the dock wall and pray you, too. We believe that security and human rights are not opposed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u26	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, good morning. Today we are here to discuss an initiative that has much to do with the democratic height of this government and the moral height of Euskadi. It has to do with this, because implementing punitive or dissuasive solutions, such as the construction of a four-metre wall of slippery concrete, as the only measure to a serious situation of human rights violations is, no more or less, to look short. They will continue to come and die, because history has proved that there are no walls to stop dreams. It's a ten-year sentence, and unfortunately it's still quite useful in the present situation. We have to have a long look and a short step. Because we talk about people leaving their country of origin trying to achieve a better life, and we already know that there has always been and always will be. Because we are a land of emigrants; we were also in times of war and hunger (some of us had to be cops here too), we are today in times of crisis, although young Basque women and young people who come out of the world today have been born on the right side and do not have to put their lives at risk. And of course because we are land of transit and destination. And that has always been and always will continue to be so, because migratory movements are as old as Humanity. However, the militarization of borders, the closure of Europe-Fortress gates, the lack of secure channels for increasingly restrictive people and policies in the area of human rights, wars, transnational corporations and even climate change are leading to a gradual increase in refugees, and of course worsening the transit in which people who want to migrate can do so. And the construction of the wall in the port of Bilbao, as well as the settlements surrounding it, are not alien to this, as the people in transit in Euskadi are not alien and are increasing, while the institutional officials look elsewhere to see if it happens without making much noise. And this is not tolerable. And it is not tolerable because we would miss our mandate with a citizenship that has already given us plenty of lessons of involvement and will for migrant and refugee people, but above all because we would miss our duty as public representatives with regard to law enforcement and respect for human rights. We have a duty to be a memory of our yesterday and to be a refuge today, especially because this issue is being made visible by a series of purely economic interests, both from the media and from the institutions, and that cannot be the case. Control over protection cannot be prioritized, although this seems to become commonplace in government parties. It is apparent that the control of aid has taken the taste of criminalizing the worst person. In any case, and from the point of view of ensuring the security of all people, do you really believe that a wall is a solution to ensure this security? Do they really believe it, or is it the position they have to take? What have the walls of Ceuta, Melilla, Palestine, Mexico served? We are clear that they have served one thing, it is true: to violate rights, to create mafias, to accumulate dead. Because, as Galeano said in his book Mirrors, "The Berlin Wall was the news of every day. From morning to night we read, we saw, we listened: the Wall of Shame, the Wall of Infamy, the Iron Curtain... "Finally, that wall, which deserved to fall, fell. But other walls have sprouted, they continue to sprout, in the world, and although they are much larger than that of Berlin, little or nothing is said about them." Little is said of the United States wall on the Mexican border, and little of the wires of Ceuta or Melilla. Almost nothing is said about the West Bank Wall, which perpetuates the Israeli occupation of Palestinian lands and will be fifteen times longer than the Berlin Wall. And nothing, nothing at all, of the Moroccan Wall, which perpetuates the theft of the Saharawi homeland by the Moroccan kingdom and measures sixty times more than the Berlin Wall. "Why will it be," Galeano said, "that there are high walls and mute walls?". Ladies and gentlemen, citizenship, we refuse to be part of a territory where the walls are mute, and that is why today we will support EH Bildu's proposal. Because, although we know that the infrastructure we are talking about today is not strictly a border, it is indeed a border. We also know that, although problems and arrivals are not the same or due to the same causes, the walls, the private police, the securitization and the fear do not lead us to solutions that bet on coexistence and human rights. There has to be another way out, there has to be another way, because the only thing that leads us to this is that people have to choose very high-risk ways and practices, such as breathing through a bag or bottle to avoid CO loading. 2 And so the police don't catch them. At any time we will have news of those that I am sure we do not want to hear, of those for which you will say that we are not responsible, but to some extent we will all be. We also know that these people do not want to be visible, we also know that no one should be allowed to play the game of life, and we are even aware of the difficulty that could be posed by an approach framed by the current legality that allows to support these people, but we have to be able to find solutions for all, not just for goods. And this doesn't stop with walls, it doesn't fix with walls. The only thing the walls do is generate division, create a risk of impunity behind them, and risk the lives of those who are just trying to find a way out to have something that is not just survival at the moment. Therefore, from Elkarrekin We believe that we must seek ways towards respect for human rights, towards the dignity of people; not walls that divide us and install in the collective imagination the idea of one against us, or of one against us. Because, following Galeano's words, "from time to time, butterflies, swallows and flamingos fly away from the cold, year after year, and swim whales in search of another sea and salmon and trout in search of their rivers. They travel thousands of leagues, through the free paths of air and water. "The ways of the human exodus are not free. In immense caravans, the fugitives of impossible life march. They travel from the south to the north and from the rising sun to the setting", because "they have stolen their place in the world", we are stealing their place in the world. Today, with this proposal negotiated with EH Bildu, we say that the construction of walls is not rotund and that we are not rotund to move away from human rights. Because this wall only leads us to retreat in time, to retreat as human beings and as rights-guarantee administrations. José Saramago said: "We are the memory we have and the responsibility we assume, without memory we do not exist and without responsibility we may not deserve to exist." At the very least, the prospect of information spreading about the new urban transformation infrastructure in Bilbao, a euphemism not to mention what a wall of shame is, is disturbing. They try to convince us that it is a purely economic issue, a resource issue, a security issue, but we cannot and must not put trade interests or security above human beings. We cannot and should not place at the centre of this discourse the economic needs or pressures of the ferry company. We can and must, however, place at the centre of discourse the policies and measures the rights of those who, in their desperate search for a future, are forced by current migration policies to seek alternatives that put their lives at risk. We are talking about police stations, avoiding talking about people, migrants, Albanian-Kosovares; we are talking about avalanche, invasion, public hygiene problems, illegal camps, critical infrastructure, fear that they are not safe enough; we are talking about drama for the Basque industry. The president of the port of Bilbao, Mr Atutxa, says that this is not a matter of refugees, but of legal immigration, taking for granted what he says, without saying that those in the port are illegal. And the truth is that I thought that at this point, and in an institution, in a public office that represents us all in theory, I wouldn't have to hear such horror. People, whether of Albanian origin but also of Afghan or Iraqi origin, are not illegal, because no one is. These people are human beings, and as many are in an irregular administrative situation, but especially these people are neighbors and neighbors, temporarily or permanently. Neighbors and neighbors. And forgive me for the expression, but it is very rude to denigrate these people doubly, and above all it is dangerous to turn them off from being a subject of rights. We are not going to collaborate with this, neither with the wall nor with the criminalization of rights, of women rights defenders and of the people who play their lives to exercise them. Euskadi is a land of solidarity, a land of welcome and a land that remembers that it does not want one more Gernika, that it does not want to participate in ports open only to weapons that kill girls and boys in Yemen. The lehendakari in April – and it is a shame that there is no member of the government here – said in his institutional statement that the institutions ask and offer a commitment. And he said so on the principles of solidarity, responsibility and legality. Is building this wall a guarantee of applying these principles? I'd like an answer. We do not agree, and in order to be consistent with our speeches, with our statements, and above all with the defence of human rights, it is up to us to stop and say that we are not going to be accomplices. We invite the rest of the groups represented in this House to do so too. We do not want to enter the competition, whether or not we approve this proposal, because it is going to stand firm or not in the defence of human rights, and it is a matter of political will. We, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, with this proposal from the hand of EH Bildu, stand in the defense of human rights and make an opening to place ourselves politically in the protection, in justice, in respect for the international law of all people to migrate and live lives that are worth living, without encountering a wall that prevents it. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Passing round the teams that run the corrections to the Basque Popular Group. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u28	Mrs Guanche, it seems to me that your speech is the most regrettable thing I have heard in this Parliament a long time ago. Because to talk about human rights in this case is to lower what human rights are. You have come to give us a speech that can be made on the border of Mexico with the United States, if you want on that of Melilla, if you want in Eastern Europe, but the port of Bilbao? Really? You tell me that we are a host country, and that it is unfortunate that we put a wall on them to escape. But are we welcome, or what are we? A little coherence, eh!, especially when you talk so much about human rights and you handle so much human rights. Since when does there exist a human right to attack the cargo that will be loaded on a ship? Is that a human right? Or getting into the hold of an airplane, is that a human right? Really? The representative of EH Bildu has told us that we are going to talk about security, and that security and human rights are not at odds. And, in fact, they're not in a fight. But it is that the port of Bilbao is a commercial structure, like the airport of Bilbao... Because I don't know why we're talking about the port and we're not talking about the airport! Or what? Can people storm planes? Boats do, and planes don't? Load yes, and planes no? The port of Bilbao is legally bound, in Spain and in Europe and in the world, like all ports, to compliance with the International Code of Protection of Ships and Port Facilities, and that means that there has to be control of everything that enters and leaves that port, be people, goods, vehicles... Of all that. It's an obligation. And Mrs. Guanche was telling us that the problem is that the wall... Let's see, Mrs. Guanche, the port of Bilbao, like all ports, is fenced, has fences. When the fences are broken, the fences are fixed. When they break again, they fix again. And if in the end they do not serve, then another remedy will have to be put in place, right? Or not? Or should we remove the fences? Shall we remove the ones from the airport, too? You tell us you're saving a company's business... Well, I'll explain. Brittany Ferries, although it may seem otherwise, is a French company operating in the port of Bilbao, on one line..., practically the only passenger from Bilbao to another European city. But basically, basically, the business is the transfer of goods, both on the ferry and on the other boat, because it has two ships. And you'll see what happens in these cases. These Albanians that you say, in the end – which I think you know, because the NGOs that have worked with you have explained it to you, right? – are not illegal. They've got papers, hey! Europe, Schengen, has an agreement with Albania, and they have a visa to enter Europe; what happens is that England, Britain, did not sign it. The only place in Europe where they can't go legally is Britain, which is casually where these Albanian gentlemen want to go. But we all know that. You guys too. You guys too. So don't mix me refugees and the tragedy of the refugees with these gentlemen. And in England they don't even want to see them. And you know why they don't even want to see them? You can read the Times : because you know what they do there, and you know they come here with money, with mobile; that on weekends, as there are no ships from Bilbao to England and there are in Santander, so you take the taxi and go to Santander. But you know this too, and Bildu knows it too. And Bildu knows that, too. And when you get into the load, in a trailer, I don't know if you'll know, but it's a human right to do your needs, and when you get that load to England and you get it, the company says, "Back the load, it's no longer worth it." So, the company that has exported that cargo via Bilbao port to England says, "I also have to change port, because the port of Bilbao is not safe for my goods, nor for the cargo." Hey, and the one who's stuffing himself, you know who he is? The English Government. Why? Because for every immigrant who takes these, who takes them all, because they are waiting for them (they review all containers and all trailers one by one, they all take them all), they put that French company a fine of 2,000 euros and they force it to return them. Because they all give them back to us, accompanied by two people, who then have to pay for the trip back to England again on the plane, and it costs that French company 7,000 euros. I will tell you what would be the formula for not making walls or fences: we remove the line, we stop having from the port of Bilbao a commercial line with England, and the problem is over. Lifting a wall is the solution? Well, probably not. Now, the solution is to remove the line. That is the solution, because they will automatically go to Vigo, as some are already going, and to Santander. We removed the line from the port of Bilbao to Southampton, and the story is over, and we no longer have a problem, and human rights are no longer violated. Now, travelers who want to go will have to look for another port, they won't be able to go from Bilbao. And those companies that want to export goods to England, then, will have to use another port, they will get more expensive, they will get better, they will get worse... But this is not a human rights issue, as you have come to tell us here, and you know it. This is a matter of very serious damage and security, yes, security; security even for them. Security even for them. Because neither on a ship nor on a plane can go as many people as it is, and it also has to go under proper conditions. Because violating people's human rights is allowing them to travel that way or put in a container. That is a violation of human rights, and you are asking us to allow that to happen. Yes, yes, Mrs. Guanche, you say, "Wow, what a shame. You don't have to put that wall on. We're going to let them keep traveling like this." Yes, of course, this is your solution. I tell you, look, the easiest solution: we remove the Bilbao-England line, and there would be no problem anymore. Because it's not a problem whether we're in foster care here or not. If you have been offered to stay, and you know it! The social services of the Basque Government have done so, and they have given up, they have given up doing so, because they do not want to. Because they don't have that problem; their problem is to get to England as soon as possible. And they want to get to England because it's obvious they have the business they have there. And as the English gentlemen know, above are the great beneficiaries of this story. Because, I repeat, they're the only ones who make money with it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u29	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u30	Thank you, ma'am. This subject is not at all pretty and easy; you can see it from different views, and I should like to see it from a sixth point of view. From the point of view of responsibility, because we all have a point of responsibility here, right? Yeah, he's in the government, he's in opposition, because we have a personal responsibility. We have a very instinctive subject on the table, and we cannot refuse this debate or this situation. Here is the work of Helena Maleno, and at the beginning of my intervence I should like to give her not only solidarity, but rather to speak of her work; we believe that she is doing a very good work, and that we also, the Raphael, who is our teammate, wrote to her by Romerus. But I don't want you to say this loss of yours and tell me about his plan. Damborenea jaunari, I think this issue needs to be taken very sensitively, very cautiously, and I think that trying to generalize and say that these people, well, little less that they are criminals, I think it is not the right thing to do. They are people who are migrants, and comparing them with other people's attitudes that I believe have nothing to do with the circumstances or attitudes of these people who arrive at the port of Bilbao is not exactly the right thing to do. I believe that on this issue the issue is very much focusing on the construction of the wall itself, but I believe that the problem goes far beyond that. There are several issues, mainly two issues and some circumstances. Two competing issues both..., excuse me, a competing issue, another humanitarian issue, and one circumstance, which are the circumstances the underlying problem in all of this. Competition issues. Well, the port is the responsibility of the state, not the Basque Government. Of course, it is the Basque Government that appoints the director of the port. There are companies governed by private law, by international law; there are a number of obligations to be fulfilled, a number of issues to be guaranteed, a law to be complied with – which we may like more or less, but which is currently the one that is in force, and obviously we cannot overlook it, although obviously always, from our position, we can try to make that regulation, that legislation change to better – there are powers in the area of security, which also do not usually facilitate these kinds of issues... Why? Because in matters of public order and security are the municipal police and the Ertzaintza, because in question of aliens we have the National Police, and because in question of ports and customs we have the Civil Guard. It is not easy to manage an issue like this, but, as I was saying, I think that we are mainly talking about circumstances, a humanitarian issue, beyond what management can be, what powers can be, or what security issues, administrative issues can be. We are talking about migrants, who mainly come from Albania. That they are not migrants who want to settle in our country, in our autonomous community, but are passing through here. Why? Because your goal is to get to the UK. That also makes some issues difficult, and we cannot ignore it. They are people who in certain circumstances arrive here trying to catch the ferry, trying to look for that exit to the UK, and find themselves here under certain circumstances. They're looking for their life plan, they want to look for a better way out, but I think qualifying these people as refugees is not the right thing to do. They're migrants. It is true that they unite issues that are very similar to those of refugees. Why? Because they are fleeing certain circumstances, because in some cases they are fleeing the war, because they are fleeing situations of violence, because they are fleeing situations of poverty, because they seek a better future for them and for their own, because they go hungry, because they go through very calamitous situations... And that unites them. It unites them, but I think we have to distinguish it. As I said, they are people who are in Euskadi by the way, they are on their way to looking for a future that is in the United Kingdom, but that obviously in their way settle in Zierbena, make life in Santurtzi... They are settlements that do not meet adequate conditions, neither hygiene nor safety, and within our competence, of course, we need to ensure that these people have access to the rights that others have. In that regard, I believe that we need to ensure in the best possible way that these people have that assistance, and have access to those rights for as long as they are here. We have to ensure that, and therefore we have to avoid putting them at risk. And I know that is being done from the Basque Government. The Government is concerned that this will happen. Obviously, can there be room for improvement? Of course I do. That there will be circumstances that get out of our hands? Of course you do, too. Let us try to correct them, and let us try, as I said, to guarantee those rights for those people. I therefore believe that we, from our firm commitment to human rights, and you know it, because in different committees we have made it known, know perfectly well what our position is, and I think it is not at all ambiguous... I believe that it is a firm commitment, which is not from now on, that goes in the DNA of the socialists; it will remain in force, and from our responsibility in the Government, either from the opposition, we are where we are, we will always ensure that these human rights are fully respected. In us these people will always have allies, through which we will try to improve their circumstances and try to improve their quality of life for as long as they are in our community. Have no doubt about that. Moreover, we not only carried those issues on our electoral agenda, but there is even a specific bloc within the government agreement between the Basque Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, which is precisely one of the main axes of that government agreement, which is an axis dedicated to coexistence, to human rights, which also translates into a specific plan for human rights and coexistence, which was brought to this House and fortunately has broad support for it. However, we are going to vote against the compromise agreement. Why? I'll explain. Not because we disagree with the bottom, but because we understand that there are form errors. We think there's some form errors, why? Because this issue is being dealt with from a refugee point of view, and they are not refugees, they are migrants. Other competition, regulatory issues have to be taken into account... I do not think that this issue can be dealt with lightly. As I said, it must be approached from the point of view of absolute responsibility, with great care for all the issues on this subject, and we therefore believe that there is a mistake in such a way that, in our view, this is not possible. The port, of course, is not a border. Of course it's not a border! Compared to other borders, I think it's distorting circumstances, and I don't think we can get into such perverse debates. I think we have to be extremely rigorous, and we have to try to tackle this debate – as I said at the beginning – from the absolute responsibility. As I say, absolutely respecting and absolutely coinciding, as a socialist parliamentary group, with the substance of the matter, both in what the parliamentary group EH Bildu has put forward and in what the parliamentary group Elkarrekin Podemos has put forward. Can the construction of that wall be adequate or not? I have my own particular opinion, but, finally, I believe that this is a matter which is not for us in this case. We may have an opinion, but I don't think we can do anything about it. Therefore, it is a competition of the port, and the port itself will be the one who has to make the decision on it. We will have to try to find alternatives, we will have to try to improve those issues that we understand to be deficient, but always trying to ensure security. We are talking about an issue, as I said, sensitive, humanitarian, but there are also security issues on which I believe we must be very careful and not treat certain things so lightly. Interinstitutional efforts have been made, and I am aware that work is being done from the Basque Government with the municipalities, with the deputies and with the private operators who manage the matter. Alternatives are also being sought, especially for the winter months, so that the living conditions of these people are as adequate as possible. The possibility of creating an observatory is being evaluated... Anyway, I think things are being done. More can always be done, of course; as long as there are people who are living in the circumstances that these people are living, there will always be something more to do. I only want to say that as a socialist parliamentary group we will always be willing to work on this issue, and of course to do everything possible to ensure that its conditions are the best possible in its way through our community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u31	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians. Mr. Abrahams, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u32	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Congressmen, ladies and gentlemen, good days to all. The subject that EH Bildu brings us today to debate on this point has already been dealt with in this Parliament at the initiative of Elkarrekin We can, in the form of a request for information, oral written questions and a request for the attendance of the Counsellor for Economic Development and Infrastructure, which will in principle be discussed next Monday, 18. It has also been discussed at the General Councils of Bizkaia and the municipalities of Bilbao, Zierbena and Santurtzi, and in all cases with the same result that seems to be adopted by this House today: the rejection of EH Bildu's proposal, which will only be supported by Elkarrekin Podemos. The president of the Harbour Authority was even asked in the presentation of the strategic plan of the port of Bilbao on November 8, giving this fulfilled answer. In addition to other meetings held by representatives of political groups, as Mrs Agirre has said, with other representatives of the Government. Therefore, this is a subject on which, in theory (I stress: in theory), we should have enough information to address it, and we understand that we must deal with it responsibly and leaving the demagoguery aside, Mrs Agirre and above all Mrs Guanche, since we are faced with a reality of special sensitivity. We are faced with a subject that has two different aspects or areas, which are of great importance to both of us and to us, and which one does not exclude the other, although, as we have seen, some try to mix even with some other topic, it is not well known with what intentions, or yes. On the one hand are the legal obligations of the port, and here we find a specific situation: the repeated attempt of several people to access the port facilities, in particular the terminal of the passenger ferry destined for the United Kingdom. One of the measures taken by the port authority is the decision to build a wall in the vicinity of access to that terminal in the port of Bilbao, for security reasons. And this seems to be the reason for all these initiatives. Until then we have not been aware of any other initiatives in this regard, and at least since 2014, when 39 people were intercepted, this problem is latent. The law is clear in this regard, and obliges the port to ensure the safety of persons and goods in its facilities. In particular, the State Ports Act, the Law for the Protection of Critical Infrastructures and the International Code for the Protection of Ships and Port Facilities require the control of the entry and stay of persons and vehicles in the port, which must be justified by the performance of a task, service or transport related to the port activity. And all this regardless of who or who tried to access or whatever their nationalities, whether from Eibar, Balmasseda, Amurrio, or Albania. Therefore, the construction of this wall has no connection with situations relating to adequate attention to situations of aid or protection of refugees or human rights violations. The port, as Mr Damborenea mentioned, as well as the airports, is a critical infrastructure, where the transit of people is prohibited, and I repeat, regardless of the nationality of those people. And it is necessary to ensure the safety of the people who are working in the port and the safety of the goods that transit there. There is a legal requirement in this regard: access to the port facility must be restricted and controlled. We were able to check it out in the past legislature, when members of the Economic Development Commission visited the ports of Pasaia and Bilbao, and we saw what the risk we had when we went through those facilities, even though we were on a microbus, and also the discomfort we created for the normal development of the port's work. So we treat of the security and execution of a critical infrastructure. The numerous and repeated attempts to access its facilities, in addition to violating international security standards, put at risk even the security of the people themselves who seek to access them irregularly; therefore, their integrity must be protected. Mrs Agirre, Mrs Guanche, what would happen if one of those people who try to access in any way suffered some serious accident (which, by the way, has been close to happening: a few weeks ago three people were located in a container in the port breathing with plastic tubes)? Who would you take responsibility for? I think the answer is pretty easy. It should also be mentioned that, prior to the adoption of this measure, additional protective measures have been adopted, such as the repair and improvement of the perimeter closure of the port compound, or the strengthening of the human and technical means of the port police, but these measures have not been sufficiently effective. This is why new measures have been taken, such as the construction of the wall, the recruitment of private security to complement the functions of the port police, and the installation of a video-detection system. The port has a responsibility and an obligation to ensure security within its facilities, and has to take action in this regard. Therefore, the actions of the Port Authority are uniquely and exclusively and necessarily due to the State and international regulatory obligations regarding the protection of passengers and goods, regardless of who or who tries to access or whatever their nationality. Of these legal obligations of the port, neither EH Bildu nor Elkarrekin We may have talked, about its requirement of compliance. You say that human rights are being violated. I ask you (then answer me, in the second round): What human rights are being violated by preventing irregular access to a critical facility such as a port or an airport? Tell me what human rights are being violated. We know – someone has asked that question – that the construction of this wall does not solve the problem of immigration (of course, it does not solve it; it is a more serious problem), but it does take steps in the other line that we say, in the other area, in the security of the port. It would be ideal that with a strip marked on the ground it would be enough to delimit the spaces to which you can or cannot access, but well, we are not illusory about it. And on the other hand, we have a problem of humanitarian dimensions, the important issue of the human rights of migrants who have settled in the harbour environment. In this case, it is a question of providing living conditions from a perspective of comprehensive attention to the situation of people fleeing their countries of origin in the face of tragic and dramatic situations, or who simply migrate in search of a better life. Eusko Jaurlaritzak belongs to guztien giza eskubideak bermatzen ditu, giza eskubideen erespectuan race heir. To this end, an inter-institutional commission has been set up consisting of the Basque Government, the Diputación Foral de Bizkaia, the Harbour Authority, the affected municipalities, the security forces, the Red Cross and CEAR, which are working to ensure the dignity, security, rights and duties of all people, working in institutional coordination, humanitarian assistance, informing and advising all those who come from the legal options they have, of which they have; prevention, considering the high risk these people run by moving through a port area where there is a significant traffic in goods; security in the area of the municipalities in which they are moving, and coexistence with the neighbours and neighbours of those municipalities. Work is under way from the highest sensitivity and with the highest responsibility for the rights of each person arriving in Euskadi, whether Albanian, Syrian or English. We're gonna let that interinstitutional table work. I do not think you have any doubt, Mrs Agirre and Mrs Guanche, that Euskadi is a land of solidarity and that it is a land of welcome. We talk about compliance with legality and humanity. Both must be carried out. They are not opposed, nor are they eliminated from each other. Really, Mrs Guanche, the fact that we do not raise that wall, which is the main objective of these initiatives, do you, and you too, Mrs Agirre, consider it an improvement in human rights and conditions for these people? I mean, if this wall doesn't rise, is it an improvement for these people, for these people's living conditions? Is that what is being proposed to defend the improvement of human rights? What brings their non-construction to these people? We're going to ensure security and we're going to work with those people so that they have decent, basic conditions for it. "Ponn más interes en el muro que en la mejora de las condiciones de statuses." So, in one way, we vote against this initiative. The port of the Union is obliged to take measures, as it were, to secure the safety of persons and merchandise in the ports of the harbour; and likewise to guard this commission of organization, and allow the men who arrive at the Euscae to be present in worthy conditions of humanity. In order to do this, we will take the necessary measures of social distress to ensure their fundamental wants, and always from respect to their human rights. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u33	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u34	Thank you. Mr. Damborenea, just an annotation: Brittany Ferries is because it's Breton, that's where the name comes from. Point of view. All right. It can be migrated for two reasons: it can be for personal reasons, for love, for work, or it can be forced to migrate, for war or for the misery that you live in your own country. That is why we believe that emigration is also a right, and that is what we have come to defend here. It's a person's right. At no time, and I have been conscious, have I quoted the word "refugee". I've just talked about people. And we are very concerned about the wall, obviously, the physical wall, but after listening to it almost more concerned about the mental wall they have. Because you prioritize goods, business, people, and that's the worrying thing, and that's exactly what concerns us about that wall, the mindset that's being transmitted. And it also seems a little obscene to me to say that, well, we're not going to be able to travel on the ferry, while there are people who are playing their lives for getting on that ferry. I don't know if you've done me a bit of a shift or a "damaged." I don't know, what does the law say about the wall? Are you legal on this side of the Wall? If you're past that wall, isn't it? Where's that line? We acknowledged that he's done his work, that he's paid attention to these people, but we think the wall isn't a solution, and you know that, too, and you'll know what you've got to do to avoid protecting our proposal. That's... And besides, a little, I don't know, it makes me look... You say, well, you didn't protect him from a defect of form. We believe that we would be ready, and I informed you so, that we wished to speak with you, that we might be able to examine. And if it's just a matter of form, we can change shape... The problem is, it's a cone, but there's no problem with us because of the forms. Mr. Zorrilla, you've made me a sort of, I don't know, press summary or documentation, but I would have preferred you to tell me about your contradictions, how... Well, tell me how people's rights are married to commercial interests. Talk to me, because we understand. I mean, we're in an empathic position (it's also ours), we understand that it's not an easy issue to deal with. We just insist, and I insist again, that the wall is not the solution, because, I repeat, what is it?, one person is legal on this side of the wall and the other person is not? Where's that line? And you also gave me a summary, but you did not pay too much attention to me when I spoke, because I have not quoted the word "refugee" at any time, and it has been consciously. I'm talking about people. In my text, in my speech, you have not heard that. Eta testu-zati bat irakuriko diszuet: "Policy in its most genuine sense, whether exercised by institutions or by civil society, is intimately linked to the meanings of empathy. It is not only the ability to put oneself in the place of another human being, it is the ability to worry and take care of others. Empathy is the experience that allows us to understand the importance of pursuing the common good, at least as well as the particular good." These are the words of the lehendakari Urkullu in the institutional declaration "We ask and offer a commitment": empathy, putting oneself in the place of another person. Hori Bakarrik eskatzen said, Bilboko portuan friends beat bila etorri eta amets txarra bizitzen ari direen horien lekuan jartzea. This subject is ridiculous, it creates contradictions, but we believe that it obliges us to find other solutions. It's not easy, we know, we confess. Seriously, we admit it. But we believe migration to be a right, and this legislature must defend its right. That's our responsibility. We invite you to commit, and we offer ours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Mrs. Guanche, together Podemos. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, members of the legislature. We've said it before, and we'll say it out loud again: by this initiative we place ourselves in favor of human rights, for protection, for justice, and for international regulations. All men, without exception, have a right to migrate, and we must all seek a worthy life without finding walls on the road. Mr Damborenea, you have only heard a part of what I have said, and, frankly, that my speech seems to you to flatter me, because I know that we are in very different places on this subject, of which I am proud. I'll freshen you up. The violation of human rights in Ceuta and Melilla will not be if I want to. It will be if you want, that you are the ones who have in your hands to stop the hot returns or stop violating the human rights of the entire population to which you are being violated. You talk about people who storm the containers, who can storm planes, who storm the port, who in England don't want to see them, who take a taxi (you haven't told them to buy), who have mobile phones and everything. Man, please! How do you think a poor man would wear something fundamental like a mobile phone? Aren't you ashamed of yourself? Really? Aren't you ashamed of yourself? In his speech he put the charges in the center, he put the money in the center. No wonder, I know where it comes from and I can't wait any longer. But what I'm not going to tolerate is that I put fear in the center, because with fear it doesn't help and it doesn't build. This is a human rights issue. And I also said – that is why I say that you have only heard part of my speech – that I am aware of how complex it is to address a solution to this situation, but that solution cannot be a wall, it must not be a wall. Mr Andueza, what I propose, when I say that the wall cannot be, is to get together, think and not support this kind of action. I have the doubt that if we remove from our amendment the word "refugees" and put "migrants", or "persons", without a surname, would they perhaps support the initiative? Because, if that's the case, we'll rethink it and do another one again in a moment. In any case, I have the feeling that, both you and Mr. Zorrilla, with one hand give a caress and with the other a slap. Mr Atutxa, who has the responsibility or at least the ability to bring to the port the voice of this Parliament, for which he has been elected, has supported, has not said nor is this mouth mine. So, how do you live together? I, Mr Zorrilla, will answer your questions, but before that, you have forgotten to say that there has also been an intergroup in defence of the rights of migrants and refugees at our request, in which we have also spoken about this subject. You have said that Mr Atutxa's answer has been left unanswered, and properly answered. I don't know if I've got the exact words. Do you really think so? Do you really think so? It has directly linked migrant people, those who do so, to terrorism. Do you really think that's responsible?, that that's "overly answered"? I'm gonna be dead, actually. You said one day there's gonna be a serious accident. I also mentioned it in my speech. But a wall solves that these serious accidents aren't going to happen? In my opinion, it can generate other types of accidents that can be even more serious, and for which all of us will be to some extent responsible. I have told you that I am aware of the difficulty of creating a solution respecting legality and its compliance. I'm conscious, but the wall isn't going to fix this. And what right is violated? The human right contained in the International Declaration of Human Rights as No. 13 is violated: the right to transit, to free movement, to move freely and to choose freely residence in the territory of a State. Really, answer me to the question I asked you in my opening speech and to which I repeat now: do you really believe that the solution is to put a wall? A balance must be struck between law enforcement and respect for people's vital projects, no doubt, but also for the protection of human rights. This is complex, but it's not impossible. If we do not take action and put aside the proposals involving repression of citizens, we will not find any solution. This Saturday at 11 a.m. there will be a mobilization called by the feminist movement to say that the war begins in Bilbao: it begins in the port, with the load of arms to Yemen; it begins in the port, with a wall that leaves people out and away from their ability to exercise a human right. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Euscal Group Popula representative. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Agirre, you say, "No, I don't say they're refugees." All this comes from this headline: "A four-metre wall to prevent the transit of refugees", from the September newspaper Gara. That's why we're here today, for this headline. We are not for this other one that is of the same day: "The ferry is posed its continuity in Bilbao by the avalanche of cops". That's why we're here. Or, Mr Andueza, we are also not for "Port of Bilbao, the Albanian connection to the United Kingdom", from El País. We're not here either. However, the right to migrate and the wall of the port of Bilbao. And what does one thing have to do with the other? Mrs. Agirre, Mrs. Guanche, do you have the right to enter the port of Bilbao? I don't. Do you have the right to climb through the gates of the port of Bilbao? Me neither! So, what right are you telling me you're violating when it comes to preventing people from doing so? Do you know (and look, El País picks it up pretty well), do you know what the real problem is? And what did the Breton company ask for, a.k.a. French? He didn't ask to raise a wall! It called for the adaptation of Spanish legislation to French law, which is considered a criminal offence to enter the port of Bilbao illegally. You, whether Albanian or from anywhere, or from Eibar, that today Eibar was beyond fashion. That's what they asked, that legislation be changed in Spain, because it's a hummingbird that stops the same person seventeen times, until in the end he gets in, because nothing happens, because it's an administrative sanction, and in many cases it's not treated as an administrative sanction. And they know it, and that's why they're here. And they're not in the French ports, this doesn't happen in the French ports, it doesn't happen there. They've come to Bilbao. But look at the extent to which things are going, that many are going to Vigo to get into boats that go to Canada, and then, in Canada, to go to Britain. Look, you tell me, "How come they won't have...!". Hey, mobile, money, everything. Of all things, yes, man, yes! That's right. How do you think they got here? With a visa. Six-month tourist visa! That's right, that's right! And you tell me... Look, I'm gonna tell you what others have written. "From our perspective, this situation has connotations that are difficult to understand and expose" – of course, it is not Spanish who writes it. "That the same individual may be arrested a great number of times, released continuously, without its acts having consequences. That more than 95% of these more than a thousand subjects are Albanian citizens, with the same profile (man, 15 to 30 years old, Muslim, with Albanian passport, six-month Schengen tourist visa), and among their belongings there is plenty of cash, mobile phones and other external signs that clearly denounce that he is not an immigrant." That we didn't write it! This is what's going on. Look, you've come to make a demagogic debate about (yes, yes, yes!)... , about refugees, immigrants, and this is not the case, and they know it. But since there was a newspaper, called Gara, that pulled the headline out of the wall of shame, then you have to come here to make the paripé. But I'm telling you! And, of course, the representative of EH Bildu with much more reason. Hey, this is over if you take the line off. Eye! And maybe, if there's no wall, the line doesn't need to take it off, huh! I've read the headline: they're considering leaving. Why? Because they're losing customers. Why? Because its load does not reach Britain in conditions. Then, they prefer to board from another port. Perhaps, listen, within a reasonable time, if this issue is not fixed and we are not able to solve it, no problem, when the line disappears. Because we don't put the line in. Lines, in case they don't know, or commercially are profitable, or they aren't, and if they aren't, they disappear. And in the case that we are dealing with after many years we have managed to have a line..., because we wanted there to be a line (other groups too) that would unite Bilbao with England, and after many years we have a solvent and profitable line. And of course, in our view, in the face of the demagogy that has been done here by some, what needs to be done is to try to maintain that line, and that it is indeed competitive. But above all, let it be safe for the people who travel and for the burden they carry.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u39	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u40	Mr. Damborenea, let's leave Eibar alone today, which we've had enough already, eh! Well, the law says what it says. And I think I have been clear when in my first speech I said that if you ask me for my personal opinion of the wall, then I have the opinion that I have, and I understand very few words. I don't think I need to tell you any more. But it is also true that the law says that a number of issues must be guaranteed, and we cannot skip the law. And we can all put ourselves in a very idyllic situation, in some cases even to a demagogic point, but there are security issues that I believe must be guaranteed. And when I talk about security, I'm not talking about the safety of the ferry or the passengers on the ferry, but about those very migrants who are there. And those things have to be guaranteed. And if we do an objective, cold analysis of how the port is, how certain things are usually done, there are certain security risks, and that must also be taken into account. It's not worth saying, "We're against building that wall..." No, no, We must analyse everything with due coldness and with due objectivity, and I believe that there we cannot be irresponsible and fall into the demagogic discourse of opposing something without valuing other circumstances. I think we have to walk with a lot of tension. We could not agree anything with you, among other things, because we had no amendment, but, in any case, I have no doubt that if we bring up these kinds of issues at another time we can play in two ways. One, guaranteeing or trying to do a prior exercise to make the approach more appropriate, and whether we propose an amendment to reach agreement. You know very well that when we table amendments, we never have any reservations about talking, talking, trying to reach an agreement. Or I'm even going to propose another exercise that I think may even be much more valid. When we deal with issues of this kind, in which I also believe that we can reach broad consensus within this House, perhaps we should consider, before registering an initiative unilaterally, on the subject at hand, trying to reach a prior agreement, trying to agree between all the parliamentary groups on a GNP that is signed by all the groups, which I believe, in addition to being much more correct, can reinforce certain issues. I think it's an exercise we should do, and on issues like these I think it's a very healthy exercise. I invite you to do so, and, of course, if you are raising the possibility of registering such issues, I have no problem with them calling us, let us analyse it, and let us even see the possibility of reaching broad agreements so that these initiatives are registered by as many parliamentary groups as possible. For our part there is no problem, but quite the opposite. I have already told you that in this matter I saw a major defect, and that is what has made our vote against. But I repeat and reiterate what I said in my first speech: at the bottom of the matter we agree perfectly. And if we are even talking about agreeing on measures or plans in a much more comprehensive, much more comprehensive, much broader way, not just for these circumstances, but for refugees, migrants, who are passing through, who are not passing through, who are going to stay..., we always, always, will always be willing to sit down and talk and do the exercise we have to do to reach an agreement. We will always, always, always. And if it is in an integral way, as is done for example in the intergroups, we are delighted. Lovely to meet you. What do you want me to tell you, Mrs. Guanche? You know perfectly well how we think, what our sensitivity is and how we work; I therefore believe that there is no doubt there: whether we are going to support this issue today or not, I do not think they can call into question our group's commitment to the defence of human rights at all. Therefore, yes, the approach may have a terminological problem, but I do not think it is a terminological problem. Beyond terminology, I think it's a wrong approach to the concept, which I think you have clear, eh! (Eye, I think you have it clear), but when it comes to putting it here, I don't think it was the right thing to do. If you ask me about the statements of the president of the port, what do you want me to tell you! I don't share them. I don't share them. But I remain with what I have told you before, with the will of this Socialist Group to address these issues in a comprehensive manner. And, as I said before, if at one point you feel it is appropriate that a non-legislative proposal should be tabled in this House on this subject, taking into account the sensitivity of the issue, I would like to say that perhaps we could do the previous exercise to try to reach an agreement before registering it, and that this non-legislative proposal should be backed up, signed by all parliamentary groups, or at least by the majority of parliamentary groups as possible.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u41	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. And finally, the Eubertians. Mr. Abrahams, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Agirre, I think you were mistaken as a interlocutor when you were referring to whether I had mentioned the word "refugees", or thought I had spoken of refugees. But, it is enough that he blames me, you just have to read the proposition, the text of the proposed law he has presented, where he speaks of "refugees" in point 1 and point 4 of the operative part. That is to say, although he has not done so in his speech, in his text – and that is what he proposed – he does mention it. He also told me that he had made a press summary. Well, I didn't mean to make a press summary. My intention – and I think that after I made the press summary I made it clear – was to mean that on this subject we should all, in theory, also have all the information to deal with this matter responsibly. Which I don't think is being done, and it's been done with a lot of demagogy. Anyway, for me it has been more interesting (however, I have done it myself) the press summary than your virtual walk through the 11th floor of the port of Bilbao and the vision of the ships from there, with all due respect. It also talked about people's rights to economic rights. It also says so in its text. Well, we think it's feasible, it's feasible to respect people's rights and also to have economic development. It is feasible and balance must be sought, and even if it is not created, we have been trying for decades. Our party, along with other parties, has been working on this issue for many years. Economic development has allowed us to have the welfare state we have today. That it's better? Of course, but that economic development is what makes it possible to have the social policies we have. And make no mistake, Mrs Agirre, we have always defended the same: all human rights for all people. And this connects him with the empathy with which he ended up, which, well, at least I leave him in paradox, coming from the bench from which he comes. I have not answered Mrs. Guanche before, when I was talking about the walls and comparing the wall of the port of Bilbao in the access to the ferry terminal with the walls of Trump in Mexico, with that of Ceuta, with that of Melilla... He's made a list of walls that, well, this is where we said he didn't do demagogy. I will not compare the security of a critical infrastructure, such as the port, a port, with a wall built in a certain place to separate two countries. I believe that Mr Damborenea has said this: the walls he mentions are so as not to allow entry, so that no one enters; they are border walls between countries. This wall, paradoxically, in any case would be in order not to leave, at least irregularly. We've said it before, we're talking about compliance with legality, and humanity. Both must be carried out, and they are not opposed. I do not know whether you understand that the one who is in favour of law enforcement and the construction of the wall to ensure security in a critical infrastructure is against human rights, and, to the contrary, the one who is against the construction of the wall is the greatest human rights defender. I have not been answered before what would contribute to these people, to the living conditions of these people, the non-construction of the wall. What benefits it would bring them, they haven't answered that. What is your approach to this problem? Mrs Agirre said that she was concerned about our mentality in this matter. Well, I... I'm sorry to tell you, but I'm returning your concern. It is clear that they are against the construction of a wall. Okay, it's legitimate, and we understand. But they want people to be allowed to move freely..., people, I don't say migrant people or refugees anymore, people (I understand that if migrants can, on equal rights, anyone can); people move freely through port facilities and travel freely, irregularly and without proper security guarantees, even putting, as we have said before, their lives at risk. In what port... Is that what you're talking about? I do not know in which ports or airports there is free transit of people. There will be restricted and controlled access control. And I believe that Mr Damborenea has also mentioned this: if these people, or anyone, decided to travel by plane, would they also be in favour of letting them crash at the airport and board planes destined for the United Kingdom, in conditions of insecurity, or of taking measures to try and prevent this from happening? A little responsibility, a little responsibility! We understand that, from the point of view of compliance with the regulations and from the point of view of the safety of the people who want to travel under these conditions, the institutions have an obligation to avoid it. And for those of us who are here, among us, our obligation, as we said before, is to do everything possible – and that is what the inter-institutional commission is working on – to ensure that those who are here are in decent human conditions. And respect for the human rights of these people has no doubt about that which will be guaranteed by this Government. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u43	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH Collect and together the middle-direction signed by the Podemos teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 28; the opponents, 46; white; 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u44	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Third point in theme list: "Motion, introduced by members of the Basque Group, Juana de Bengoechea Rasté, about the educational policy of the Eupilla team. Discipline and final resolution. It's the thrust time. It's Mrs. Bengoche's turn to introduce and defend her initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Look, we presented this document following an inquiry that our group made to the Education Advisor. Many subjects were discussed in that inquiry, but, of which I raised them, there was one who did not even mention it in his answer, in any of the shifts. And, therefore, we thought it appropriate to present this motion today. And the presentation of this motion, I'm sorry, is going to be a little arid, because it's going to be numbers, but it's the numbers that show us the panorama we have right now. See, in Euskadi, 38% of job offers require knowledge of English. The Autonomous Community of Madrid and we are at similar levels. And, according to Adecco, every year the percentage grows. In other words, we are talking about a fundamental tool in the field of education oriented towards the world of work. In addition, Mr. Iglesias Pimentel of the company Gizaker, whom you will know, on November 3, 2015 acted as a sociologist, presented his opinion as a sociologist in the youth presentation, and said literally: "Young people today know no English more than those of previous generations." This is what a well-known person said and who also makes this kind of study his working life. Let's see how we are in the education of people trained to teach in English. In public school only 13% of teachers are qualified to teach in English (they come to be about 2,800). In the concerted school, although they have more hours and are getting better results, they also have many more: only 14% of teachers are qualified to teach in English. And that percentage is for one reason, and it is that to give these classes in English they are required only level B1. If they were required level C1, as required for teachers to teach in Basque, the percentage would fall to 8%. I really regret that this exhibition is arid, but it is an exhibition of percentages, numbers and realities. Of the 740 places that came out at this year's OPE, which were for Children and Primary, only 57 went out for English. Only when we all know that it is advisable to learn, in our case that third language, as soon as possible, and in the rest of Spain in the age group of three to six years are giving English already sixty-five percent of the children. And we pulled out an OPE for teachers at those ages, in Infantile and Primary, and of 740 only 57 had English requirements. You'll tell me, "Why do you speak English when everyone speaks another language?". For we draw the map of what is studied in Spain regarding that second language, or third in our case, and the seventy-five percent of the children choose English, then it is followed by French, German and a very small percentage (which is about 1.5% Portuguese). But I'm going to refer to English because it's the one that's mostly chosen. And why is he chosen? Because it's the lingua franca these days. It is the language that gives us the most ability to move around the world. She and the Castilian, but, of course, the Castilian we have the luck – who do not have that luck other countries – of having it already incorporated into our own being. I imagine that the Finns, for example, have a problem, they will have to learn two languages, but we the French language that is the Spanish, and that unites us with hundreds of millions of people in the world, we have incorporated it. That's why I mean mostly English. In the next five years, we all know... Well, not anymore, because a year has passed: from last year to five more years, 3,800 teachers are going to retire, and it is a critical moment to strengthen, in the OPEs that come out to replace them, teachers who are qualified to teach in English. It's our concern, and we'll bring him here again and again. The European Union, through the recommendation of the European Parliament and the Council of 18 December 2006, stated that of all the competences necessary to move around the world, to communicate and to meet the challenges of a globalised world (which is not only globalised in economics: in society, in culture, in all fields), the second most important requirement (marked eight), the second most important requirement for all these young people was language skills. Knowledge of languages. And, due to this European awareness, at the end of 2012 the European Commission referred it to the Council, which assumed it (yes, I don't have the figure here, but assumed it), that by 2020 75% of ESO students should be enrolled in two foreign languages. In two, 75 %. I, the truth, am no longer going to stress this, because I believe that the need came above all for countries that had very minority languages (Finland, Norway, Czech), which really need two French languages. We, as we already have one of them, which is the Castilian, which is a treasure (which I do not know if it is sufficiently valued in this House, it is a treasure), because it is only with the learning of English that we could relate in this world that I think with 60%. We would have Mandarin Chinese, but Mandarin Chinese is not a French language, because it is spoken only in your country. We say that it is a frank language when spoken not only in our own country, but in others. Then we should already have 75% of students learning two foreign languages. We don't have it, but, well, since we already have the Castilian... But he gave us another requirement that does apply to us, and that is that, of those two languages that we should be learning, one of them, at the end of the ESO stage, at least half of the students, at least 50% of the students, should speak it at a B1 level. At least. That is to say, he should be able, if not to study, to have a fluidity, and to travel to other countries did not imply any linguistic border. So let's see how we do. In Europe, 47% of pupils have reached this level. The rest of Spain has reached 27. We have until 2020, it is not that we go exceptionally well either. But in Euskadi we don't give the data. We don't give the data. And the Euskadi School Council said – I open quotes – "That goal is far away." I close quotes. Gentlemen, aren't you tired of us in education going to the tail of everything, to the tail of everything? We have the latest results from our own evaluations, from IVEI. We're not going back. We have the assessments that this Russian agency has made (it has an acronym that I don't remember right now), that they put us back – this has come out a month ago – in line with everything. They're worse than PISA's. Two years later, they're worse than PISA's. Aren't you tired? Because our group is tired, disappointed and angry. And angry. And in such a basic tool to be able to walk around the world... And you may be thinking about economic globalization. No way! That there is a social globalization, there is a cultural globalization, there is even a globalization of human rights! Everyone who belongs to NGOs and has to travel around the world... What, for example, do Doctors Without Borders talk about when they go to a country where they work? An African country, for example. Then they'll probably speak in English! That is, globalization is not that monstrous capitalist thing. Today we are moving towards global citizenship in all aspects. And the truth is, we're already frankly tired. The 2016 State School Council report reveals that the Basque education system is far, far behind the rest in terms of language teaching, in the figures it gave them earlier. In the rest of Spain (they are superior), 81.9 of the three to six year olds are learning English (81.9 of the three to six year olds); in Euskadi we do not reach the average, we are in line. They are only behind us Catalonia, Andalusia and the Balearic Islands. In primary school, between the ages of six and twelve, in the rest of Spain the learning of English is widespread; the Basque public school is the number 11 of the seventeen autonomy; that is, we have ten autonomy..., it is the number 11, behind us there are only five. Do they not weary you, and weary you, and anger you with these data? If we add the concert to the sum we go up slightly: instead of having five behind, we have six; we go up a single step. But why do I make this difference between public school and concerted school here? For not to make public school worse, but because if there is a tool in society that allows social mobility, that in very gross words, and using the generic male – with permission from Elkarrekin Podemos – that guarantees that the son of a poor man is not condemned to be poor (that is social mobility), and that the son of a wealthy man has not secured the same status as his father, because he will have to compete... And what is the fundamental tool for producing such social mobility in a society? Education. The Basque public school should be much more endowed... not with money, I'm not talking about money, but much more endowed with the will to achieve that social mobility. I'm already running... I'm running out of time. I will explain a few more things to you in the following speech, and above all I will talk about Vocational Training, where the subject is almost more pressing, because the request for knowledge of the English language is even superior to those who graduate from a university. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mrs Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u47	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Partners. Today, again, in this case, with PP's initiative, we are discussing the language of the Basque classes, and, of course, we have been talking English. It's not the first time we've discussed this subject in the whole meeting, and it's probably not the last. In fact, and even then in PP's initiative, in March, we discussed the trieleal education by degrees in the education system and in general. As far as linguistic policy in education is concerned, Elkarrekin Podemos's position has not changed, and we continue to maintain the idea that linguistic models are exhausted. That is why we advocate the development and implementation of a trilingual model in the Basque classrooms. But, as we said in March, we do not consider that we should be the ones to mark what this third language should be, but that we should give the choice to the centres that they decide the linguistic project most in line with their particular reality. The educational system is now organized based on three different languages: A pattern, which has the language of communication of youth, except Euchara and Basque Literature, which offers the example of B, some lessons in Spanish and others in eucalyptic; and D the model, which uses the euca as a language of communication, with a Spanish lesson. According to the data of the last report prepared by the Euskadi School Council, model D covers most of the pupils of all non-university educational stages except vocational training. And the percentage, the higher and the more recent, are the enrolment options of the families themselves. Conversely, model A receives very small percentages in the different stages of non-university education, except in Vocational Training, which is 74%. To date, it was considered that, depending on the model in which the linguistic results were studied, they varied. However, the results of recent evaluations have shown that this is not the case. It has been found that the language model system does not work. In fact, more or less a year ago, the Education Adviser, Cristina Uriarte, presented in this Parliament the report of the last diagnostic evaluation, and stated that even model D does not guarantee linguistic competence in Basque, a language which, in our opinion, should be the central axis of the trilingual model. She also said – and I quote literally – that "it cannot be taken as the sole responsibility of the school, but it also has to do with what happens on the street and at home." And while we agree that the school is not the only space and time for learning and using the Basque language, we do believe that it is the responsibility of this Government to take the necessary steps to ensure that the use of the Basque language among students also takes place in the school environment, that is, outside the classroom itself. In this sense, the results of the recently presented Arrue Project confirm that, despite the fact that the school is the place that most euskaldunizes young people, it has limits, and it does not reach everywhere. Thus, although the percentage of hours in which the euskera is used by primary school room students has grown three points in four years (from 56.4 to 59.4), and 2.4 in second of the ESO (from 39.9 to 42.3), their use with peers in the lower yard until 40.9 in primary school and at 23.6 in secondary school, with adolescence. Hence, it must be remembered that according to the law, Euskalion is obliged to the students, in social order, at the end of their necessary education, to make sure that they have the real choice of practical and youthful knowledge. Now, as we demonstrate reality and investigations, the present system of A, B, and D patterns does not fulfil this duty. There is no doubt that there is a need to make changes to the language models of compulsory education; changes with the aim of ensuring that the majority of pupils acquire basic skills, and that their mastery of Basque and Spanish is internationally acceptable and plausible in language policies. It is true that there are a number of variables that are more important than others in determining the achievement of the objectives, but, comparatively, our fundamental differentiation with other educational systems is the division in our system between public and concerted, or subsidized private networks, and, within each network, the three linguistic models A, B and D. The distribution of 50% in the networks has remained unchanged in recent years; language models have evolved to the present situation. Compulsory public education is based on model D, regardless of the linguistic situation of the regions and the rate of euskaldunisation of their parents, and model A and model B decline and become marginal, both in terms of results of linguistic competence and in basic skills. And what's the cause? Essentially, the accumulation of aspects related to ISEC (socio-economic and cultural index), the high immigration rates in these models and the shortage of motivation and innovation. On the contrary, concerted education is homogeneously distributed between models D (40%) and B (40%), more in line with the socio-linguistic reality of the country, leaving model A (10%) associated with elite centres, which also decline. We also think it appropriate to rescue one of the conclusions of the trial process of the trilingual education framework (MET process) developed between the 2011 and 2014 courses, in which, in the meantime, it was contrasted that the decision to extend the number of hours of English as a language of teaching and learning in the curriculum does not significantly affect the results in Basque and Spanish. In other words, the results in euskera reading comprehension of the students of the experimental groups of MET-1 and MET-2, of primary education and ESO, showed that their participation in the experimentation had not negatively affected their results in this competition, although the MET process confirmed that the students of the groups that expanded the presence of English in the curriculum showed a competitive level in this language significantly higher than those of the control groups that only imparted compulsory English. Having said that, the amendment to the whole of the motion tabled by the PP focused on the necessary development of a strategic plan to carry out the necessary measures in order to overcome the current framework of linguistic models and begin to move towards the development of a trilingual model from the linguistic educational project of each centre, within common minimums and with the Basque as axis. We also urged the Department of Education to support educational centres and help them design their own language project, always taking into account the objectives to be achieved at the end of each mandatory stage. And thirdly, we proposed and urged the Department of Education to promote an Irale in English for the faculty, with the aim of reaching the 35% quota qualified to teach in English in a progressive way. As you know, we have signed a transaction, but we want to focus on the fact that we cannot allow the fossilization of language models, so from Elkarrekin we can bet on a new linguistic framework that adapts to the new reality and responds to the demands of today's society. We bet on a trilingual model with the euskera as a vertebrate axis and elaborated from a linguistic educational project of each center; a model that ensures that at the end of compulsory education the student is competent to communicate in euskera as well as in Castilian, both orally and in writing. We could talk about reaching a B1 level for the third language, and a B2 in Basque. Third language doesn't have to be English. Each school should have a right to decide what language it wants to cultivate. Each school ought to have an opportunity to make its own language project, always considering what ends it will have to accomplish at the end of the stage. We are also clear that learning any language must be based on linguistic immersion, i.e. not learning the language, but learning things in that language. We believe that immersion is the methodology that has been shown to be effective in achieving the stated objectives. In short, from Elkarrekin We believe that the really important thing is to move towards schools without segregation, neither of a social nor linguistic nature. We are clear that we do not want educational or linguistic policies to exclude them; that is why the message is clear: not to linguistic models, but to the right to decide in educational institutions the linguistic project of its own centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u49	Thank you, President. Well, today we have a debate on a motion tabled by the PP, in theory by the government's educational policy, but in reality there is no such tour of education policy, but it focuses mainly on English, something I want to thank Mrs Bengoechea, because you know that the Basque Socialists are very comfortable in this debate on the teaching of English. Because it is true that there are other languages and not just English, but it is also true that this language is vital in an internationalized world like ours. Year after year we have reiterated the need to deepen and make progress in this area. We cannot afford to retreat or stand still in the face of a globalized world in which the rule of the English language is more and more common, more extensive and necessary, because the elderly would undoubtedly be our students, and hence our society. We Socialists also have a long way to go on this subject, and we can talk with conviction about it. As you well know, it was with the government of Patxi López, and with Isabel Celaá as Education Advisor, when the educational framework of trilingualism began. And it began when the economic situation was not precisely the best, nor the desirable, and yet it was bet by trilingualism, as well as by the Basque, putting in place a system of Basque educational system euskaldunization. Not only did we launch the educational framework of trilingualism, but we already promoted initiatives in the holiday period of the students, to improve their language skills in English, scholarships were opened abroad, and summer courses were also given. We carried out projects to improve the level of English teachers, to improve teacher training, but they were not only projects aimed at English teachers, but also involved teachers who taught other subjects, to increase their knowledge and competence, to achieve a leading and exemplary public education in the end. English, without a doubt – you said so too – is the language that will open the doors of the world today to students; it is the language used to create and spread knowledge, the common language for all of Europe, as well as being the cross-cutting competence for a job. The level of English is insufficient, it is true, and it is proving to be increasingly important for development in Europe and the world, also for access to higher education and research. In education, it is true that nothing can be consecrated for life, because it is progressing, as is technology and new knowledge, but English will remain a basic and essential competence. Families, perceptions, attitudes have changed over time, but it is true that families want to continue studying in trilingual. Much has been done for English, we have been building and we want to keep moving forward, but with the euskera as its axis. Our Basque educational system has a bilingual character, because the two co-official languages are our own, and we have to improve them, and bilingual pupils, despite what many may think, have more facilities to learn a third language than other pupils, regardless of which third language. We need to set up a bilingual society with a good knowledge of our two official languages and a good mastery of English as an international language, because it is the language of science, business, the world of work, the language of the international market of this globalised world. The Basque system has sufficient capacity and maturity to take steps without taking any risks. We already have extensive experience in bilingual and trilingual education; we just need to move forward and improve it, because it is true that it still has a wide margin of improvement. And an example is the euskera's advance. It has been and continues to be essential in Basque education. As generations have passed, there has been more knowledge of the Basque. This high rate of bilingualism among young people is mainly due to an effort made by the entire Basque educational system as a whole to promote the knowledge and use of this language, but always guaranteeing the right of free linguistic choice of parents. And it is true that we must continue to improve in Basque, its knowledge and its use, as in English. We want a bilingual society that can normally and as a way of life use both official languages and languages, but that knows how to use English correctly and can be developed in any situation and part of the world. And that still, unfortunately, is far from being achieved. The three languages (Castilian, Basque and English) should be used as tools of the learning process, as a subject and as a means of transmission at the same time. All pupils must have access to all languages, regardless of their socio-economic level, thus equalising all socio-linguistic gaps. The impetus for English must be so that everyone can have access to English at their educational centre, that everyone can have international scholarships or stays of English language immersion outside their income. Because every student should have the possibility and the right to have regular, competent, assessed and widespread access to that third language. An English bet is needed, a proposal that can be generalized to all educational institutions, regardless of the margin of decision that each centre obviously has. A broad and flexible framework in which, on the basis of common conditions and characteristics, each school can build its own trilingual educational project. Each centre must be given its capacity to decide and organize itself, always guaranteeing families the right to decide the educational offer. But there is also a need to improve teacher training, which at the end of the day will teach our students. We have tabled an amendment with the Basque Nationalist Party and we have finally reached a compromise with the group of Elkarrekin Podemos, which I believe contains enough of these statements that I have previously made: an English bet is made, a teacher's training is made, the autonomy of the centres is discussed, and obviously there is also talk of an adequacy of work profiles within each centre with greater idiomatic skills. It is true that I regret that we have not been able to join the People's Party, but in any case I believe that the agreement we have reached at this point seems to be going to receive very broad support, which unfortunately did not happen when the Socialists put forward this project, which we are glad that it has been opening up the way over the years.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u50	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians. Dear madam, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u51	Thank you, Chief. Well, as for the initiative we're discussing, or as to the starting-point, our team seems to think that this initiative is short-handed. It is allowed to speak of English, but to learn, or teach English, is to be examined, or developed in a larger context or circumstance; nay, even when the dispute is planned on a people, with two official languages of its own nature. This context is to be considered, and not in any other context. That's why I want to remind you of a discussion that had been here a few months ago. For we had a vast and important agreement, a positive, realistic, and constructive agreement, which responded to the wishes of a vast majority of society, and received the essential elements for us. In the year 2017, no one doubts about eloquence. It's totally the opposite. But the Jestric Party is clearly told that every step that is made towards eloquence must be built on eloquence, and not on the side of eloquence. The objective of multilingual projects should be to achieve multilingual euskaldune pupils. In other words, pupils who at the end of compulsory schooling have real competence in both Basque and Spanish, as well as a sufficient level in English or another foreign language. The achievement of this objective requires that multilingual linguistic projects should be based on the socio-linguistic situation of each place, that the profile of the linguistic projects of each centre should take into account and adapt to the circumstances and characteristics of the environment. In addition, we believe that the euskera should be the backbone of the projects, since the euskera is experiencing a situation of social imbalance that needs to be compensated. The proponent group called on the initiative to ensure that, at the end of compulsory schooling, young women and young women had real competence in English. That would be fantastic. But let's be realistic. To learn and have a real competence in a language, whatever it is, it is essential to practice it, and to practice it it is necessary to have spaces and opportunities, beyond the strictly academic sphere. They will agree with me that this is not easy, in the case of English, in our environment. Let us therefore set realistic targets. And Mrs. Bengoechea told us about the kindness of other educational systems, of all the hours devoted to English... all from a familiar language, one, the Castilian. He talked about all the hours devoted to English here and there, and it turns out that the EPI report says that the Spaniards do not improve on the knowledge of English and down three places in the ranking, with a score of 56 out of 100, compared to the 59 points they got last year. It turns out that throughout Spain, with a language most of the time, and with so many hours of English, it turns out that instead of moving forward they are going backwards. And of us, who in theory do nothing and do so badly, and who start from two official languages, that same report says: "Euskadi occupies the first place in the state ranking in English, above Spain and the European average": Basque Country, 61.94; then Navarra comes, with 61.28 (I remember that these two – I told Mr Semper once in a similar debate–, the two have two official languages), and now more back come Madrid, Canary Islands, Balearic Islands, Galicia, Andalusia, Extremadura, Murcia... All this you've told us. In the political proposition of the "Euctral Party" the language has a particular place, because it must be a fundamental principle in the educational policy of today and tomorrow, but besides the development of the principle which ought to mark the course of the system, the Jeltarian Party has also made particular enterprises. And what do we say? He proposes also to encourage eloquence in the sphere of education; the study of foreign language; the preparation of the language and language of the professors, especially as they are integrated and integrated to the treatment of languages, the burning of fields for social support inside and out of the room, and in its default use in the entertainment and communication fields of young men; the establishment of language in foreign languages, in the language of which they give perfect lessons for teachers. And that bet we're making was a bright reflection on the government program introduced by Eucomunion, and that program gets precise and precise commitments about school and language. For to advance in eloquence answers to the desire of a great majority of society, and at the same time to make one step further in quality, and to make one step forward. What does that program say? On the one hand, it is the commitment to promote eloquence, based on the social reality of each area within the language of education. As far as English is concerned, it is proposed to increase the preparation of the students. For this purpose, in certain schools which give occasion to his eloquent project, a lesson is proposed, at least, to begin in English from the fourth grade of the First Education, by augmenting the language. And, on the other hand, the professor in mind to make it possible has a clear matter: the professors who are able to teach in different languages are essential to the euscal educational system. Hence it is necessary that the professors should be set up in the language, and especially in the preparation of the language's doctrine, integrated with the treatment of languages, and connected with the integral. We have attempted to reflect all this in the correction we have made to the action; First of all, we're asking MUGREY to open the social projects to all the Basque schools. These projects will have the following characteristics: the euphorium must be the axis of the process of education, and they will introduce significant improvements and improvements in the preparation of an English or other foreign language, and they will consider the confession of the social language and social reality in each area. The object of these projects will be to obtain eucalyponic citizens, who, at the end of their necessary school, all the students may have a real capacity for eucalypine and Spanish, and a good deal of rank in some other English or foreign language. On the other hand, we were wondering if you'd send them a lecture on the teachers' language and what you're talking about. And finally, we asked him to take care of the necessary changes on his worklists to adapt the language reserves of his jobs by degrees to the requirements of the language projects of the schools. The goal is to include professors who are able to teach English besides specialities. On this last point, the incorporation of teachers, in our amendment, and also in the compromise amendment that we have signed together with the Socialist Group and the Elkarrekin Podemos Group, the Government is urged to analyse the changes in job relationships that are necessary to progressively adapt the language requirements of jobs, taking into account the needs arising from the linguistic projects of the centres, in order to make progress in the incorporation, as you said, of teachers trained to teach in English, in addition to those of the specialty. This wording is more ambitious, more concrete, and goes beyond what the Group of the European People's Party proposed in its own initiative, as it details a concrete measure that will enable future public job offers to offer places requiring language training in English. Beyond teachers and specialist teachers, it is possible to assess the knowledge of foreign languages as merit. Thus it was, for example, in the last OPE, the one concerning the Body of Teachers, which valued foreign language knowledge as merit. To take one more step and incorporate it as a requirement it is necessary to modify the RPTs, and that is the proposal we make: to progressively modify the RPTs, taking into account the needs arising from the linguistic projects of each centre. That's the way to ensure that people who go into the system... As you said very well, in the coming years we will see a fairly large number of people who are going to take the path of retirement, and in this incorporation of new teachers into the system we understand that it is essential that they are already trained and trained to be able to teach English, but also other subjects in English. As I said, we signed a middle course, the Socialists, together the groups of Podemos and Eukbertarian patriots. It is an important and positive arrangement, which takes one step further in the process of progressing in eloquence, and therefore demands a favourable vote for those who have not applied to the promoter of action and to those who have no correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u52	Thank you, Mrs. News. A group that hasn't run any corrections. Deputy EH Bilbu. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u53	Mrs. President, good morning. The People's Party calls for the necessary measures to ensure that the largest number of young people at the end of compulsory schooling have real competence in English. Euskal Herria Bildu aspires and has the ambition to implement measures so that all young people, not only the largest number, at the end of schooling have real competence in the two official languages (i.e. in Basque and Spanish), and, of course, in English or other foreign languages, or in two languages, as Europe recommends. Our aim is to be successful with language treatment adapted to the current social complexity, without discrimination, and taking into account that our own language, the Basque language, is a minority language. We also need to bear in mind that the current model segregates, affects and conditions performance. The People's Party also calls for future OPEs to ensure the incorporation of a percentage of teachers trained to teach in English, in addition to those with a specialty. Euskal Herria Bildu works to make future OPEs efficient and quantitatively qualitative to reduce eventuality, so that the centers have stability to build quality linguistic educational projects, and to this end to equip us with the best and best professionals, who are able to accompany in the integral, emotional and cognitive development of the student. And finally, he asked the department for a strategic plan to promote English learning, when we needed to renew the educational framework and promote educational policies adapted to the new times, that would be able to respond to complex reality, cohesive and fulfil the balancing role between citizens. If we do that, if we do that, I'm sure we'll get improvements in Basque, in mathematics, in reading comprehension and also in English. To finish up, some facts and some tips. Data. Another speaker has mentioned it before, and we spoke of it in a previous discussion: According to the report EPI, the Basques in the Spanish State, the EAE and the Naphians, have both the highest degree of English in the state, in comparison with the Germans and the Austrians. That's from an international evaluation report. On the 7th of May, 2014, there was also a major consequence of the evaluation of the trieleal frame, and the more we know in both official languages, the better for the study of the third language. I don't know if any other evaluations have been made since 2014. Even the results of the evaluation diagnosis are significant. The ISEI-IVEI data is also significant. Euskar's ability is down. During fourth school level %4.8 down, and the second level of DBH is down by 2%. And if we go to the PISA, even in PISA, the results of evaluation are confirmed. And we see that patterns only condition the results of the students in languages, but also their other results, along with the indicators of social index, economic, and culture. So we think it's important to define language standard in our education system. And another, last, January 1st, 2017, which was given by Cambridge Universality Pressek: Spain is the lowest degree in Europe, which has the least share in English. The notes. First abortion: It is essential to reflect and to adapt to new times the treatment of language in the education system. And, frankly, we must contract the ends of each group, and oppose them to general interests, to the ends which we ought to possess as society and people. I mean, is everyone's goal to get a Basque society? Must the goal be in theory that the two languages which have the same picture, and which are official, should be properly acquired when education is over? I mean, in theory, because in practice two official languages don't have the same status. Are we betting on all the teams here? And besides two official languages, do we gamble to get at least one foreign language? English, French or German, because perhaps in Gipuz, on the frontier with North Basque People, it may be interesting, instead of learning English, to promote French, or whatever it is. Let's go. it must be observed that eupchara is a diminution of language, and that it is in perpetual interaction with the hegemony of languages. Plus, at the time of that globalized, virtual, digital world, this requires special attention. Globalization, as you have well said, is not only economical, social, which also affects languages, so the cradle demands positive discrimination. Third plunger: the treatment which should be attained cannot only consider schools, rooms, interiors, and legal hours, but must also consider the world around the education system, the products, the sports, the digital networks, the virtual world, the products which young people consume. Fourth comer: Opened in the world, of course, but being a part of a community and a people, we ought to have recourse to the education of the citizens who will represent and feel it: cohesion and inclusion. In the previous legislation our party brought a legal proposition, a flexible proposition, adapted to the reality of all the social areas of the region, with the language project on the axis. We called him a cast of divest because we thought we had already hit the top, and besides, we have to go through the pattern of the reaper. We didn't succeed. We didn't succeed, and we couldn't get the discussion we were looking for. This time, we've asked for a show of experts to open the discussion, because it seems important to us to hear it, and then we've suggested that the local experts, internationals, and later here in the Basque Country, produce different projects, with the intention of making an contribution at this very moment, on account of the charity of education. We think, in the first place, it would be nice to hear. We're open if the other teams want to bring in other experts or others, we're ready to listen to what we need to hear. For here discussion is not language, nor language. Disputation is not the language of education, or education, but the kind of popular language we would teach, and the way, the example, we would set up for it. And for us, this is what we were going to say today. We didn't file correction. What we would ask in the middle is to vote on one side, and on the other hand, to vote at the same time on the second and fourth. the point. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. We'll take the answers turn. Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u55	Well, I have listened carefully, as it could not be otherwise, to the interventions of those who preceded me, and the first thing I've missed is that all the interventions... perhaps less that of Mr. Pastor, to a lesser extent, but all have been putting themselves in a defensive position on the Basque. Moreover, Mrs Macazaga I believe that, of her ten minutes, she has only spoken of English in the last three minutes. And I think it was she who said that in the pilot experience that the introduction of English did not threaten the results in Basque and Spanish. I had not brought that data, but it is a real fact: pilot experiences have already been made, and the introduction of English does not threaten the results either in Spanish or in Basque. That is why I have truly missed that almost all the people who have intervened have been to defend the Basque. I'm sorry, at least it wasn't my intention to try that! I was talking about English. English. Anyway, let's look at the sources now. The sources I have used to give the data I have given are those of the Council of the State and those of the Council of Euskadi (Council of Education, both of the State and of Euskadi). I remember being told – and I am willing to accept it – that the Basque Country was one of the most English speaking places. But we're not talking about that. Why aren't we talking about that? Because we are talking about education, and I have no doubt that a society like ours, which has a medium-high, if not high, ISEC (a socio-economic and cultural index), invests families their own money for young people to learn English. I have no doubt about that. I've done it, and I think everyone has done it to nothing that has any concern. But they haven't learned it at school. They haven't learned it in school. They have learned this by going to an academy, examining themselves with the First and making real efforts. I mean, I'm sure you speak enough English here, but we're not talking about that, but how we give English in education. And the data is the data: only 13% of teachers, and 14% of those in concert, and as long as we talk about level B2, not C1 (with C1 we drop to 8%). And these are data that are in the reports of the Euskadi School Council and the Spanish School Council. Now, who speaks more English? Well, it could be! Come on, I'm sure, because my kids at school haven't learned it, but I paid for private lessons. Then you've been talking all the time about "The Proponent Group Asks...". I am sorry, it is not the proposing group that proposes: it is the European Union that is asking for it. We have not asked for anything that the European Union has not already asked for. Why don't we vote yes to yours? Well, look, for two words, and a couple of concepts. Because you say "... a real competition, both in Basque and Spanish, as well as a sufficient level in English or another foreign language." This "sufficient" level is insufficient for us. It would have to be more than 50 %, with the level at least B1. What other sentence? The phrase of gradually adapting the RPTs to any demands. I believe that this is one of the cases in which the offer must be advanced to demand. Because many schools – which we agree with what you say here – will not be able to do so if there are no teachers available. First there will have to be teachers available, so that schools are encouraged to make a linguistic project. And then there's a concept... You here talk about training, which is certainly capital, but, look, so I can talk about FP. Do you know, for example, that training courses to teach English or English in the FP are offered only to those who have a stable position? Considering that 40% (is one of the highest) of teachers in vocational training (and I'm talking about Ikaslan, and it's also a complaint we have about them)... 40% of FP teachers, at least in public training, do not receive offers to train in English because they do not have stability in the position. It is only received by 60% who do have stability. There is much to be improved, but for these three reasons we have not been able to join your amendment, although in other things we agree. Eskerrik asko, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. There's no need to talk with Podemus together. Basque Socialists, yes... Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u57	Yes, briefly. I did not even intend to intervene in this second round, but, perhaps because of what I stated earlier, when back in 2010 the socialists promoted the subject of trilingualism it is true that they did not receive us precisely with palms, there were reticences and many resistances, probably because of a misunderstanding of having to defend the Basque with respect to English, which is a dichotomy that I would ask you to get rid of the speeches. There is no dichotomy between the bilingualism we have in Euskadi and the learning of a third language, in this case English. The data point to the opposite: the fact that Basque students have to learn Basque and Spanish strengthens their language skills to learn a third language. Therefore, not only are they not incompatible, but not only must there be no suspicion of the teaching of a third language such as English, which is absolutely necessary, but it also reinforces the teaching of Spanish and Basque. But, without saying it clearly, I have seen in some speeches a certain reluctance that the teaching of a third language, in this case English, could cause a delay in the application of real bilingualism, especially with regard to Basque. And that's not true, and I think we should get rid of that resistance. And I say this at a point of discussion where I also want to highlight that it has been a constructive debate, away from apriorisms as we have seen on other occasions, and that it would seem to me that it would be important that the agreement we have reached, which sufficiently contains a broad range of views, could, if not totally, also receive the support of the People's Party, as will also be partially received by Bildu. Because it seems to me that it would be important for us to come out of this plenary with the greatest possible consensus on the need for this society, for the Basque educational world, to really bet on real trilingualism. Because that is not going to harm the euskera (all the opposite: it is going to strengthen it), and above all it is going to substantially improve the opportunities of our children.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u58	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u59	Thank you, Chief. Mrs. Ubera said: 'tis not dispute, but language or language. I completely agree with that statement. I think that's a fact of my involvement. Mrs. Bengoechea says we come with a defensive attitude. Not at all. The only thing I have told you is that it is legitimate to speak English, we are willing to speak English, but what I have asked you to do is to do it from our context, from our environment; that we live in a country with two official languages, and it is from that reality that we have to start building multilingualism. Our multilingualism begins with bilingualism. And he was telling us about the need to learn two foreign languages. I would like to remind you that the European Network for the Promotion of Linguistic Diversity (NPLD) recommends that in those places where there are two official languages, even more so if one of them is a minority and a minority, what is being talked about is, instead of one plus two, two plus one, which is not the same. Much has been said about B2, B1, that is to say, the European framework for languages. Oraine bathe lehen, behin bathe gehiagotan azaldu dugu. The European framework for languages is a framework that is not intended for education systems; it is a reference, but it cannot be the only one for the preparation of an educational curriculum, especially for two reasons. On the one hand, because it is a framework designed for adults, not for boys and girls, and, on the other, because that framework has been designed for foreign languages. In this case I refer to the mention made by Mrs Ubera. It is therefore important to have it as a reference, but of course it cannot be the only reference, nor the only objective. There's also been mentioned a model of discipline, as well as that of Podemos together. Euskadin, in fact, there's a pattern of diverging, complete or partial nowadays. Euskadin's thousands of kids learn the language they don't have in their homes because their families have decided it. So wait, there are thousands and thousands of children going into the world now Euskkadin. Then again we have spoken of a single example: un model, unúnico model. The only example, whether it be eloquent or not, does not exist. All examples are different in place, if we look to local circumstances, and the intensity given to each language. That's why I want to highlight the importance of the schools' language projects again. The use of eucalyptus to be excluded from the school is connected with it, because the school can't do everything. Eta Bengoechea andreak berriz esaten zuen, erdibideko zuzenketa ez badesteko daukan arazoetako beat'sufficient' hitza zela atzerriko hizkuntzaren kasuan, ingelesaren kasuan. Berriro diot, to learn a language is fundamental, in addition to the academic schedule, of what is learned in school, its social use, and today, here in Vitoria-Gasteiz, in Euskadi, there are usually no options to have a usual social use in English. That is why we were referring to that issue. And about what you do or what you don't do, but I'm sure it's a clever bet for talk. If we look at the budgets in 2017, there are so many and so many of the initiatives that relate to eloquence: To plunge into English, to be trained in the language of professors, eloquence, even in the Henzical professions, express projects in public schools, all this in 2017s, and everything else in 2018. It's the lehen he was forced to. Bengoechea andreak said it can't be progressive. What cannot be done is that, without modifying the RPT and the language requirements set out in the RPT, the Basque Government publishes a public offer of employment with language requirements. Therefore, if you want to see an OPE requiring candidates to be English, we will have to amend the RPTs in advance. That is what we put forward in paragraph 4 of the compromise. And as I have seen that I was interested in Vocational Training and mentioned, as an example of the commitment of this Basque Government and this department to multilingualism, I would like to recall that in October we could have information that "170 foreign language conversation assistants are starting their work this week in Basque classrooms. The Department of Education increases the number of conversation assistants in charge of this course from 115 to 160." This is in Vocational Training. If we look at the draft law on vocational training, which is being discussed in this House, we can find a complete chapter on official languages and foreign languages in vocational training. And I will read you a short text: "In Euskadi, multilingualism in Vocational Training will take place in a trilingual way, in which vocational training courses will be given in the two official languages and another foreign language, which will be primarily English, with the aim of achieving a basic and sufficient capacity in oral and written communication in the specific professional field concerned. In each centre, the structure of this language model and the hourly distribution of the three languages will take into account their linguistic project, their environment, the circumstances surrounding each professional area covered by the training process." See if we have commitment and are consistent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u60	Thank you, Mrs. News. I don't think EH Collect should be involved... So, since the discussion is over, we'll go to the vote. First, we'll vote for the original text of Mrs. De Bengoechea Strasde's motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 9; the opponents are 65; the whites are 0,0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u61	So, not allowed original text. We're going to vote together with Podemos, Euscalia Sociists, and Eubertarians, with the middle-point, 1st, and 3rd... There's no problem voting for points, is there? We'll vote for number one and number three. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; the abstainments are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u62	So, the 1st and 3 points have been accepted. Next, we vote number two and number four. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 47; the opposites, 18; the whites, 0; the abstainments are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u63	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Forth point on the theme list: "Mution, introduced by Ubeka Ubera Aranz and EH Collectors, is about to take on the attitude of the schools which guarantee sexual segregation. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Ubera Aranzeta has the word to introduce and defend initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u64	Good morning again. We have a bad habit of classing people: fast, stupid, hardworking, lazy, beautiful, ugly, men, women... And besides classing, we attribute to every one certain values, and connect them with certain spaces, so that we build stereotypes, and give each different parts. The daily pictures, the pictures that reality gives us... They're terrible, and they're beginning from this house. Look, this photo is a mess. [[He showed a picture.]] From a peer-like view of equality, this photograph is monstrous. I'm not gonna fit in on political ratings, but it's terrible. The president of the legislature, the woman, the president of the government, the man. I don't know if it's a coincidence or how long we have to keep going like this. In all the teams the secretary-makers do what they do: Women or men? And it's not a coincidence, ladies and gentlemen. It's not a coincidence. It's the result of a culture of education. Sometimes we are more conscious, sometimes less conscious, but we do our own actions, repeat and transmit them. And with our ways, we're a model. Besides school, in all the social spaces that surround us, because of value, manners, culture, and relations of power, we act in one way or another, and because we build such society. But then, to justify our conduct, we have a fine and extensive theory, and we make excellent thesis, such a thesis as Mrs. Uriart did the other day. And in a word it was his thesis: You know, it's just fun, but it's fun, the government doesn't have the will. And what did he do for that? He reviewed all the legislation and in it, revered all the criteria of equality that were received in the law, and then, to justify the political desire of funkhabing, to justify the public money to the schools that distinguish students from sex, as an excuse for Europe. What model of education, then, are we to promote from public powers? What kind of policies do we prestify in the budget? Beyond the theory, what do we do in practice? We often say that it is the foundation of an educational society. 21st. we do not wish to assist in public money the schools which distinguish students for sex. Is there any reason for a class to enter boys and be girls in another class? Is there any pedagogical reason? Is there a psychological reason? Why do you need to help the schools that do that? The answer is, there's no reason, it's best for everyone to be in class together and to learn each other. You know, Mrs Harper told us that's something you're interested in, and that's another for the government's will. I really did not know until the previous day that there was such a difference between interest and will, but I have seen, with the correction of EAJ and PSE, that struck me with astonishment. It's a shame enough in the century. Say in a word you're on behalf of equality. And practice? And what is done in practice is stereotypes, roles, schools that encourage klasism to finance with public money, with a pretext for law. And, by the way, I've given up all the law, I've been warned that public money is directed to these schools to justify what we've been talking about, the Decret of 293/ 1987. And there I have not found, I have not found a content, judgment, which obliges him to do so. But I've found other things, all right? 12. I shall literally read to you what has been received in the article: "The lessons which attend the necessity of schooling, or respond to the inhabitants who are weak in their social appearance, will have the privilege of arriving in the treaty." And he doesn't do that, because this government doesn't do that. By the way, I'm interested in applying the principle of education for an education system in the EAE, which is what I've received in our proposal at the first point. In the words of nature, I agree, I agree, and my education must assist us in transforming the relations of power among the students. In the words of the art, the contents of life which are based on the equality of sex and the respect of multiplicity, will be included, and I agree. The question is, Mrs. Greart: Is it possible to work on a partnership based on equality by the agency of the classification of individuals? That's the question. Is it possible that this isn't an outcast education? How can it be possible to fix conflicts or to prevent female violence in schools where sex is a separation? Where do we place the other different characteristics of genus? Where will we place cys man, cis-woman, non-binarian identities, intersexuals, transsexuals, transgenerouss, queer... Where are we gonna put all these? Can you tell me? Is it compatible to help with money the schools that distinguish students from students for sex and to develop them in the same way as a member of the community? Is it compatible? What is stronger than this: Talls or practises? Actions themselves? What's wrong with him? Ah! One more question: Is that a democratic school that distinguishes it for sex? Is it plurality? Is it exclusive? So, what need does this government have to keep helping the schools that separate students from sex for money? Someone's going to have to explain to me how much he needs it. From a ethical point of view, it doesn't make any sense. From a view of community based on equality, there is no sense. For the transformation of the relationships, it's not the way. So, what's back there? Can somebody explain what's behind it? And I don't think I'm worth answering the other day, that a separate education model isn't a divested, if we respect the principle of the equality of the two sex students. You will forgive me, but we are not speaking of the case of a positive discriminating, but this is a violation of the principle of equality from the principle of principle of sufficient equality, because the class of persons in different spaces instructs men in different values, and consequently impels certain specific relations of power. And so we can continue building a society of concrete patterns. The separation of students from sex makes them increase sexism and increase stereotypes. And that's the name of the article in Science, if you haven't read it, "La pseboudiciencia de la scoracion por sexos." It's not because we say so. There's an incredible material for you. So if the public school does work to finish stereotypes, and the other schools we've just mentioned increase stereotypes and sexism, it's not normal to give public money, is it? I don't know, at least that's what my logic says. Another example, Mrs. Greart, and the rest: Do you imagine that two million instimating in a campaign to stop smoking health departments and that Mrs. Tapia would continue the commercial scholarships? For example. I mean, on the one hand, does the Health Department make up an investment to stop smoking, and on the other the Tapiak helps the people who produce tobacco, produce and sell it? At this period when the public school suffers restrictions, it cannot be justified either morally or pedagogically or scientifically or scientifically, in order to help with public money the schools which dissected for sex. It can't be. That's why it's not fair to take money from public budgets for those few schools that apply sexual intercourse. We must prepare children to live and work in a mixed world. We all proclaim multiplicity, put multiplicity in value, co-operation... So why do we need to give up? "Por qué que ayudar a los colegios que sexos, cuando nuntra sociad no debe ser una socied seregada?" Or is that the world we want?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u66	Thank you, President. To make it clear from the outset, we socialists are not in favour of sexual segregation that occurs in concerted schools, which fortunately are less and less. We are not in favour of discrimination either by sex, race, culture or any other reason whatsoever. That is why, in our amendment, tabled jointly with the Basque Nationalist Party, we urge the Department of Education, which is responsible for this subject, to comply with the existing rules on educational concerts in order to guarantee the freedom of education of the various projects offered at the educational centres in Basquedi. You will tell me: "It is obvious, the department is being told to comply with the law, which on the other hand is what it has to do." We also call for an education that contributes to the integral development of the person, apart from gender stereotypes and roles, the rejection of all forms of discrimination and the guarantee of academic and professional guidance that is not biased by gender. Because the important thing is the education that our students receive, training them with the greatest possible guarantees, and we cannot bias their education from children because it can have a negative impact on their educational development or human relations. The learning of human relations, of equality between girls and boys, men and women, is lost. Education should be in values, inclusive, cross-cutting, and contribute to the integral development of the person. Hospitals are not required for men and women, or private universities for men and women, so there should be no segregation in the classrooms by gender in the concerted schools. In addition, Decree 236/2015 of 22 December, which establishes the curriculum for basic education and is implemented in the Basque community, establishes a guarantee for education by rejecting any discrimination. Students "are entitled to receive basic education (primary education and compulsory secondary education) in the public education service centres in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. This right is guaranteed by the Education Administration, in compliance with the precept of the universal right to education as the holder of public institutions, and by the social initiative, the holder of private concerted centres". On the basis of the admission regulations, educational institutions must promote equal opportunities in access to the educational institution, offering the same educational possibilities. You have to know how to work with differences, and make it a benefit for students. They have to learn and we have to teach them to define their identities, normalize roles, functions, times and spaces, but together (I agree with you, Mrs Rebeka), because in school there are more areas where they will relate, as it will be in recreation, in the dining room or in out-of-schools, and the sooner they learn to live together the better it will be for their development. Inequality should not be generated or developed in coexistence, and less in education, because that is where students begin to relate to other boys and girls, and they learn that none of them are equal, there are no two equal boys or two equal girls, but they should have full equality in the face of the educational offer. In democratic countries, public budgets should not assume a model of education that hinders equality as part of identity, because children must receive the same didactic references, the same values and the same knowledge within and outside the classroom, through co-existence and school relations. And that is not achieved through the multiplication table, a text commentary or the teaching of rivers. It would be good to take into account, for example, the popular legislative initiative that has been registered in this Parliament. This change should be made with legal certainty and with the help of social and educational actors, and this is where political groups must agree and reach agreements, let us hope with the greatest possible consensus. Why am I talking about legal certainty? Because the proposal that you make comes to say pure and simple that educational concerts be eliminated; that the relevant measures be taken by the Administration, in order to finally eliminate the concerts. Something similar, by the way, to what the Junta of Andalusia did not long ago with some concerted school that had a similar situation, and what happened, due to lack of legal certainty, is that they have rejected the appeal of the Junta of Andalusia and have given the reason to the school to which in its day the educational concert was withdrawn. Therefore, what is done must be done with absolute legal certainty, changing in the regulations what needs to be changed, and being rigorous and demanding. That is what we wanted to reflect with the amendment, in which you have not, by the way, done the slightest bit of intention to approach our position, and therefore what we are going to do is, with those criteria, to maintain the current proposal. And, I stress again, decisions as complicated as this cannot be made joyfully from night to morning, because what happened to the Andalusian Junta this same year can happen.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u67	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u68	Thank you, Chief. Good afternoon, again. It's one of the categories and two requests that the EH Collect does in his initiative. I'll start with the confirmation from the second point. The text says that the education model is an outcast, and you've gone far beyond words. It may be an interesting discussion about the propriety of the various pedagogical patterns; for there are arguments to defend the thing and the quite contrary. You mentioned the Science magazine, but I'm sure if there was a man up there that defended a separate education, he'd put a dozen examples on the table that were supposed to be the opposite of it in an immediate way. So I'm sure there are arguments against one thing and the other against it, and they'll probably be solid arguments. And in this case I speak not only of mixed or distinct educations, but also of other pedagogical examples. But the dispute we have in our present day is about the matters we have made, and I am bound to them, for this discussion and the legal application we make must be placed in the legal field. Indarrean den Hezkuntza Legeak zera said: "In no case will there be discrimination on the grounds of birth, race, sex, religion, opinion or any other personal or social condition or circumstance." Eta gehitzen du: "The admission of pupils or the organization of gender-differentiated education shall not constitute discrimination, provided that the teaching provided by them is carried out in accordance with the provisions of article 2 of the Convention against Discrimination in Education adopted by the General Conference of UNESCO". Gehiago said: "In no case will the choice of sex-differentiated education imply less favourable treatment or disadvantage for families, pupils and corresponding centres when entering into concerts with educational administrations or in any other way. To this end, the centres must present their project..." and so on. At the moment mentioned in the law the letter says: "If the State accepts it, these circumstances will not be thought to be a neglect... ": "To create and maintain separate systems and schools for men and women..." "I don't know. Gehiago esaten du: "The creation or maintenance of separate teaching systems or establishments shall not be regarded as constituting discrimination". At the European level, Directive 2014/113, which applies the principle of equal treatment between men and women in access to and supply of goods and services, points out in recital 13 that the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of sex does not apply to public or private education, and adds in recital 17 that the principle of equal treatment in access to goods and services does not require the provision in all cases of benefits or shared facilities for men and women, since they are not offered more favourably to one another. Consequently, the legislation does not discriminate against the differentiated education model if the equal opportunities of pupils of both sexes are respected. With all this, whatever one's thoughts may be, the law can't be said to encourage neglect. As for the demands, the first order. In the first place, I'm asking you to apply the principle to the whole system of mixed school that helps to transform the relationship between the students into a whole system. And this request is already a universal reality in Euskadin. The Basque Public School Act defined public school as plural, bilingual, democratic, at the service of Basque society, socially and culturally rooted in its environment, participatory, compensating for inequalities and integrating diversity, while noting as one of its purposes ensuring the co-educational nature of the teaching provided. And, beyond public school, this criterion of co-education has been pursued for decades also by the vast majority of private concerted schools; however, in Euskadi there are still a few educational institutions that are committed to the application of differentiated education systems. The Law for Equality of Men and Women, Law 4/2005, says in text for the Basque educational system that "Public educational policies must be aimed at achieving an educational model based on the integral development of the person apart from gender stereotypes and roles, the rejection of all forms of discrimination and the guarantee of academic and professional orientation not biased by gender". In addition, it sets out some co-educational objectives that the educational curriculum should develop and pursue. And, in line with this mandate under the law, the decree establishing the basic education curriculum and establishing it in Euskadi establishes among its principles that this education must contribute to the integral development of the person apart from gender stereotypes and roles, the rejection of all forms of discrimination and the guarantee of academic and professional orientation not biased by gender. To this end, educational institutions will enhance the real equality of men and women in all their dimensions. There is, therefore, no doubt about it; She's interested in applying the principle of education in an euskal education system. The chief physician announced it last Friday. As he has said, "The mixed organization is of great importance to promote the equality of genera from the school, for by the co-operation of the school it teaches the difference from its early youth, to respect and to treat it the same. The bet that's done for you is smart, like a big majority of society. And as for the second order, it's fun to ask that you don't help educational schools. The consequence is, that the treaty of these schools is suspended. For our team, what EH Collect calls for is not to be done because it is contrary to the established regulations. And Mrs. Ubera said: "What do you want to do to help those colleges with money? "I don't know. Whether we like it or not, the regulations now established admits the right of raising public money. And this is well known by the orators, because there are judgments which say so plainly. But instead of confessing reality as it is, it makes her much more attractive to come here and say that it's contrary to the equality of men and women. And why do they have the right to receive public money? Now, because it is expressly said in the established regulation, that it is not a pattern, and that it is expressly said, they have a right to receive the public money. And as far as the treaty is concerned, Mrs. Ubera has mentioned the decree, but in regard to the decree there must be certain facts which must be made clear: the decree cannot be read in an isolated manner, but only in the other regulations of the highest rank. And the regulation of treaties is Publique, and prescribes certain conditions to determine whether a School may be concluded or not: the permission to teach and the number of students. And treaties are not strictly administrative actions. They cannot be given or removed without notice of what was received in the law. That's what you're asking for. The euscal schools which offer a distinct education follow the regulation now established, and consequently the law itself acknowledges the right of being supported by public funds. And this isn't in the company of the Basque Munchion, but the law says it doesn't count as a diver and they have a right to it. Therefore, having received the decree in hand, what you say at this moment is not plausible, it is quite contrary to legal security. And some of the autonomy members, as has been said here, decided not to take advantage of the public money. And after a long trial of justice, they were told: " You have not walked according to the law, and have a right to be covenanted. So retreat and recoup again." Is that the future you're asking for? Since what is required in the sense is not possible, we had two choices: one to represent and to vote contrary; or the other to represent a correction and to explain our attitude. And we've started this second way. At the first point of correction, we ask him to follow the rules which are established in the field of education, to restore all the projects offered to the freedom of teaching and of the Basque Schools, so we call the Eusko to guarantee the legal security. On the second point, however, we ask the division to continue the wager on behalf of the following: The education that contributes to the integration of the person's development, the stereotypes and roles based on sex, which excludes all dissecting modes, and guarantees a academic orientation that has not been damaged by the genus. After all, to act on a legal security, to comply with the law and continue to bet on the side of the community. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u69	Thank you, Mrs. News. Over the teams that don't run, Mrs. Bengochea, representative of Euscal Populars. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u70	To begin with, I would like to refer to something that is presented to us in this document. Here it is called all the time, the type of education that differentiates and on the one hand it has boys and on the other it has girls, a "segregated" education. Look, it's true that we're in the post-truth era; then, someone thinks that something is true and says it, and says it, and says it, without having any reason, especially shared. Because words and names and languages are for us all to understand together. And this kind of education is called "di-fe-ren-cia-da," not "segregated," but you go on, go on.... But you know, that's it: the era of post-truth. And in reality the post-truth invented it Goebbels; that is, one says one thing that is not true, says it a thousand times, and with a little luck it gets to be true. I mean, we're gonna talk about differentiated education. Look, I had more or less the same data as the representative of the Basque Nationalist Party. I have, like her, the data of UNESCO, the data of the European Union, the data..., I mean, the data of the institutions, both of UNESCO and of the European Union, as well as of the Spanish Constitution, as well as of the interpretations that justice has made of the legitimacy or not of differentiated education. But since she's exposed them, I don't think she deserves to repeat them, but, come on, they're the same ones I have. Now, what I do want to say is that this debate is not really a debate about differentiated education, because if it were what would be here would be an approach to changing the law, and probably not here, but in that forum where we are all, that forum that we sometimes paint as far away (Madrid, Madrid...), as if we were not all there also debating. And we could change the law. But today's debate is not about differentiated education, and I will tell you why. Look, there is a principle of democracy (this is a debate about democracy), there is a principle of democracy which is one of the most fundamental but one of the least known, which is the following: citizenship can do everything that the law does not prohibit, everything; but the Administration can only do what the law allows or mandates it. This is a basic principle of democracy, and it is the principle that protects citizens against tyranny: for the Administration to do something, it must be either mandated or permitted by law, and, quite the contrary, citizens can do anything that is not prohibited by law. So, I think that's what this debate is about. Because this debate is that you understand that the Administration can make these kinds of decisions, and you have already been told that no judgments in Germany, sentences in Spain, both from the Supreme and also where the occasion was presented in Andalusia... The Administration can't say, "Because I don't want to, I now... or for noble reasons, for my noble reasons, I now stop subsidizing differentiated education." No, no, It's totally serious! It's just that proposing this is an act I'm not going to say tyranny, because it sounds too much capital, but you're proposing – and this is very serious – that the Administration do something that the law doesn't command you, nor specifically allows you. And, therefore, it cannot be done. [[Berber]] Well, that's exactly what I told him! I'm sorry, president that this...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u71	Mrs. Ubera, your shift is coming.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u72	Okay. That's exactly what I told you. This would be a debate about differentiated education if you brought it in as a law change, or a rule change, or whatever, but you don't bring it in like that. You bring him in saying that the Administration, because it seems noble to me and it seems good to me and I don't know what, stop financing, stop agreeing with schools of differentiated education. Well, it can't be done. Citizens can do everything that the law does not prohibit them, and if they want to make a differentiated education center they have all the right of the world, because the law does not prohibit it. But the Administration – and those who are jurists in this Parliament will know that this is the case – the Administration can only do what the law allows or mandates it. Is there a law that allows you to withdraw the educational concert from a differentiated educational center? There isn't! Then you can't do it. And that's what happened to the Andalusian Junta, that the Andalusian courts so ruled it, and then the Supreme Court then re-judged it in this way. The Administration, in order to prevent it from becoming tyranny over citizens, has its field of action absolutely narrowed. Why do you think that before each rule there is a very lengthy paragraph explaining to us under which laws, under which decrees, under which regulations that regulation appears? That's why, because if there's something that doesn't allow it or sends it, it can't be done. I think little more remains to be explained. And any day, without fear, we do the debate on differentiated education, but when appropriate, when you try to bring here some kind of norm, and if not here, then, in the corresponding forum, where we are all too. And there will be discussion about goodness, about freedoms... about all the issues. But what you ask here is impossible, because there is no law that commands or allows the Administration to remove an educational concert because it does.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Together represent the Podemos team. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u74	Good afternoon. Thank you, everyone. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Our team didn't make any correction because we agreed and we're together with the motion that EH Collect introduced to us. The motive and proposition is clear and simple, in our opinion, in the positive sense, just, and also in our opinion, good for the euscal educational system, and good for the eupscal society. On the one hand, we agree that the peculiar model of education is excluded, and that the values which it draws from it, because they are related and graduated, and that the principle of the equality of the classes of both sexes is not respected by the legislature, of course they do. We agree that in the entire systems of eupscal education there must be the same crickets, and a mixed school that develops community or couccation. And, of course, we agree with the third point of the proposal, which is precisely the demand that the Parliament makes to you: it is not acceptable to invest public money in schools that distinguish it from sex. It's probably legal, but we think that's not acceptable in 2017. For these reasons we are basically not making any amendments to this proposal and will support it. A few weeks ago we asked the Department of Education for data on the funding of sex segregation centres in Euskadi. The result was (published, if I am not mistaken, last week) that in the course 2017-2018 almost 13 million euros were going to go to the concertation of six private concerted schools that only accept men or women: Gaztelueta, Munabe, Ayalde, Arangoya, Erain and Eskibel, all of them curiously linked to Opus Dei. Looks like there might be a problem around here, too. The Ayalde school in Bilbao receives 4.5 million euros; Gaztelueta, 3.6 million; Arangoya closes the list. But, in addition to this €13 million, the Department of Education has subsidized almost €600,000 to these schools, starting with Gaztelueta and Ayalde, for various educational programmes. As Mr Uria would say, it is a matter of money for an education which does discriminate and which is making a double measuring rod. In addition, €600,000 for the acquisition of digital devices, educational support plans, programmes of excellence and – something that is especially bloody, in the situation that we have the haurreskolas – also for children's schools. And in the meantime, what's going on outside? In Sopela (Zipiriñe), barracks, or, in terminology that probably pleases the government more, prefabricated modules. How's the Miribilla school? Where's the San Adrian gym? And where's Zalla's new building? And we go on, and we go on, and we go on. They are 13 million precious euros that could go to public education. Don't ask us, please, and we're not going to do it, let's not talk about two realities. Not only for this, but also for this reason, it is immoral to support with so much money..., well, not with 13 million, not with a single euro, these segregating centers, but especially these elite centers, where besides few daughters and children of the working class are going to study, and not even of that increasingly dreary middle class. We were also surprised at Mr Erkoreka's response to the question that gave rise to this motion at this time of debate. He said that the Government will continue to fund these schools, because it is part of the established framework and of the autonomous and state consensus around one of the pillars of the social state. Mrs Uriarte – I believe it has already been mentioned – also mentioned that it is a sex-segregated education that was not discriminatory. I am not going to question, because I am not going to amend the plan now to the Supreme Court, that this is not legal, but that it is of consensus, let me put it much more in question. In this debate, through information from the North newspaper we find this report, or this propaganda from the bosses of these centers, from the bosses COAS. The truth that I had occasion to read it a couple of days ago, and the truth that I am at least surprised. First, the advantages of differentiated education are praised. To talk about this, I think I'm going to obviate the great work for equality that entities, companies and personalities linked to Opus Dei have been doing for centuries and centuries in favor of equality, very close to here, for example, in Navarre. Let's get over it. Well, in that report they argue that there are cognitive differences between boys and girls, and that it is appropriate to provide them with separate instruction to optimize their capacities. They also aim at better behaviour of students in general; even if they take more attention from teachers, making it difficult to develop them. Okay. They also highlight as a value the greater empathy that is generated with the teacher when it is of the same sex as the student. I'll be the weirdo in this, because the truth is that I developed a pretty big empathy with the teacher or with the teacher, with the walker, with the teacher, regardless of her sex. I don't know if there'll be any statistics on that. But what's already at work is what's coming now. I open quotes (they talk about physical differences): "For many boys physical contact sports, such as football or rugby, etc., can not only be fun, but actually lay the basis for a lasting friendship. For girls, however, aggressiveness does not build friendships, rather it destroys them. In mixed schools, both ways of living aggressiveness collide." I close quotes. Were these not those of equal education, non-discriminatory education? Are you serious that this model that seeks equality is based on the fact that we guys do football, rugby, I don't know if boxing too, and that girls...? Well, it's true here that it doesn't say what sports girls have to devote to, but, well, more light sports? Benetan: Do you have zentzuzkoa? Had we not remained in that we had to overcome through education, among other things through co-education, the current social construction of genders and roles, which is so retrograde and so patriarchal? Where is the diversity of identities in these centres? Do we not approve all groups last week of a proposal to make a campaign that would raise the awareness of society about the purchase and responsible consumption of toys that are not violent and that are not discriminatory by gender? Can you tell me how this marries the report of this educational employer? Can you tell me how you marry this with financing this educational employer with 13 million euros? Can you tell me how to house finance these schools that claim that kids feel more comfortable in more aggressive physical contact sports? Which is what they say, that I don't say it. That physical contact has to be aggressive? It's just that I honestly flip. Wasn't school one of the pillars of change in all this? Isn't that what's in the law? Isn't that what's in the government's plans? And, as far as it's not clear, I'm warning you that it's rhetorical, eh!, that I don't think you're going to convince otherwise. For Elkarrekin We can really do the important thing is to educate on the value of radical equality between human beings, something, logically... and I think it's a lot harder to conceive if you're segregated by sex. We therefore advocate a co-educational school, a civic and civic formation, which prevents the difference from becoming discrimination, and which also assumes this as an ethical axiom. Civic formation, citizen formation from which the idea must be absent that differences involve roles or roles and that there are functions or tasks that by nature correspond to one sex and not the other, the basic idea of this segregating ideology or of this differentiated education. I don't say it, they say it. Such a passion for the supposedly natural I don't think fits at all with the artifice of a sex-segregated school. I think the ones that have to be clarified are them. And, if not, unless some elites pay for the consequences of their ideology of their own money, not with that of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u75	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u76	According to some values, I must be pretty weird, since I've played rugby, I've played football... I don't know, I don't enter within certain parameters. Look. If it's interest, it's will, and it should be will, and that's what we should take measures. And what you plan is to stay where we are, you make no proposal to change. And read it all. Our proposal has three points, and at the third point we do not plan any legal security, jurists, politicians. What we're talking about is, you know, "That's why the law demands fun, so the law doesn't help the schools that are separated by the sex by public money, and that's why they start the political, administrative, economic measures that have to be taken. What we're saying is just taking the measures to begin. But look, I doubt it because I reviewed all the legislation. and the law says nothing, and this decree says other things, which the government does not fulfil, because it says where the money ought to be directed, and this government does not fulfil it. This, then, is a matter of will, and it is a question of preference. Some public schools have been deprived of their money, they've reduced it. Is that the law? Is this a violation? Is legal security legal? If the fun is really for equality, if it wants to promote the transformation of the relationship of power, if we really believe it's making a more equal society, it's the policy to push it into every area, even in finance, because it's marked one or the other way with the budget, and so, by degrees, we're building a social model or something else. This, then, is a matter of will, it is a matter of preference, and this government will know what interests, what wills, what social institutions it has. We were just asking to take precautions. That's all. To conclude, a fellow always says that his left hand has not all the answers, but that he asks himself questions, which he does not do to his right. And to finish this intervention today, I want to ask this government a number of questions. And I shall begin with questions: Why do we have to help historically private schools that come from the tradition of the Catholic Church? Why do we have to help many of them, the cooperatives that work as private corporations? Why should we help the public money with the cooperatives that dissected for sex? Why should we help people with public money who do not accept children that feel both men and women? Why should we help the cooperatives that make it contrary to the principles of society which we seek to build? Why should we help the cooperatives that tend to spread sexism? Why should we help the collapses where stereotypes are rooted? Why should we help as a whole to improve the performance of our education system? Why do we have to take money from public education to help these settlements? Why should we help them? Why?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor... He's not going to talk. Eubertarians. Dear madam, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u78	Thank you, Chief. You're asking me not to help you with public money because it's a distraction. If this be so, if dissecration be a reality, beyond the other propositions of this kind which may be made in the legislature, why do you not take one step further, and beg to deprive and shut off those schools of permission for teaching? And I don't have time, and I'll never repeat all the legal reports I've made, but the rules of the day, which are not in our power, clearly says that the model of education is not a dismemberment, whether it pleases us or whether it isn't shared or not. And I repeat, we don't say it, it doesn't say 'Mulk'. Mr. Martínez has put it under cover for 13 million. Very few, I'm not going to say whether it's much or not. I know what I know is that if I used the same argument you're using, and I'd act as you did, it's what I know is that in the budget of 2017 there were 265 million euros. You wanted to put it under 13 million euros. If I could turn around that, I could say that the $2664 million, those people that go to 2.6 billion, are going to work with them. And you'd say, "That's not the way it is," but not the way you say it. By the way, Mr Martínez, in Valencia, where I think they govern with your support, there are a few different educational centres (more than in Euskadi, look at you), and do you know what happens to them? Well, they're going to have to put in $14 million to pay for concerts with schools in differentiated education. This has happened to the Council, and this is what happens in Euskadi, exactly the same thing. The same law, the same reality, and therefore the government has to agree here, if that is what the differentiated education centres are asking for, the same thing that happens to you in Valencia. Exactly the same. And Mrs. Ubera used to tell us at the third place to take the necessary measures that it's said to be sweet, and to make fun of them start. The point is he's not here. I'm afraid it's not in the hands of the Red Law. And the law has more than once studied the mutual compatibility or incompatibility of the education and public contributions, and there are several judgments about it. And they've been here this year, like this one, and it's been mentioned here. I mean, a perfect example that describes how something has ended that you are asking for today is the case of Andalusia. In 2014, the Junta de Andalucía resolved the requests to benefit from the regime of educational concerts leaving a differentiated education center without a concert. That center appealed the decision to the High Court of Justice of Andalusia, and the latter failed in 2015 saying: "We must annul and annul that decision because it is not in conformity with the legal order", and declaring the law of the center. In the light of this ruling, the Andalusian Board appealed in cassation to the Supreme Court, and in a ruling issued in May 2017 the ruling says: "The appeal of cassation filed by the Andalusian Board is dismissed." What else do you want me to tell you? Is that what you are asking the Basque Government to do, to reproduce this script once again, to remove the concerts in order to have to give them again as long as the current rules do not vary, which does not depend on this Parliament or on the Basque Government? Are you asking us to repeat this experience? There is no doubt that the Basque Government is interested in making the Basque education system a system with co-education as a principle. There is no doubt that mixed education contributes to the promotion of gender equality from school, since through cohabitation in school it is taught from the earliest age to know, respect and treat the same difference. Mixed education enables values to be fostered, and its extension has undoubtedly been an advance in the treatment of gender equality, which constitutes democracy and goes beyond its legal recognition and is still far from being a reality. That is why the Basque Government makes a clear commitment to co-education, as well as a very large majority of Basque society, although it is clear that this education cannot fall solely within the education system. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u79	Thank you, Mrs. News. Basque Popular. Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Look, I want to insist that I am not going to talk about differentiated education if it is not in the context of proposing a change in laws. Because I repeat again that what we are talking about here is democracy. But I do want to make some notes to the representative of Podemos who has spoken. Let's see, you've done... I think, really, you should be informed a little earlier. You've mentioned a lot of names here, and then a employer... The names of the centers you mentioned don't belong to that employer, I don't know if you've heard. Yes, that's what I'm saying: that employer is, but the names you've cited as within that employer are not. And, moreover, it does not seem right and proper to me that we here name specific centres, for a reason, for a reason alone, and it is because here the rules are not made ad hominen, they are not made because one has more or less mania to a specific centre. Here the rules are generally made. And you, coming here as the accuser, "why and such center, and such center, and such center and such center, which belongs to COAS..." (which do not belong to COAS), what you are trying to do is to make an ad hominem decision, (or ad feminan, or ad centrum, I don't care), but that's how things are not done. Things are done for everyone, not against those we have mania. Then I want to answer Mrs. Ubera all the questions she asked us. That why we use public money in centers that are of the Church and I don't know what and what. Well, you know why? Because there's one thing called freedom. There is one thing called freedom, and people are free to try to give their children the education that seems most right to them. Yes, yes! And the Administration, as the law does not allow it – I have said before – nor commands it to remove the concerts, it gives them to it. It's just that it's a problem of freedom. It's just, Mrs. Ubera, I think you think... He even later said "and to schools that promote sexism and stereotypes." Those aren't subsidized! They're not subsidized! And please, group that supports the government, if you find out that there is some center that is being arranged that is sexist and that supports stereotypes, please remove the concert. I'm joining Mrs. Ubera. What I don't wear is Mrs. Ubera's glasses, which she claims we're all wearing. Mrs. Ubera, the world doesn't just look for your glasses. What you see as a sexist, or as a creator of stereotypes, other people don't see it that way. And do you finally know who's failing? The law, justice better said in this case. If you think this is happening, report it, because I'm joining you. If I too believe that there is sexism and that stereotypes are being fostered, I join you. But I also warn you that I don't have the same glasses as you. And I don't mean for everyone to wear my glasses, but please don't mean for everyone to wear their glasses. Because people are free, free. As easy as that, free. And the administration has to take care of everyone. And, I repeat, people are free to do everything that the law does not prohibit, even differentiated centers, and the Administration can do nothing more than what the law commands or allows them to do. And he neither sends nor allows him to remove the grant to the agreed centers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. And, finally, we're representing the Podemos team together. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u82	As I said before, we will support the initiative, because it seemed to us to be an important step towards the elimination of this type of discriminatory education, at least in our view, which is as legitimate as that of all others. And before it coincided – and many times in education it happens to us, Mr Pastor, that we agree – and I think we should pick up the proposal and the glove – and I don't know if the rest of the groups can agree – that, taking advantage of the framework of this ILP for which signatures are being collected and which has been discussed here, let us address this situation. Because I believe – and Mrs Ubera has also said this – that it is a matter of will, it is a question that, if we are more or less all agreed on this issue, we have to get to work on it. If it is slow, we will try to speed up some, and others not so much, but the question is to work towards eliminating public subsidies for this kind of segregating education. Because at that moment... We now have a motion, which obviously does not have the binding character of a law or a decree, and the arguments we have seen can be those that we will see later in a legislative process. Then, we will see at that time whether the will that has been expressed by any of the groups is so. And to bring it into line with the law, I trust the lawyers of this Parliament and the government, because there are opportunities and opportunities to work on legislation that will tackle this. And also, if necessary, we will work in Congress in that sense. Mrs Berriozabal referred to the Valencian Community. My political group, which is the United Left of the Valencia Country, is not in the (let me finish)... Podemos, Podemos Valencia, is supporting a governability agreement in the agreement... None of our representatives here in Euskadi agree with that. Is there something wrong with that? No, no, Well, look, it's recognized: we don't agree with what they're doing in Valencia. No problem. The same as if a partner or partner of ours from any party is doing something we don't agree with. That is what needs to be done: when someone asks him about a situation in which he does not agree, he is recognised (hey, look, in Parliament's rostrum, it is recorded that we do not agree with that situation). It's okay. But we're talking about Euskadi, we're talking about what we have to do here. And what we are going to do here today is vote in favour of Bildu's proposal, you against, and we will see, in the ILP debate or in the debate when it comes to amending the law, what you do. And, Mrs Bengochea, I have not introduced the names for a mania, nor for a question of transparency; that we ask the department for the data, the department published them, are published, and I do not think that the media that publish it have a special mania. It's an ideological issue. Mania I have other things, precisely social injustice and this kind of non-egalitarian education. So don't worry, it's not a matter of persecutory mania towards anyone. I therefore repeat that we will vote in favour of Bildu's proposal. I call on us, if this debate does not go ahead today, in the debates we are going to have in the coming months, to reach an agreement in which we can all agree. And, I repeat, it is not a question, Mrs Bengoechea, that we want to eliminate or remove the entire budget from these centres. Honestly, whoever wants this kind of education, pay for it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u83	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the original text of Mrs. Ubera Araneta's motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71; supporters 26; the opposites, 45; white, 0; Abstension, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u84	So, original text was not accepted. Next, we vote for the general correction of the Basque Socialists and of the Eunciators at the same time. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 71; supporters 45; contraries, 26; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u85	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. I'll go on at the next point, because I'm told it's not too long. Five point in theme list: "The other proposition of Podemos as a parlamentary group, concerning A1 and A2 eas. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, Mr Martínez, representing the Podemos team, has the word to present and defend action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u86	Good afternoon, Mr. President, members of the legislature. As it seems, there have been obvious steps around the cradle. It was only 25 years ago that the quarter of the citizens, that is, 24.1, spoke of Ease, according to the last Socillistic Institute, that is to say, 2016, is already a third, 33,9%. And another large set of citizens, 19,1%, though they cannot speak, is capable of comprehension. One of the most important challenges which society has before it is to follow this way. This society continues to show that it is by effort and engagement that it wants more to make use of it. But how this has been done. In the policy of language I wish to distinguish four essential paradigms, and, alas, three of them contrary to multiplicity and mutual life. It was the first that encourages the extinction of small languages, the ideology and practice which has been well endured during the early Frichism. The second is that free market between languages, the perspective still to be heard in ours, which denies public impulse and assistance, the attitude against positive actions, though it is known that hegemonys (that is to say, youthful and French) will weaken the presence of constancy. The third is, on the other side, a plan which is sufficiently well known in ours, as a barrier or wall. The only official language, more thorough investigations and reprisals, difficulties with public sector and suggestions like that. And the fourth is, finally, the Françoise, which we protect, opening the options of betting on the eucalyptic, building bridges and making new attachments. We place the map in this catalogue or catalog to supply the complete reconnaissance of eucalyptic A1 and A2 levels. As to this measure, it must be observed that the common range of Europe, referred to for languages of 2001, had been established by A1 and A2, but the systems of our language titles (HABE, specifically) have not been regulated until two years ago. This negligence seems to us to be interesting also because we know that after us there has been contempt for this fundamental level. For some, these steps of persons with beginners or difficulties, these valuable steps to approach the eucalyptus, were not worth the reconnaissance. It seems that for this view only EGA or the fourth profile enables the impulse to resist. But no, from our point of view, various, great, and small contributions are necessary, and we must not forget that, in the study of euphora, many personal conditions are produced by many of them; And they do not make it easy to learn by mere will, without some means of protection and assistance. Some other day we'll talk about the activity of the euphorics, because it's a strategic measure for us, but today is a different contribution. A1 and A2 are able to respond to familiar and familiar communications. If the object is to expand the use of the support, and to expand especially in the daily life, it is the most consistent measure to admit and estimate of these grades, and, if we consider, this measure will also be the motive, to see that it progresss in the study of the euphora, for the persons who are learning, especially for adults who begin from the lowest rank and have the greatest difficulty. There are weight reasons for all these steps to be confessed. To appreciate the capacity of communication obtained through the A1s and A2 levels, may therefore be stimulant for the efforts and communication of these persons. And this is our contribution today. Like a Eukong campaign called, "A little s mucho" on the line. To conclude, a quotation to context. We know for the last years that he's made the strategic revision of some aspect of language policy and is doing it. It's a blessing, in fact, that an attempt to overcome the strong inertia of EGACTism. This paradigma has had some taboos: euphoration based on grammatical formalism, insisting on the higher grades of language knowledge, or the comparison of external rebalsis. In order to maintain the protection of society, another view is being opened, a communicational view, which at first has been driven by certain Basques, and then extended to the evaluation and check system. In this state of change, still too late for delay, a constant evacuation and an inspection of the educational system is accepted at the present time. It is looked upon in new forms of check, and in the study of employments, by a distinction of verbal and written, and also of the passive eloquence which belongs to our socilinistic reality. That's very good, and we hope we can do it right. But the regulator of the eucution of public administration (that is to say, 86/1997 Decree) is now 20 years ago, and is not adapted to such changes as are necessary, and therefore seems to us very well adapted to the adaptation of this regulation. We know, we know, that in the historical consensus about language politics they were favorable to euphora and multiplicity, but the measures, regulations, and regulations which are often planned, must be considered, in order to see what has been accomplished, and to reflect on practical consequences which did not occur in time. Today ours is a simple contribution to increase the work we've done. We have more proposals, and whether we are capable of confirming the agreements based on euscanism, multiplicity, and mutual intercourse, and of carrying on such an agreement as today. So thank the two parties that signed this deal with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u87	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, Mrs. Ubera, representative of the EH Collect Group. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u88	We may make a great deal of it for the conservation of the community, for the normalization of the cradle, but above all, what we people can do is to talk of the eucalyptus. But public administration, funk, different institutions can do more than citizens, and they have a level of responsibilities that the citizens don't have. It is the duty of the rulers, that the rights of the people should be secured, as other rights are to be guaranteed. Among these responsibilities, it is the duty of the Administration to offer the service to resist, if the right of the popular language is to guarantee it. It is, therefore, not enough, for often, often, on the other hand, it is quite a custom to leave the care of the individual. And what we really have to do here, and what you have to do, is just, you know, funk, government, bold, efficient measures to make real progress, or because there can be danger of retreating. And still more of these globalized times. We often say, "The times have changed, the times are more and more complex, our language is diminished, it is constantly intermediary with Hebrew languages." Communication is given in another way, and governments, institutions, must support the proper ecosystem in order to resist, or because it is not possible. No doubt bold decisions are required, bold resolutions, and rethinking. We think, therefore, that we are at a time of rethinking, and the most logical is that in these times the times have been changed, as in the course of the 35 years, such as to examine the law of 82, or to make the request which you have brought here to-day by the decree of 97, that is to say, to examine it. We are not opposed to the removal of laws and decrees, but of course not to withdraw. And what we perceive to-day in the proposition, and what we have observed in all the rest of the proceedings, is that there may be some temptation to retire, and it does not appear to us to be so simple a contribution, but rather to us that it is more a torpdo, not to offer the service in the administration, by seeing what steps A1 and A2 are. And we care about this because we care about it because if it's really normalization, citizen, if we have to guarantee the rights of the common language, the Administration must offer it in support. And I'll ask you a question. The theory is that the eucalyptus and the youth have the same status in Erei. And I'd say more: the eupcharation is more or less a state because it is a natural language, which is not a young man. But in practice this is not the case in everyday life, so the question is: Why do the eucalyptic and not youthful profiles always compromise? If we did it on the contrary, what would most of you here say to us? What would you think? Because, always, I don't know if you're aware of it, you're always getting eucalypating eucatic profiles. I don't know why you consider the cradle a secondary language. Why are we Basques in front of the Administration a second-class citizen? I feel a secondary citizen. I feel a secondary citizen in this house, too. I have to do what other people don't have to do. I have to do a double job. My message does not come as those who speak of youth. Why do I have to be constantly fighting for rights? Why do I have to be licked all the time, begging? Why: Because I'm a Basque? And why should I feel this way in my own country? Why should I fight like that? Why? I don't understand. And we are continually putting our proposals on the table, which put all that on the glue. And, please, 35 years have not been wasted. It hasn't been for 35 years. 21st we live in the midst of the century, and let us not turn back again. The administration requires at least B2 levels to offer support. It's a minimous. And if you read the argument in the proposition that Podemos brought with you, just to see... I do not require you to examine laws and regulations, but to describe them in what A1 means, what A2 means. And, besides, there's no objective data for that at the moment, no objective data, because the social situation has changed. How many times have you said that the social situation has changed, that new generations give us new conditions to move forward... Then why go back? I don't understand. Why do we have to start now and insert A1 and A2? It would be another matter, and perhaps we would be open there, and that would be another matter, and the proposition which power Dugu brought with it would make sense if it were philosophy to help the newcomers put it into the work-world and put it into it as an instrument for integration, yes? I mean, there might be a lot of jobs around the administration and in the work-world, the maintenance of roads or careworks. There's no need to be B2, maybe A1's good for coloquillal languages. And this philosophy may be useful for the introduction of new arrivals into the work-world, the integration of our country, the inclution. With that philosophy, we would be willing to open a path, but not in the Administration to open this door in another direction. It seems to us that it may be dangerous, and that, as I have said, there is no objective data for it, no socillistic clergyi, which justifys it. Because we all know that we don't all have the chance and we can't have the chance to get into all these jobs. All employments have certain requisites, and these demands must be fulfilled. And if I don't, on the side of my studies, as to the language profile, fulfill these demands, I know I can't get into that position. The same thing in the administration. Same thing. But what matters is that the Administration ought to fulfil the rights of all the people's languages, and to fulfil its proper function. And what is to be reckoned here is, that the rights of all the people are to be kept at the same level, and that they must be guaranteed by the Government and Administration. And that's all. And that's why today we're going to stay with our amendments, and then we're going to turn it down to the middle line that you've agreed to.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Euscala Popular's representative. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u90	Thank you, President. And shortly, because a broad agreement has been reached. We disagree with Bildu's position on this issue, and it is not going backwards for us. For us this type of initiative is not a step backwards, and it seems to us that it has been a constructive contribution to the debates in this House on the development of the Basque region and its implementation. And we think precisely, on the contrary, that Mrs Ubera, who has been a step forward in asking, as the initiative does, for a revision of Decree 86/1997, for the normalisation of the Euskera in public administrations, and to think about this adequacy according to the collective reflection that the common European reference framework on languages represents. The transaction I believe is, in fact, going in that constructive line. The compromise says that the Basque Parliament urges the Department of Culture and Linguistic Policy to analyse and send to the Basque Parliament within six months a proposal (at the end the Government will do so), a proposal, an updated analysis of Decree 86/1997 (those who have spoken have seen that it is possible, and it would be good for it to be revised and updated), of 15 April, regulating the process of normalisation of the use of Basque in the public administrations of the Basque Autonomous Community, to study the possible incorporation of all levels of the common European reference framework for languages, by combining their different skills; moreover, taking into account proposals forming part of our councils and our institutes in relation to Basque, and Hakoba in this case, and also taking into account, among other issues, the adaptation of linguistic profiles, the optimisation of the process of normalization of the use of Basque, and the public administration. That, Mrs Ubera, is absolutely constructive. It's absolutely constructive. There's nothing prejudged there! We'll see what kind of document, and we'll see what kind of report the administration definitely sends us, but I think it's okay. And it is also good to do so within the framework of which Mr Martínez has spoken. The common framework was good news, arising from an important work of the Council of Europe in favour of the knowledge of languages in the world. Besides, it's an international thing! It is not a thing that we have to do with distrust, as it is clear that you do. And you also look suspiciously at the initiative, and we just see it backwards. We see it in the sense that it is an impulse to be precisely more realistic, to be more constructive, to better adapt some of the needs of euskera in public administrations. We do think that, in relation to the reference to the original initiative, we still have to go that way, and that is why the initiative presented by Mr Martínez, who presented Elkarrekin Podemos, seems to us to be constructive, and of course the agreement reached also. When we tabled the amendment in its entirety, we did so in the search for this agreement that we have reached. I regret that you move more in suspicion and mistrust, and to see that this can be a setback or a brake or a step back. The majority of the House will see it as a step forward, in the sense of the analysis that we can make when the government presents the issue to us, the reflection, or the proposals and analysis in relation to the decree. There are many things to be corrected, surely there are many issues to be addressed, there will also be issues to be promoted, but all that has to do with it, from what we have informed ourselves, from what we have seen, with regard to the implementation of models or keys A1 or A2, is absolutely positive. In relation to the development of this framework and in relation to these keys and references, it is absolutely positive, and it is also absolutely thoughtful of the international bodies involved in the analysis and study of languages in the educational, linguistic, professional and public fields. That is to say, I believe that we have signed a good initiative, which speaks only of reviewing, reflecting on and improving areas which have already taken twenty years and which actually have other references on which to rely. And I ask you not to be so suspicious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u91	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u92	Thank you, ma'am. Briefly. Well, we agreed to the proposal of Poseidon together in his own time, which seemed appropriate to us, and we think it positive is the agreement that we have come to this Chamber today, don't we? I see it as another engagement: To do this reflection and to have that analysis in six months, I think it is a step forward, especially to see the situation we have, to enter that frame, if we have these profiles. And apart from this, as we were saying in the history of the government, we shall also have the opportunity to review the profiles required in the Administration. We'll have the hakobe's contributions there too, and I think we'll have an objective chance of seeing a nice X-ray, and we'll have a chance of making decisions accordingly. But to-day, apart from this, and if I have seen this arrangement positively, I would like to end it with a reflection, wouldn't I? We often centralize these debates in direct contact with the administration, and it's important not only to use them from the administration but to guarantee lyrical rights, isn't it? And for us, we see that. Yes, we say that these profiles must be adapted according to the duty of each one; but besides this, reflection is that we often concentrate on it, but we have a great deal to do about the challenge we have in our everyday life. And we have duties here, especially here, we often see these things in a way of revolt, which the Administration does, to have and to require such things in its daily use, or in its daily use; but according to the occurrences we had in our days, and according to our data, I think it is rather disturbing that our challenges in the use of the reconciliation, and in the sphere of the use of generations, are often a considerable challenge to us, and perhaps our reflection and action ought to be carried away from the Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u93	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u94	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. And the Language is the Coordination Committee of the People. It was born in 1997 to adapt and interact with the coordination of organizations that have a right to language policy. At this board you're learning about the "Robs" of the politics, the Eude and the UEMA" of the Three Capitals. Last meeting on July 17th, Hakoba had made, and the others were talking about the adaptation of the language in the Administration. for example, we should find in this way a certain degree of verbal skill (for example, in the mouth, demand C1), but in written skill lower (e.g. B1), or vice versa. There is no occasion for such an action at the present time, for every job to demand a demand, and skill is always equivalent, i.e. if C1 is either in writing or in mouth to C1, or even with B1. Therefore in the decree which has been established (e.g. 86/ 1997 Decree) this is impossible. In consideration of this, Hakoba proposed that he should consider this decree as an opportunity to update it, in order to render it more efficient in the use of language. The proposition made by Hakoba, and that which the Podemus has made, is almost a match; therefore we have not been in too great a difficulty in agreeing with the middle course. As the text says, that exam is asked to be done in six months' time, like the rest of us, in order to consider the language tests and the improvement of the process of the use of the cradle in our administration. In the frame of European reference we are only asked to consider the manner in which we receive all degrees, and then how these results apply, where they apply themselves, and all that is another thing, Mrs. Ubera. You said a simple contribution, Mr Martíne, but the contribution is always the way to get ahead of you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Müller. Mr Martínnez mustn't speak. Mrs. Ubera... ? Does anyone have to take the word? No? Now that the debate is over, we'll vote together with Podemos, Euskal Populars, Euzia Socialists, and the middle-runners have signed the media. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 55; contraries, 17; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-14.u96	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was two and fifty-five in the afternoon.
