ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start reading an institutional statement for today, and then we'll have a minute's silence about Raquel and Markel's murder. It's violence against women. Institutional expression: "The law of the Eus very strongly disapproves of those who lived in Alcobidas, and of the murders of Raquel López, and of Markel his son, who have been victims of another supposed act of violence against women. The parliament presents its support and sympathies to the relatives of the victims and to the nearest relatives. The Basque Parliament condemns these brutal killings, as well as any manifestations of violence against women and their family environment, especially against minors. We understand that macho violence is the most serious expression of inequalities between women and men arising from women's power and submission relationships. The Basque parliament calls the people to adopt personal and collective commitments to the equality of women and men. In the same way, he's an organizational, and he demands responsibility for removing it from the organizations that we're constructing integration plans. They are provided with means to make violence disappear for ever against women, so that there will be no other act of violence against women than that of murder which has carried away the life of two people." To accuse violence, we shall reserve a minute's silence. [[Silent]] First point in theme list: "Motion, Leire Pinedo Bustamante EH Team Membership, about concerto Ecomnomic and chimpanzee's strategy to negotiate. Discipline and final resolution. The proposer's turn, Mrs. Pindo, is yours to introduce and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u1	Good morning. Good morning, everyone. Last night, I heard you were making a deal about the cup here at Gasteto. Yesterday, there was a discussion of the whole state's proceedings in Madrid. Yesterday, EAJ announced an agreement with PP to protect state budgets. And you're trying to convince us that all this is just a coincidence. No, we don't believe it. I dare say neither of us nor of all the citizens. You may sell it as you wish: we shall see also the historical agreement, this financial stability, or as an example of superiority, but what is clear is that this agreement made leads to the budget of PP. The budgets of the party wet with corruption, of the party that has made the state of our pensioners worse, and of the man who has compromised the future of our young men, are carried on in exchange for the quapoe arrangement, which is what will happen. And the liberal budgets of PP have a direct influence on the Basque People. They've got straight influences. When Esteban introduced the agreement between PNV and PP yesterday, he said as follows: "He is not accerdo que no va contra nadie." Actually, I don't know exactly what's the reality behind that "noble" for Mr. Esteban. At least what we know is different. I think it's hard. And thus it may be said that the long, long, long list of the damages of this agreement is almost infinite. To mention some instances follow: The people of Catalonia are subject to perpetual obstacles and threats in the course of their decisions. Pentionists, who have a 5% loss in their income for 2011 years, live under reductions, and are very much afraid. The workers, besides the loss of five points in the capacity of bribes, are in the aim of violent labour-forms, and 66% of which there is no compact. The unemployed, more and more helpless, 60% of the EAE is not ready at all. Young men, our young men, who are the principal victims of the presidency system, who deny both the future and the present, which is the '96th time of their contracts. Even the education unit, we can't forget it. The education community, which is constantly subject to foreign laws and rules, for the Lombard case; or the chest, which has been on the verge of disappearing, and which threatens it, is always a refurbary to the savings. Public policies. In their generality, employed by the tools of debt and defence, the chief effect of the police of election has been to destroy the public initiative and leader, and to question the democracy itself. It's been years since the legends of the dome have not been closed, and we all do that. reading and applying the same law of the dome, but calculating here and there the different amounts of Madrid. A lot of money around here and not settle the subject. For 10 years, you're silent. Okay, thanks. The differences between 10 years of age do not render our economy any good; but at the same time the agreement cannot be of any kind. We have often heard that it is a good arrangement, and that many here and there have praised the arrangement, especially when they have been obliged to justify the agreement for the benefit of their own interests. And today, I'm sure they'll praise it. And we mean: the agreement is good, when the substance of the agreement is good. The agreement is good, when the context of the agreement is good, when the way to get it is proper, and the exchange is acceptable. We've been asking the president twice about the negotiations between you and the State government around the coupe. We've asked him because he's an important subject. We asked him because he's worried about us. But I must confess that the President's answer did not deliver us any good; It is only when the Government of Madrid pleases, that the agreement is given around the deck. But it wasn't just the President's words. During the last few days, Mr. Erkoa, who is a spokesman of the government, in the press of the Council, declared that the exchange of the quapo is a matter of the government, and immediately referred to the agreement of the quapoe, and the budget of PNV-P. In fact, the only reason that for 10 years the Spanish Government has a problem with the budgets is that PP has no absolute majority. The quapoe, which is regulated by law, outside what the law says, and according to PP's need, has been settled in a closed office. Difference, self-goverment respect... It's the words you've been repeating over and over again, but the word that really matters in this situation is a dependency. addiction! The agreements that surround the dome have been submitted to the will and necessity of the government of the state, in the exchange between parties, in the dark chromium between PPren and PNV. By mutual protection from the budgets here and in the state, very far from what the law itself has said, and even far from the respect due to the auto-gravity of our people. All of it! The coupa is a very important subject, so we told the president. From our point of view, this kind of subject, the themes that influence us as a people, must be defended as a people, far from parties. Hence we believe that the legislature has a fundamental function in the negotiations of the quapoe, in order to ensure its transparency, in order to strengthen and protect the negotiation, and, of course, to continue the negotiation itself and to control the possible agreement. In recent weeks since the Government, they have always tried to disconnect the quota negotiation, something to be done between the Basque Government and the Government of the State, and the negotiation of the State's general budgets between the Basque People's Party and the Basque Nationalist Party. But reality is clumsy. Even the government's own spokesman ended up relating, at the press conference on 25 April, both negotiations, recalling – and I quote textual words – that "the timetable is there, pressing, and this Friday the deadline for tabling amendments to the entire budgets is over". The reality, once again, has been that something as important for the public coffers of our administrations as the liquidation of the quota, a disencounter of nothing less than ten years, has been reduced to an exchange of chromosomes between parties, to a negotiation between PNV and the People's Party in offices, without transparency at all ("You approve the budgets to me, I approve to you, and so friends"). Once again, the quota is subject to the needs of the Madrid Government in turn. Because that is what has happened: something that is defined in a law, the Five-Year Cup Law, a law of compulsory compliance, a law that is passed in the Congress of Deputies, has been in question for ten years because successive Madrid governments have been interested. The words of Alfonso Alonso himself at a conference in Bilbao on 25 April are eloquent for this. And I quote: "If it hasn't been done before, it's because we've spent very bad years. The fact that governments are now in need helps, but above all, the country's financial situation was very bad." Clearer, the water. The Madrid governments have had no intention of doing the liquidations of the quotas properly since 2007 because they were not interested, because their economic situation was bad. So the Basques and the Basques have paid an extra 1,570 million for it. We've been, in short, the gang's pauffantas. Now they will come to us with the goodness of the agreement. From an agreement that gives air to a PP government encircled by corruption, to a leading PP government in austereicide, to a PP government that will follow its usual policies of cutting social rights, of denying the identity of nations such as Catalonia or Euskal Herria, of reforms against workers. Reforms which, ladies and gentlemen, are also bad for Basques and Basques, do not give them any doubt. From the PP government comes nothing good for people on foot, you look where you look. An agreement, on the other hand, which gives the State five more years to deduct from quotas what it has unduly charged us for ten years. In other words, the state has negotiated the return within comfortable deadlines and without releasing a single euro. An agreement that gives rise to the scheme of subordination before the State. An agreement that makes it a good thing that the state has the frying pan for the handle. Because, let's not be fooled, it is the government of the state that decides when and how. I already told Mr. lehendakari: the dance begins Madrid, and it is Madrid who has the dance chart and chooses the song. And so it has been: when and how Madrid has wanted, and with the music that Madrid has wanted. And worst of all, the PNV apparently likes this scheme of subordination, because it doesn't question it. Maybe, maybe because it's a game. It sets him up to sell deals where there should be direct application of the law, nothing more. And it's a game to announce to you, like a friend of mine, that the sun comes out in the mornings. This agreement will end the differences of ten years; but at the same time it gives way to the perpetuity of dependence. It has not been defended as a people by Biscaia, by Gipu, and by the welfare of the people of Arba. It is not as a people that we can defend as a people. It has not therefore been defended as a people, even in economic matters, the very nature of this people. The agreement will produce financial stability. We shall see how much the State, the government of the State, is now breaking the consent, we have already seen everywhere, but in the meantime it passes on to the government of the party involved in corruption. You will tell us, and you have insisted on, that cases of corruption and management must not be confounded, but what is it but a mode of managing corruption? You will present the agreement as a great achievement, as you have always done with transferments; but once again you must remember what is actually happening: Governments of the State first produce a question of their own benefit, and of their due agreements. An old scheme, an obsolete schema, and you're still there, with these old-fashioned negotiations schemes in the dark. Modes, modes of negotiation, must be changed. A theme so important for the economy of our people cannot be negotiated, but this negotiation cannot be maintained. Therefore we think it essential to defend ourselves as a people, to negotiate between two parts of the same rank, and to proclaim, of course, the role of the legislative as the promoter and remunerator of the same relation. Today they will sell us their agreement, today they will sell stability, they will sell trust and all those common spaces that remain so well, but tomorrow, tomorrow, there will continue to be young people with contracts for hours, unemployed people of more than fifty years who are seen outside the labour market because of an unjust labor reform, pensioners who are struggling to reach the end of the month, poor workers in the realm of precariousness, a minimum interprofessional wage, and thousands of impoverished and unemployed people without work. Tomorrow, all the antisocial policies of the People's Party will have a budget that supports them, because the Basque Nationalist Party has wanted to do so. According to you, for the sake of the Basques and Basques. Ladies and gentlemen, face B of your agreement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. On the side of the teams who are running the corrections, the group of Podemos, Mr. Bollain, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. Mr. President, Congressman, good morning. Well, I'd like to make it clear at first that we present a firm defense to the economic concert, the firm defence of this natural system which sets up and regulates the financial relations of Euskal Autonomy to Er member and of the Spanish State. This gives us the power to maintain, establish, and regulate our own rules of tribes; that is to say, we have every autonomy to determine, manage, and assemble the taxes which the Basques have to pay. And, indeed, we find it inevitable that a people can manage its resources in order to maintain its own well-being. But we believe that we ought to do this as a common institutional relationship, and not as a bill for negotiation over budgets. Therefore, we vote for the medium we've accomplished, because of transparency and the exact tracking of the quadrilateral negotiations should be made to control its level of perfection. He said that we wanted to make clear from here our firm defense of the economic concert, a tool for the Basque Autonomous Community to have the power to generate and manage its own resources. An economic concert that we see indispensable to maintain our welfare state properly. However, the Basque Nationalist Party and the People's Party use one of our most powerful tools as a mere party weapon in an obvious fish auction. A fish auction between a structurally rotten People's Party drowned by corruption and an unscrupulous Basque Nationalist Party, which looks only for its own interests and for those of its customer plot. An auction that began in 2017 when the Basque Nationalist Party offered 25 million euros to approve the budgets of the Basque Autonomous Community, which Mrs Gorospe herself reminded us of in the plenary on 30 March when she said "It offered the Basque Government, to reach a pact, 25 million euros". Well, the PNV, in exchange for finally giving 29 million euros to the People's Party, to the worst bidder, jointly agreed this year's budgets. A fish auction where in Madrid the Basque Nationalist Party mortgages the future of Basque citizenship by supporting and legitimizing the way to govern the People's Party, which has made corruption a practice of public management. In exchange for what? For example, in exchange for the Basque Government's commitment to the ratification of budgetary stability agreements until 2019. And it is that we are not yet very clear what the real price for Basque citizenship will be, but, in all this sub-aaster dynamic, an agreement linked to public finances can be tarnished by the consolidation of the social cuts of the People's Party and the validation by the Basque Nationalist Party, both here and in Madrid, of a neoliberal economic policy to satisfy the elites and their own interests. The Basque Nationalist Party, the party of the cuts in the RGI, the party of the high offices, the party of the mass externalizations, or the party of the case of Miguel or of the case News, has behaved as a mercenary of the quota. [[Berber]] A mercenary of the quota that makes us renounce our rights and political dignity, and that does so legitimizing the subalternity of Euskadi as regards the negotiation of the quota, a negotiation that is undoubtedly subject to short-term political favors, which in no way benefits Euskadi. We have been announcing for months that this flirtation between the People's Party and the Basque Nationalist Party is coming from afar, and it is undeniable that between the "very, very complicated" and the "inviable", the PNV and the PP have always been able to row together in favor of the economic elites. And this was already said in September, when Aitor Esteban lied to all Basque citizens repeatedly pointing out that an agreement with the People's Party was impossible. But not only was it not impossible, but the Basque government has moved from the "foot on the wall" to the tractor accelerator that loaned Mariano to Aitor Esteban. They now camp together, both in the Basque Parliament and in the Congress of Deputies. The PNV's support for the State's General Budgets is further derived from the prevailing need to work together, and it supports and legitimises a government drowned by corruption and which has institutionalized corruption as a form of public management, contrary to the interests of a social majority, in exchange for the Basque Nationalist Party being a fundamental pillar in consolidating the cuts of the People's Party and validating the neoliberal economic policy of reducing the deficit at the expense of our rights. Thus, the People's Party has offered as a currency something that Euskadi is entitled to. Bad negotiation is when you have to beg for something that is rightfully yours. And yes, it's a milestone, which Mr. Azpiazu said. Of course. But a milestone in the process of building confidence between the People's Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, as Mr Alonso said. If the rub makes the affection, let us hope that this confidence building does not suppose that they take even more affection for the client and corrupt practices of the People's Party. Of course, they have already shown that they have learned, for example when they washed Mr Maroto's face and Mr Alfonso himself, saving them from the courts. Mr Esteban said yesterday, proudly, that the Basque Nationalist Party has reached agreements on R+D+i between the central government and the Basque government. Nor is it worth recalling that the latest budgetary agreements of the PNV in Madrid in R & D+i ended in sound scandals, as can be the case Epsilon, or Hiriko, where the electric car melted 17 million euros public. We would have liked the Basque Nationalist Party to have proposed the negotiation of the quota in terms of country and not in terms of party, since there was certainly room to force the Rajoy minority government to comply with the law, with the support of all the Basque parties. And we would have liked to have solved the problem of the quota without counterpart and without mortgages, without it being a currency of exchange, something that Euskadi corresponds to as part of its Statute of Autonomy. However, the Basque Nationalist Party has preferred to do so as if it were a fish auction, marketing among rotten sardines rights that correspond to all Basque citizens. The negotiation of the quota has not only been marked by this logic of managing the particular interests of the government party, but has also been marked by logics associated with other negotiations. Some related, such as high-speed train, and others related to other interests, such as those related to subsidizing the price of electricity for companies and thus satisfying the metal employer. This whole negotiation process has also coincided with 1 May, where the whole Euskadi trade union movement has called for a change of socio-economic policies, and in a period when the Basque Nationalist Party has been filled with the mouths of Gernika, but on the same 80th anniversary of the bombing of Gernika it does not fall in shame by supporting budgets that allocate zero euros in historical memory. As far as the Socialist Party is concerned, it is neither expected nor expected. That's right, to continue to deal in a different way with the right on one side and on the other, in a structural way. And, well, although we are sorry that this is the case, we believe that Basque citizenship should know that the negotiation of the quota is the price of the support of the Basque Nationalist Party for cuts, evictions, the lack of well-being of citizens and corruption. And it will continue to be, in view of the trend towards the new five-year law 2017-2021. Yesterday you said that there was still no agreement regarding the general budgets of the State between the PNV and the PP, but, paraphrasing García Márquez, this was only the chronicle of a death announced for the rights of all Basque citizens. A trade of rights between a party drowned by corruption and one that only pursues the interests of its particular Basque oasis, so far away from the reality and the day-to-day of a social majority of our people. But this isn't new. It is the same Basque Nationalist Party as ever: that of the embrace with Aznar, the one that reached agreements with Felipe González, the one that supported budgets of the Zapatero government that included cuts of 20% in education and health. The same one that nowadays seeks revenue, among others, for the employer of metal in its agreements in Madrid. Because, let's be clear, you know who benefits from that deal? Not to Basque citizenship, but to the metal employer, or to the builders who rub their hands with the high-speed train.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u4	I want you to finish it, Mr. Bollain.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u5	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u6	Thank you. Passing to the uncorrected teams, representing the Basque Potulag, Mr. Damborena, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u7	Thank you very much, Madam President. The truth is that after hearing the two speeches, I think we have agreed very well, there and here. Now, I've been a little surprised, even the president, I don't know... The subject was another one. Today we came to discuss or value the proposal of Bildu and Podemos to reach an agreement with the state negotiating the quota, and it seems that, once there has been an agreement, it bothers. But if you brought us here today to negotiate with the state – which, in the end, as far as I know, is the government of the People's Party, that of Mariano Rajoy, the one who is ruling there – if you until yesterday or until yesterday said that it was good and that it had to be done, I don't understand today why you put yourself like this, or I don't understand... Because they even had the possibility, since what they did not like was the agreement, if they do not like the agreement, of having made a compromise and bringing here that we discuss that we do not like the agreement, and that this House votes against the agreement that has been reached with the quota. Because the agreement that has been reached with the quota is the one that you defended when you were in Gipuzkoa and we in Álava, I remind you, to set an example! And you have come here today to tell us that Parliament approves a negotiating table on the quota, to negotiate with the state. Literal. That is the debate we have here today. I thought they were going to withdraw it, because, having agreed, then, we were left with the point. Moreover, if it was an agreement in which almost all the groups in this House agreed earlier, then I did not think it would be so bad for them that there would be an agreement. And what's surprising is that you tell us that, of course, the law is being enforced. Look, the law is enforced, but the laws are interpreted, and there are different interpretations. And you know that this quota law ten years ago introduced some novel articles that we already said were going to give rise to problems. And the problems with which they had agreed arose, which were a government of the PSOE presided over by Mr Rodríguez Zapatero and one of the PNV presided over by Mr Ibarretxe. Those who had agreed to this quota law were the first to disagree in the first liquidations. The ones who agreed to it. And then there were changes in the Basque Government and changes in the Spanish Government, and it is a problem of interpretation. From here it was interpreted in one way, and in the ministry, for in the end, the officials interpreted it from another. What seems to bother you is the support for the budgets, because it is what you two have both talked about most about here today. They didn't speak at the end of the quota. The budget agreement seems very bad to you. They think it's very bad because it's a deal with the People's Party. I'm just gonna ask you two one question. Today throughout this plenary there will be several points: are you sure that neither of your two groups has called us to negotiate any point? Are you sure? Why don't you check your groups? If this pact with the PP is so bad, to the saint of what they are calling every day! Or what, that if you deal with the People's Party is very good and if the People's Party deals with others is very bad? Look, we've agreed with the people we agree with and how we agree. What bothers you about the budget agreement, the 3.5 billion Y? Man, I know you're against Y, but let me say we're favorable from the beginning. Do you mind? We are in favour of it, we have always supported it and we will continue to support it, and all we hope is that, of course, until 2023 there will be budgets in Spain so that this implementation can be carried out within these deadlines with the investments envisaged, the governing body will govern. Rule who rules. Or what bothers you, that the electric fare...? Or did we not all agree that the electricity tariff had to be reviewed because it was reducing competitiveness for our companies and the employment of Basque companies? Does that sound bad to you, too? Or does it happen to you as when we agreed here on the budget of the Basque Government a month ago, which voted for almost all our amendments, but did it seem very bad to you that it was agreed with the People's Party? Of course, coming out here to defend that it is against an agreement that you would vote that it is complicated and complex. Now, you both have your merit! Much credit, especially Mrs Pinedo. Because, of course, criticizing the agreement that you were defending that we had to reach... You'll tell me that, anyway, you don't have your thing. That you brought an initiative to this House to tell us to come to that agreement; we reached the agreement, and it's really pissed off! I understand that... but, anyway, they could have saved him. They were pulling the point, and that was it. You didn't have to do all this staging, did you? And it tells us we're gonna sell stability. And I do, of course. Financial stability, with the agreement of the quota, for municipalities, deputies, the Basque Government and the Government of Spain. For the four institutions. And political and economic stability in the Basque Country and Spain. And you'll find it wrong, but, look, it's giving your results. And today we have record data on unemployment and social security membership. They're a record, they're very good, here and in Spain. And stability will bother you very much, but, in the end, it bears fruit, at least in what we care about, which is employment, which we have always said, and investments, which generate more employment and give more competitiveness to the country and our businesses. And, Mr. de Podemos, Mr. Bollain, a government based on corruption... As far as I know, not a single case of corruption has had the government of Mariano Rajoy. Not one. Not one. Now, I will tell you: in all parties there is gentuza; the difference is that in some they are cast out, and in others they are defended, which is their case. That's your case. And I'm going to tell you one thing. What worries me about this agreement, in part of your speech... Because the speech of both of you is the same, and you claim to defend the economic concert, but the speech you have made here is that this is a privilege that has been ripped off because there is a negotiation of budgets. Of course, this is what you two have come to say here. And I to the Basque Nationalist Party would also face that making these agreements, or putting them in budget times, out has difficult sale, because everyone in the end sells it as if it were a privilege, and that seems wrong to me. But, in any case, I encourage you, if you agree with the agreement that has been reached, to defend it. And if what they are in disagreement with the economic concert and the quota, say so. But what you can't come here to say is that we defend the economic concert, but then we're against the effects of the economic concert. And criticizing the agreements, be they economic concert – which in this case is not, but Law of the Cup –... , criticizing them as if it were a negotiation, a cake, and therefore giving arguments... Well, you... Well, yeah, well, say... Well, that's good. For you will know how you defend the economic concert here and out of here, because if you think that you will have to say that it is suppressed. What you can't pretend is to come and tell us here that the economic concert you defend very much, but that it's insolidary with the rest of the Spaniards, it works very badly... Yes, yes! That's not a defense of the economic concert. And I'm so sorry, we do defend him. We have always defended it, with an absolute majority or in a minority, and we are very happy that there will finally be financial stability in the Basque Country, that there will be an agreement on the liquidations of past quotas, and that we will have..., I hope that we will have a new five-year quota law when possible; that you will support it, that you will support it, and that you will support it in the Congress of Deputies, that you will have the opportunity to vote on it, and that you will of course resolve the interpretation problems that the last one who approved Mr Rodríguez Zapatero and Mr Ibarretxe has given us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u8	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u9	Well, we have to discuss today a motion that EH Bildu curiously registered almost three months ago, in February. That's what I could call a "deferred motion." And it's not the first time, eh! In fact, within a while with another initiative that we also have to discuss we will see that everything you had for today had been handled by the fastest procedure, which is that of the motion, but that those emergencies that you enter into will then put them in the freezer to use this rostrum as microwaves, and according to your media needs go out taking them out. What are we going to do to him! I think you're wrong about that strategy, because you're the first opposition group. I think it would be better for them to devote their seats to influencing the decisions that affect this country, but ultimately. Let us go a little into the subject of what was the initiative, not the budget debate in which you have entered this rostrum. Supposedly, the important thing for his coalition was Parliament's involvement in setting the criteria for agreeing the quota. So urgent, they left him to bring him to this rostrum when the others have already done their work. Because the initiative to be discussed today has expired – the spokesman for the People's Party has also said – and should have withdrawn it. They don't. There must be some reason why they didn't. I hope it's not because you're working under the ceiling that says "that reality doesn't spoil a good headline for you." You have told me as well as that reality is clumsy. It stuns reality, and you, maintaining some initiatives that don't make any sense. Because the operative part of your proposal, the one put to the vote... That, by the way, neither of the two groups that have intervened in this support has said what it consists of, not what is going to be put to the vote today, but the transactional to which you have come, that kind of support that you have given you so that you can update it... Because it was a totally outdated motion, and yesterday you did him the favor of putting an amendment of addition there, to say "where I say 'Diego', I say the same," and that EH Bildu could update a motion that had absolutely no meaning anymore. And that's why some other spokesperson has also been missed that you could keep it. We are going to talk about the Law of the Cup, and we are going to be able to pronounce all the groups on it. And we will use the same procedure, exactly as was done when Eusko Alkartasuna was part of the Basque Government, which negotiated the last Cup Law with a then socialist government in Spain. And exactly the same as when the left abertzale, who led the Gipuzkoa Diputation, participated in the last update of the economic concert with a government of the People's Party in Spain. And I hope you don't believe that Azkarraga was then subordinated to Solbes when he signed, or that Garitano was subordinated to Montoro in 2014. Anyway, I don't know what's different in the negotiating process at the time and now, and I only think of one difference: it's that neither Eusko Alkartasuna is now in the Basque Government, nor the abertzale left is at the head of the Gipuzkoa Diputation. And it seems that when a party is not, an agreement, even if it is institutional, then it does not serve it. Because you have come here to criticize – and you have already said so before me – primarily the budget. And I could get you into the debate, what happens is that we have thought that, as we already have representatives in the Congress of Deputies and are at this very moment in that debate, we are not going to repeat ourselves in this rostrum. We prefer to talk about the concert and the cup, and the need for what is institutional loyalty and its demand on both sides. Of the demand that we all owe, without exception, to get these issues out of the partisan cultas, because every time we forget about it, every time someone talks about getting cut off with our self-government, every time someone forgets what they have assumed that one day the Basques would decide to agree between us and the rest of the Spaniards to be able to develop our responsibility and also to be able to exercise solidarity, every time we do this, we charge the coffers of those who would like to prune our ability to decide on our things. That is why, in the face of that speech, the Socialists in Euskadi will once again make the same speech, now that we are in charge of the agreement on the quota in the Government, which we did when Eusko Alkartasuna was in the Government, or when Bildu was in the Gipuzkoa Diputation. The same. That is, that we defend the dialogue, the agreement and the pact between the Basques and the rest of Spain as the most effective formula that has allowed the development of our government, which is reflected in the Statute and in the economic concert, and which involves exercising our responsibility in the matter of income and our solidarity in sharing expenses. And that having reached those agreements translates into prosperity for our citizens, in the form of public services such as Osakidetza, public school, income guarantee income, Ertzaintza... Own instruments that we manage ourselves. We therefore welcome the fact that the governments of Spain and Euskadi have put an end to a decade of discrepancies in this area and that they are laying the foundations for not having them in the next five years, governing those who rule in one place or another. Because this is their value: that these agreements overcome the conjunctures and needs of each one in each place. What has influenced the need of the People's Party in Madrid? We have no doubt. Because in the previous five years he demonstrated a null will for an agreement not on this, but on any other matter. That there might also be a need for a former socialist government? I don't take it away as an argument if someone wants to use it (as the hemeroteca usually does...). Although I would recall that when the five-year law had to be updated in 2011, that Spanish Government was also in a situation of parliamentary necessity, and there was no agreement. And that neither the PNV, then in the opposition in Euskadi, considered it as important as it is now. But anyway, if that's what it is, we all have it. As for those who try to interpret that this motion, which we are debating today in delay, can answer other questions that are not political or media needs that the proponents have in the current information context. Therefore, what I think we should be doing today is ratifying ourselves to welcome the end of incommunicado communication between governments, because it is their obligation, that of both, from due institutional loyalty, and, above all, from loyalty to the citizens, who are ultimately to benefit from the agreements we have reached in those institutions. And that is where we are, Mrs Pinedo, although we are aware that your parliamentary strategy, the one that you have designed, is to try to none of the socialists, to make clamps with Podemos, and to seek one way or another agreement with the People's Party. Although, yes, then you go and pull out the banner in front of your seats. I am convinced that throughout the legislature they will change, and that they will realize that in that strategy Elkarrekin We can look for their space in certain areas, that the People's Party does it in its own, and that it is you who are staying out of focus, even though you are the first group of the opposition. It already happened to them, look back, in the previous legislature, where the socialists went to mark the script, proposing tax reforms that would facilitate more income, and social initiatives to allocate these resources, such as energy poverty or the right to housing. You seem to continue to insist on the same path. What is left to us is to invite them to join the path of agreements, to lose their fear. And, although the government in Euskadi today certainly does not satisfy you, because you are not here and that is natural, as the socialists do not like the one in Spain, what we can demand from any citizen, they like more or less one government or another, is that they fulfil their obligation to make proposals and reach agreements that end up moving into their lives. And that is what the Basque Government (the one that is there) has done with the Government of Spain (the one that is there). And there are many things that we will have to agree on in this way that this agreement is now being presented, which is that of legality and political will to do so. From the other debate, from the debate on the general budgets in Spain and all this, we already know that you would like to dedicate here a full monograph, because it seems that you do not get enough speaker with your two representatives in Congress, it is a necessity that you have but that we do not share.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Mrs. Gorospe, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u11	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, good morning to all of you. Damborenea jauna, I tell you..., I give you the explanation of what you don't understand. He said: "It is that I cannot understand how, if three months ago EH Bildu makes an inquiry to the lehendakari asking him to agree with the Government of the People's Party and to negotiate to liquidate the outstanding quotas and to advance in the five-year law of the quota, how is it possible that now that he remembers it, then Mrs Pinedo is so so sosolivant, that those of EH Bildu may be sosolivant." Why? I tell you why it is: because they are not in agreement, because they have not succeeded. Like this. The problem is neither with whom it has been agreed, nor the budgets, nor the content, because all the criticisms have come... The speech that Mrs Pinedo has made here, has it turned out to be unknown to any of you? Egina zegoen hitzarmena egin aurretik, adotu aurretik, negotiatzera joan aurretik... He's keeping him from the berdin hemen gaur. That is the problem they had, because they raise it in terms of political erosion in the image of the Government of the Lehendakari Urkullu and the Basque Nationalist Party. Es ha sido el objectivo. And that's the papellet you've got here today: bring an old-fashioned reason to argue. And as you said before, you tried to work it out by means of half-direction so that it could continue its day and charge. What is the meaning of a motive, a consequence of a three months ago interpelation, which is old, when the agreement has been just made? If you'd done it by logic and done it honestly, it would have to be out of your mind. I thought the spot would be removed this morning, but no, it was. Then you plan, you say "el PNV de siempre," Bollain. Of course, but that's a virtue from political point of view. We continue to answer the needs of the moment, the needs of the moment, but everyone knows that we do what we say in the Eucalyte Party. Prentsa irakurtzen, gaur goizean, hau irakurri izan dut, éta ez will say Euzko Alderdi Jeltzaleko ordezkariak, BNGko ordezkariak: "Urkullu exercises as president of a nation". Atzo betan esandakoa BNGko bozeramaileak. Sozialist Party Katalaneko ordezkariak: "As always, the PNV has demonstrated political skill. As always, the PNV has demonstrated political skill, discretion and effectiveness." The usual PNV, yes. The usual PNV. And, in front of these speeches, we find that of its leader in Euskadi, who is in Madrid and says: "The PNV has traded in terms of party and not in terms of country". What I would like to know is which country Nagua Alba refers to, because it gives me the impression that with the agreement that the Basque Government has achieved in relation to the quota and the agreement that the Basque Nationalist Party has achieved in other areas..., what gives me the feeling is that Nagua Alba's concern is not precisely in terms of the representative of Euskadi and what the agreements have meant for Basque society. You would have to clarify whether you think in Spanish code or in Euskadi code. And for a moment, I've had the same doubt with you, Mrs. Pindo. Same doubt. I did not know what was the business of the Spanish budget, or the welfare of the euscal society; for after the Confederation of the Confederate, and the Confederation of his party, I did not know what it was to do next day. Euscal's welfare, I doubt it. If you've also known or read the agreement obtained by the Jelt Party to assume the budgets of Madrid after you've known them... To come here to make that speech, I doubt your responsibility. You said it yesterday. This isn't a coincidence. How's the coincidence? It is causality, because it has worked, to achieve an agreement in the camp of institutions, and to obtain a treaty which is favorable to the Basque Union in the circle of parties. causality, work, get consequences, work, take results. That's what you did. You say the deal, we've been studying the subject, corruption, Catalonia, the damaged ones... you mentioned it. But if it be with the same corruption with Popular Party, when you agree in this legislature, in the grand assemblies, when you ask us to mediate, what is the matter? Or is he alone involved in what you say and accounted as you say when the Eunct Party is a Jedric? You guys are free and we're free. And so are you, Mr. Bollain; you, your team, did it just last week, you'd be in agreement, you'd come out with the support of the EH Collectors, and agree to it as is natural. But it's pure cynicism to use it when we do it, and besides, it has no pills. When you say that it is against the rights and nations to decide, how can you say that? We ask for indifference, and that we may speak to us, and give political answer to political questions. And what you plan on is political lockdown. How are we gonna make it? How are we gonna get a political negotiation if there's no talk in every area? How? You're saying that the object has been a bad budget, that the coupe hasn't been enough, that it's been dark. The chairman of the coupa, when they began to work, first in January, a new one, a technical committee, gave it to this legislature. At the beginning of this parliament, at the Council of Ogres and Previouss, he said: It is a technical crew, and its members, this one and this one, not in the dark places, the agreement has been among the institutions, and the first new one was here. It's just that you don't like it because you're not there. And now you're asking him to come to the parliament, and you know better than you know that the organizations that have the power to do this business are the Waccinations of the Basque and the Three Territories, and that they don't work. And you've never asked that before because you're not there right now. You say: "El PNV no pone no doubt este esquema de surbinción." The how many times you've heard about the rebs of the Jestric Party and the funk, the real difference, the genuine. But we have one thing to show, that it is not enough to make politics to have political will, but only that political will serves to make a political speech. We have a clear notion that to act in politics, to action, from generation to action, and to do what the people ask of us, we need a political determination, even if we hear it, to act forward in order to obtain ends for the sake of the Basques, and to know that working for Euchardi may often harm themselves in other quarters. But before the interests of the party, the political determination of the Basque interests. We must overcome the mere political will, which serves the political discourse, and move to political determination. Regardless of what you can blame, of what we have to hear, put Euskadi's interests ahead of us, of course, at all times to the party's own interests, assuming the risk in image and assuming that we have to pay, if necessary, the political invoice; that I doubt if it will be so, because I believe that Basque society understands, understands and applauds the agreement, but assuming that. Political determination, not just will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Passing over to the answer shift, representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u13	Yes, good morning again. Well, one thing we've achieved is that the People's Party, the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party use the same defense strategy. The same defence strategy, exactly the same, Mr Damborenea. That if this is old... Is he really old? Is it as old as you came down here today as you came down? Is he so old, he's in all the headlines today? Is this old? Man, please. Tell me you weren't interested in talking about it today, which is another matter, but old nothing. It's very current. Mr Damborenea, that is a problem of interpretation. I've already told you! If Mr Alfonso said so at that conference you had at the Forum Europe! No, it was because the Spanish government had no money! It's not a problem with interpretation. It is that the Spanish Government has received an excellent ten years of funding, in zero interest, from the Basques and Basques. That was the situation, Mr. Damborenea. And you know it as well as I do. And on top of that now he's going to return it on comfortable terms. And it's true, on top of that he's not going to give it back: he's going to make a withdrawal of the coupons that are going to be paid. That is, not a euro, not a euro from Madrid to Euskadi. Not a euro, Mr Damborenea. We're still in the same situation. Well, since you're telling me that we've come to say that the concert is a privilege, and I'm almost tearing my shirt here, saying that how can we say... You're telling me I said that? But have you really listened to your colleagues in the Spanish People's Party (Mrs. Cifuentes and other presidents of different autonomous communities) at some point, when their pockets touched them, what did they say about the economic concert? I don't think I have to say "privilege." And that's what members of your party have said. Members of your party. And this parliamentarian (I, Leire Pinedo) has never said that, and you know it perfectly well, Mr Damborenea. Never, never, because it's not. And I didn't want to move that here. What I have moved is that unfortunately, after ten years of disagreement, the agreement has come because the People's Party had an a-cu-cian-te need to take the budgets out of the state. The agreement has not reached because a law enforcement has been given as the law dictates, because for ten years the state governments have passed the law..., they have made word with the law, because they were not interested, because it was much easier to have financing free et amore, as said in Basque. Huh? And this agreement came about because Mr Rajoy had a specific need to draw some budgets from the state, not otherwise. That's the reality, Mr. Damborenea. And don't tell us another Indian, which is what he usually does. Socialist Party, well, again with the same...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u14	Silence, please...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u15	That's it. Thank you, Mr. President. The same argument: that our strategy is... Well, he criticized our strategy. We each use the strategy that we believe is timely to make policy. Some of us make motions, and others go out here to defend the agreements that other parties make (in this case PNV-PP), as you did a few weeks ago. Some of us make proposals, and others are dedicated to being palm trees of those who rule with them. Each has its own strategy, Mrs. Castelo. And you make me history. Look, you're not going to talk to me about history either, because I also have memory, and I have contact with the people who were here before me, and I know when and how things were done. But, I insist, this agreement has been due to a need of the People's Party. Nothing to do with the welfare of the Basques and nothing to do with bilaterality, Mrs Castelo. Absolutely nothing. Madrid has dictated when and Madrid has dictated how. Or is it that they really want me to believe – and I said it in my first intervention – that it was random that it was yesterday? If that's bilateral agreement, why am I so remixed in taking pictures? Why am I so remixed in taking pictures when the agreements are signed? Because, as far as I know, everyone wanted to take pictures whenever they signed a deal! But this deal seemed like nightly... It was done at night, they didn't want to take pictures... , because it was a discreet thing, according to the words of some of the people who were there. Socialists don't like the Spanish government. Yes, yes, if I do not doubt it, at least the socialists who are in Madrid and say what they say! But you are here in the end in a government that has reached an agreement because your party has agreed on the budgets of the People's Party, Mrs Castelo. That's right. And since you tell me that EH Bildu followed the Socialist Party... Well, society greatly appreciated the tasks of the Socialist Party, and I refer to the facts. Mrs. Gorospe, really, I understand your attitude, half a minute, but I understand that it's because of the purchase, no. We are clear to defend the rights of Esscals here in Madrid and everywhere. And that's our job. And the budgets that this agreement imposes do it directly against the rights of the Basque People. PP's policies have directly opposed the rights of eroscal citizens, and will do so: at work-politics, in the field of pensions, in social policies... And that can't be denied. It's there, really, there it is. And really... Esquema de surbedinción. Yeah, I said it and it was like that. And I said, when Madrid wanted to, not when this government wanted to... The court-house clerk would repeat to me several times in our conversations during the preceding law: There's nothing to do because the Navy government don't want to do it. Where is the ultimate reality there? Where is searchivity when a law is fulfilled...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u16	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u17	... Only when Madrid wants it? Where's the searchivity?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u18	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u19	There's no union.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u20	Mrs. Pindo...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u21	And this is an example of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Together, Mr. Bollain, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u23	Thanks again. Mr. Damborenea, what bothers us is your party plunged into corruption. What bothers us, Mr Damborenea, is the first party accused in the history of democracy. What bothers us, Mr. Damborenea, is the Taula operation, the Lezo case, the Gürtel case, the Imelsa case, the Aquamed case... What bothers us, Mr Damborenea, is a party with more than 850 imputed members. What bothers us, Mr Damborenea, is a party whose president, Mr Rajoy, was called to testify before the courts. And you say that the pact between PP and PNV benefits Euskadi. I repeat that it is for the partisan ends of the PNV and for a People's Party drowned by corruption that it benefits. It benefits the interests of the metal employer, or the big builders, who rub their hands with the high speed train. They also say that it is a good agreement for Euskadi, and from our parliamentary group we say that this agreement only supports and validates the People's Party of cuts and labour reforms that drive redundancies and wage cuts. Have you accounted for the cost of this pact? In five years, labor income has lost 5.1 points, 992.8 million euros exactly. It consolidates what is called "waste work" in the economic sphere. Does this agreement benefit the workers of the residences, the workers of the hotels? Does this agreement benefit people, temporary workers in Education or Osakidetza? Does this agreement benefit people who perceive GIR? No, no, No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Mrs. Castelo, a question for you: Isn't this the quota that both Susana Díaz and Pedro Sánchez said was a privilege? Isn't this the same coupon your party was talking about just over a year ago? Such statements appear and disappear like the Guadiana in the mouth of his barons. Clarify yourself first before you try to teach anyone lessons. And, Mrs. Gorospe, all political skill. Opportunity, lack of scruples and marketing of interests, too. Are you going to argue, Mrs Gorospe, that the Basques are better for some special reason, that the rest of the state's citizenship deserves to suffer anti-social budgets from the People's Party for business to be done on behalf of the Basques and Basques? First-class citizens and second-class citizens? No complex in defending all citizens and a multi-national state in which social justice is for all people. Cynicism, Mrs Gorospe, is to compare an agreement of the opposition to scratch social progress, against its government, with saving the face of a corrupt government like that of the People's Party in Madrid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u24	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Basque Populars, Damborena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u25	Mr. Bollain, if it's okay for you to hire someone, defraud Social Security and pay him in black and applaud him, that's where you and your party are. Sure! If it suits you that someone who is not entitled to an official protection home be awarded and resell it, and hit a ball of 30,000 euros, you continue to defend it. It's gonna still look bad on us all the time. Mrs. Pinedo, same defense strategy, we didn't want to talk about this... Jo! Well, I don't know! I don't know who doesn't want to talk about the quota deal today! You did not want to talk about the quota agreement, because what you brought us here today is that we agreed to reach an agreement with the Government of Spain on the quota law. That's what you brought us to vote on. And we told him he's old because he's already agreed. You've come to ask him to remember... He's already awake, that's why he's old. What's going on is that you didn't come to that today. He didn't come here to talk about the quota. It tells me the bilaterality. Well, look, one of the problems of bilaterality, which exists precisely in the Joint Committee on the Cup, is that if you do not agree, it will not be resolved. And we've been out of agreement for ten years precisely because of bilaterality. And when I... Because I did put it at the time in the last legislature: because we will have to look for some arbitration or something! Because, of course, this bilaterality thing looks great, but if there's no agreement in the end, how do you solve it? How do you solve it? Of course, of course, is that bilaterality, which is that two agree... Well, if you never come to terms, you never solve a problem, do you? And here we do have an example of what is pure and hard bilaterality. That's why we've been like this for ten years, not agreeing with those who agreed to that Cup Law, eh!, not the others. And you call me "money trouble." Of course we've had money problems! Hey, I'm not gonna remind you how we picked up the Spanish government in 2012, am I? I mean, I'm not gonna explain it to her. The first decisions, on 30 December, are urgent, in order to be able to pay the officials. And the priority was to save the welfare state. And today, as things have gone better because they have done well, there is money for investments that were standing still to be resumed. I don't know why it bothers you...! You tell me that you defend... Look, if you link the cup... anyone who links the cup or the concert to the market is against the cup and the concert. So clear. The one who criticizes him, or the one who wears medals. In both cases. And I asked you a question: Do you agree, or are you against the agreement that has been reached on the quota? Because he didn't tell us. Do you agree, or are you against it? Is that all right with you? Is that all right with you? It is clear that when there is an agreement both parties have to give in, but I have not heard you tell us if it is okay or if it is wrong. And what I have to tell you is that I think it's okay. It seems to me that's what we've defended from the Basque Country before all of us, now I don't know... I don't know now. I repeat, because that's what you were defending when you were in the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council. And we continue to defend the same and maintain the same. And we feel that there is, reasonably, financial stability; that we have closed the previous financial years and that there can be financial stability for the next five years. In the Socialist Party I am very upset when I speak about Mr Zapatero, but, of course, it is another of the problems that was created was with the Law on Autonomic Financing of the Common Regime approved by Mr Zapatero, which also affected here and which later here did not agree with Mr Zapatero with Mr López. Of course, it's just that things were the way they were! And, as I believe that in politics there is a solution to problems, I repeat that the agreement that has been reached seems very good to me, it seems very good to us, and let us hope that the remaining problems will continue to be resolved in the future. But above all, we hope that those budgets which seem so bad to you in Madrid will have continuity next year, because if they do not have continuity next year and subsequent ones, then the investments and the agreements envisaged will not be able to be carried out or implemented. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u26	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u27	I think I'll be very brief. Mrs Pinedo was scared when she said if she was old her proposal, if she wasn't current. If you know perfectly well that the proposal, which has not bothered to explain either the original or the transactional... He has not bothered to explain why some things have fallen and others are maintained or modified or changed, or quite the opposite. I mean, he hasn't even bothered. You know perfectly well that the agreement, the motion you brought us, has completely lost its meaning. And to what you came here is not to talk about the quota, because you did not talk about the quota; to what you came here is to talk, to criticize the agreement and to talk about the budgetary agreement that has occurred in Madrid between the People's Party and the Basque Nationalist Party. That is why we have told you that your proposal is old: because of the content, not because of what you wanted to say here. That's a problem. I have already told you that your strategy..., that you may have what you want; I have only said that it seems to me that you are wrong, that you are wrong. I already know that truth bothers, I know, and that it usually causes rumors on its bench, but we prefer to have initiatives, when we are in opposition, that can be transferred to the citizens. Those things that are talked about covering the need, for example, for energy poverty, or the right to housing. That you're aiming for rebuf? Great. If it doesn't seem bad to us, and neither should it seem to you to enter into that path of agreement! I think you wouldn't have to be afraid to leave that comfort zone where you've been settled for a long time. We do not care, and we are not afraid, and we also assume the responsibility to be able to be in a government and make decisions that have the consequence of being able to facilitate the lives of our citizens. I believe that you are wrong, and I will tell you as many times as I see it necessary, as long as you do not change your form or strategy. And to close with the spokesman for Podemos, who was talking to me about what has been done here is to agree in different ways with the right, we should remind him that this is what you should have motivated when, having the possibility that there was a president who was not on the right, you decided to vote no. And that if someone later had the opportunity to run for election again it was because partisan interests were anticipated in the face of the interests of the citizens, because someone believed something that afterwards the ballot boxes did not give him. And that's what it means to think of deferred, which is what we can usually use in other stories. And then, of course, he comes here and he unties me. It unwraps me and says, "This is what benefits the elites, the employers," and so on. What benefited the elites and the employer was surely that attitude that Podemos had a year ago. It also hurts them to tell him, it bothers them to tell him, but it's the truth. Because then, of course, it bothers us that we support... , or seems to be, that supporting a party, or reaching an agreement with a particular party, is supporting a particular issue. I would ask you what it means to support 75% of the economic proposals that the People's Party has made in this Parliament to approve the budgets of the Basque Government. Because you and EH Bildu are in it, in agreement with the People's Party and in approving your proposals. So, I don't know why they criticize from one side to the other. I think the agreement is good if the procedure is good. And that the procedure is not good or bad whether one participates in it or not, which is what seems to happen to the proponents of the original motion, rather than the transactional one. And that they are now also forgetting, for example, the subject of Navarre, surely because yesterday their spokesman left saying that, finally, they in what they are at this time are in maintaining their negotiating line; that they are working with their technicians on the subject of reaching an agreement on the subject of the convention, which is what they have to focus on; that it is not for them in this case to come to terms with the agreement that the Basque Government has adopted with the Government of the State; that it will be this Government itself... In short, that also has made that in the transactional presented today Navarra has already fallen from the total spectrum. And finally, Mr. Bollain, you're so predictable that you were saying, "I'm asking you a question." Well, look how glad I am that you asked me that question, because I have brought you the answer in writing, that I am going to read it to you textually. The Basque socialists – so that there is no doubt about it – have always defended the singularity of the concert, which is part of the same pact that gave rise to the Statute of Gernika, which has been the one that has provided this country with the greatest prosperity. The Socialist Party of Spain as a whole has recognized this uniqueness by including it in the Granada Declaration, which I see you do not know, but I have given you a copy of this plenary session.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Mrs. Gorospe, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u29	EUR 1.4 billion is the amount that Euskadi will be saved in accordance with the quota agreement as a precondition for starting to speak. The precondition that the Basque Nationalist Party imposed and demanded on the Government of Spain; to speak with the Government of Euskadi, that once and a thousand times, Mr Damborenea, that once and a thousand times he was asking, the will to reach that bilateral agreement and that they would come to agree. Mrs. Pindo, you have to sign it and they both have to sign it. How else can it be? It is impossible to proclaim that they should not both sign difference and difference. It is impossible to claim political will and political solutions, and to lock and shut up political traffic. It's impossible. Neither of them is possible. You are in two absolute contradictions. Bilaterality requires the signature, agreement and signature of both parties. Otherwise, there's no bilaterality. And if political solutions to political problems are to be sought, in all areas of life, it has to be through political dialogue and not through the blockade. These are contradictions that you have. Condition prior to outstanding liquidations of the quota, and more questions: concretions of the works of the Basque Y, reduction of the Basque electric bill... By the way, Bollain, you said that that was agreed to satisfy the employer. Look, I'm gonna tell you something. Do you remember the ACB conflict? It was the representatives of the workers who, please, asked to mediate so that the electricity bill would fall, so that competitiveness could be gained and their jobs could be stable. Stability, peace, stability, investment and employment, which is the priority of the Basque Government, Euzko Alderdi Jeltzalearena ere bai. What happens is that your scheme is a different one, and when we have it in mind, the nation and the people, and País, what you say, our end is that our will, our will, begins here and ends, and one knows where and what it is. It's just a matter of time to clear it up. This is unstoppable, una statusón's e-mail, that's all. Ours is this: start, end, destination... and it's our concern, and it's our business to defend their budgets, and it's our book that's all euskal, the cup, the whole deal, the whole company that gets into the deal, they're always in the book of eupscal and they're done that way. Now, as for the budgets of 2017 with the Popular Party, Pedro Sánchez was offered to it in his book... and everywhere, and this is known by the people. "You will say all that is, whatever you like, but that's the way it is. And you say "un accerdo para beeficis a las élietes." Por los passa nive, pass them? Who's the new Euskal railway network that's gonna do her any favor? Basque society, national society, everyone, even corporations. To all the citizens. That's what we do. And in politics, there must be arguments, and we must also know how to profit the moment. We've discussed the rhyme before: "En pollítica tan impportante como el agumento es la portentunidad del Momento," and moreover he has rhyme, agumento y ostunidad del Momento. And there is an example of obstinacy: it is sad to start running water, and then to repent of it is useless. That's what they say on the farm: it is sad to start running when the water is gone; there is no water left. That's what you have to say. Since I have but a short time, I should like to say that your motion is called Navarre, and I don't know how much you care, but you haven't even mentioned it in the first round or in the second. And we're going to end our rounds with the Jest Party of Euko and our group of Madrid happy because of the agreement we've made in the institutional court, and we'd like to see that we'd like to have the agreements we've made on the Basque deck, and that in a short time there'd be a similar deal in Navarro, as far as their contribution is concerned, that would be justice, and that would be our will, like the Jeltzian Party, and he seems to have forgotten it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH Collect and the middle-direction that Podemos signed together. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 29; the opponents are 45; white, 0; abstations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u31	So, it doesn't seem like the half-correction's been accepted. Second point on the subject list: "Motion, Joseph Ramon Becero Carollo, introduced together as members of the Podemos team, about the initiative taken by the big economy. Discipline and final resolution. It's the proposer's turn. Mr. Becerra, it's your word to introduce and get rid of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u32	Good morning, everyone. The second point of this plenary session is to talk about the Basque economy, how to adapt the Basque economy to the principles of the circular economy that come to us from the European Union. A month and a half ago from Elkarrekin we asked the Environment Adviser to answer us about what policies and actions the Government intended to implement, due to the new demands and obligations that will soon come to us from the European Union in terms of selective collection, recycling and composting. And in particular we asked him a question that he did not get an answer, and that is how we will develop the circular economy in Euskadi if we dedicate ourselves to burying or burning the wealth that contains our waste. The motion before us today seeks to answer that question. It is a motion that proposes concrete and feasible measures to make the Basque economy more sustainable and more competitive; it is a motion that seeks to promote another way of addressing the issue of urban waste in the Basque competition area, and it is ultimately an opportunity for Euskadi to abandon the tail van of European environmental policies. Because when we talk about economy and waste we have to talk about employment. If all recyclable materials were recycled in Euskadi, 2,500 jobs would be created. In addition, if landfill replacement were to be done by recycling plants and not by incinerators, another 880 additional jobs would be generated. While Zabalgarbi's incinerator, for example, only generates 70. These are data from the European Commission. But if we talk about economics, we also have to talk about wealth creation. The Commission itself has warned of the risk that the European economy may suffer from the shortage of certain essential raw materials, including most metals, which unfortunately are missing raw materials from Euskadi. What prevents us from creating wealth and employment in this thesis? Well, implementing the circular economy's measures to create employment and economic activity means no longer considering waste as undesirable, which must be destroyed at all costs, and becoming perceived as valuable raw materials. And I'm going to give you an example that everyone can understand, that of glass. In the 1980s, glass factories throughout the Iberian Peninsula suffered a severe crisis as a result of entry into the European common market. The only way they could improve their competitiveness was to save on raw materials and energy. How? Recycling the waste glass. And so it was in our towns and cities that the Iglos appeared. They were not put by the municipalities; they were put by the glass industry itself. And today Gipuzkoa, for example, is the most recycled territory in the whole state, around 80% of all the glass it consumes. Hundreds of people live from the recycling of glass, amen of the 3,000 people who make up the staff of the Vidrala factory in Llodio. Can you imagine that nowadays some enlightened would have decided that in their streets they don't put on the iglos, because they tarnish the landscape and remove parking lots? For in those we are now in Gipuzkoa, and it is the 21st century. Therefore, in the case of urban waste, the circular economy needs to reduce, reuse and recycle, and, on the contrary, requires both landfill and incineration to be delayed. The dumping for what it means to bury raw materials, and the incineration for what it means to destroy them. That is why in our motion we propose that a targeted rate be applied to charge both the spill and the incineration, because so much mounts, mounts so much. And I say this because from some institutional areas there has been a long time in the game of waste and deception, saying that incinerators end up with landfills. Nothing more false than this statement: for every three tons of waste being burned, a ton of slag comes out of the incinerator, which has to be taken back to a landfill, and a hundred kilos of toxic ash that has to be confined to a safety cell for hazardous materials. And, already put to disassemble frauds and erroneous beliefs, I will once again clarify, as I did in my previous inquiry, that incineration, also called euphemistically energy valorization, not only does not produce energy, but destroys it. Burning a ton of paper like this requires spending 626 calories, while recycling it would save us 1,513 calories, which are what we need to convert a tree into this sheet of paper. It is enough to apply the first principle of thermodynamics to become aware of fraud. And we are lagging behind Europe. I believe that the start-up of the Zubieta incinerator, in the case of incineration, combined with the existing one in Zabalgarbi, is a new step behind Euskadi vis-à-vis the most advanced countries in Europe. On the one hand we're going to have to open up new dumps, as I explained, something we were supposed to get rid of. In Bizkaia, the Zabalgarbi slags are already being deposited in an old industrial waste dump in Zalla, and the Zabalgarbi ashes are being taken to another hazardous waste dump located in the zornotzarra neighbourhood of Euba. I invite you to pass by nearby, and so you will know what it smells like from an incinerator. It has also been said that incineration is modern and ecological because it comes from Germany. False once more. I said this in my first speech on this issue: while in Germany they recycle 80% of waste and burn 20%, here we are going to burn 80% and we are going to recycle only 20%. And this is going to make us fail to comply with all the European waste guidelines sooner rather than later. Last March the European Parliament adopted a report in which a number of amendments to the Waste Framework Directive were made. Among them, it is proposed to increase the target for selective collection of urban waste by 2030 from 65 % to 70 %, and the target for recycling of waste from the yellow container to 80 %. That is why we also asked the adviser last March how he intends to achieve these objectives, with which they are already set out in the waste plan of the Basque Government itself. Because if we recycle, we leave the incinerator without any waste to burn, and it seems hard that that's going to happen. Because when an incinerator like Zubieta is designed to burn 220,000 tons of waste and all over Gipuzkoa barely produces 260,000, the accounts are clear: either recycling, or incineration; or circular economy, or incineration; or wealth and employment, or incineration. That is why, in our motion, we call for the establishment of a subsidy line for those municipalities that, despite everything, continue to bet decisively on recycling and selective collection. Because compliance with European legislation will require us to continue to work on the street to make people aware that recycling is good and that separating waste from our homes is even better, both for the environment and for the country's economy. And that's why I am sorry, as a sensitized citizen, to see that in Euskadi, especially for a few years here, the trend that some municipalities and parliaments are following is precisely the opposite: they still regard urban waste as a problem, and that's why they seek quick and decisive solutions, such as burning it, without counting that every kilo of garbage that goes into an incinerator is a kilo of wealth that we destroy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u33	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the Basque Potula Group, Mrs. lópez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u34	Good morning, counselors, president, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Becerra, you will agree with me that it seems to me too much to simplify this issue in a simple speech in the House. In any case, I have read with great interest the inquiry that you presented in this House, and there are some facts that have surprised me of the inquiry itself. We were told nothing more to begin the questioning than that of most Members of Parliament which does not ring a bell or interest us in this matter. I can tell you that the Members of the Group of the European People's Party seem to us, to be interested in us and to share everything that the circular economy entails and the opportunities it gives us. Besides, the circular economy is not new. There have already been previous generations that made circular economy. We didn't call it a circular economy, but we did. And I can tell you that those of us who lived in rural areas on top of it did much more, because we lacked many things. So, circular economy has been made, what happens is that we didn't call it that. And we have had a period of time when consumption has taken us on other undesirable roads, on the other hand, and that we have now realized that they were indeed wrong. But you also said in the interpellation that the circular economy... , defined it as the three mistakes (the one to reduce, the one to recycle and the one to reuse), but there is a previous premise, which is prevention, to which you do not refer but which is basic and fundamental, and I think that we must also focus on that. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we can say that today in today's Europe we have two very important challenges. One is the environmental challenge, taking care of the planet, because in it our life goes. And the other is the job. And the circular economy responds to these two challenges. Because so far we all know – and this is what has been done most – the linear economy, which is to extract, produce, consume and pull, and now I think it is going to have a lot of strength, and I think that in this we must commit ourselves, in which the circular economy is established, where we extract, produce, consume and the residue we transform it so that, again, in the line of consumption. By this, we actually reduce the residue, which is what pollutes us, and generate an economy in the transformation of the residue, and employment. The circular economy is therefore an alternative to the current model of production and consumption, generating green employment and other business opportunities and economic growth. That's where we're at. And what do we need for a powerful development of the circular economy? Essentially a major change in consumer behaviour. This is basic and fundamental. Without consumers and citizens, without the neighbours of the environment, it is impossible for the circular economy to work. Faced with the use and consumption model, it is very important. And they also have to be well informed and not inform them against. And you, for example, in both the interpellation and here, have used the circular economy against other systems, such as incineration. And I'm not going to tell you it's the best system, but it's necessary right now. Because also that incineration also makes circular economy, because it's burning the rest, the remaining fraction. Therefore, if we do the right separation, which is what we must strive for and those are the policies that we must use, therefore, Mr Becerra, we do so there too. That it's not perfect? Well, maybe. It can be improved. But it's not one thing or the other. Not at the moment, because we don't have the circular economy developed to its full potential. Therefore, we have a transit period, and in that transit period we need other strategies. And that's not bad. Besides, look, I think we need to generate the consumer empathy, positive empathy. I mean, not one thing or the other. Everything is necessary, and it is necessary to report in this transit, because, if not, in the end it will say: "We are now! It's a freak. I don't care, I don't do anything, I don't bring anything, I don't collaborate..." And it's very important. Consumer cooperation is very important, industry cooperation is very important, and government cooperation is very important. Because, look, we legislate in Brussels, it is legislated in the member states, it is legislated in the autonomous communities; where it applies is in the territories and in the municipalities, and it is applied with the collaboration of all the agents that participate. Therefore, I think we have to be very aware of what we play when we talk about this, and to whom we address, and have a very clear message to the citizen, because, if not, he will not cooperate, he will reject it. And you don't want that, neither do I. So, since we don't want that, we're not doing that game. I think that's important. Then we need a firm commitment on the part of the administrations, as I said, sensitive to this new reality, perfectly committed and perfectly coordinated. And then there are other factors, such as innovation. Without innovation, we are unable to develop techniques for processing such waste. And that's essential, and that's why they also have to collaborate as important agents as innovation centers or university, because I think it's vital on this issue. And new technologies in services, processes, business models... This requires a major change, and therefore it is not easy to install either. You don't switch to the circular economy from today to tomorrow. This is a traffic! And, anyway, the European Union is also designing a route of how to approach this. I don't think we're any more lynx here than anyone. We know more or less what we want to do; what we want to do is do it right, and then we know what we want to do. And if we're gonna have to talk positive, please. That this is not against anything! We certainly don't understand it that way. We think it's an opportunity. You told us to adapt the Basque economy to the circular economy. No, no, What we are going to adapt to the economy is the circular economy. We incorporate it into the economic world, into the world of business, into the world of transformation, into the world of employment that will also generate us. We don't have to adapt the whole economy to the circular economy! I don't know, at least I don't understand it that way. And, what I was telling you, in the incinerators waste is burned, but from the remaining fraction, once recycled and separated as much as possible. And there you have to make a lot of effort, a lot of effort. And that is what the report that Brussels is doing with the Member States tells us, and it is what it tells us in the report that it has done about Spain. And it describes the main challenges we have in Spain: improving water policy since the implementation of environmental policy, improving waste management (we have a deficit there, and we have the potential to develop a circular economy, and we have important work to develop); it also tells us that we must improve environmental taxation, as well as reduce harmful subsidies for the environment. Where do we get opportunities? Using the potential of nature and its capital, of great value (the great value nature offers us is an opportunity potential in Spain); strengthening eco-innovation and efficiency in the use of resources; disseminating good practices used in areas with water scarcity, and promoting greater reuse of waste water. And it tells us where we are excellent in Spain, because we also have excellent points. And look, there are many aspects, but there is one that I liked because it is very close, and it tells us: "The sustainable urban model established in cities like Vitoria, Capital Verde 2012". But what's going on in Vitoria, Green Capital in 2012? That, for not having a firm corporation with clear objectives, there is an impressive slowdown in policies that could be a benchmark in circular economy. A reference, because it has all the limbs It has the most conscious society of all Europe, fantastic technicians, and means. And nothing's done, listen. And you apply to your group also a little bit of this, a little bit of this, that we are also responsible and we have the capital to do it and we don't do it. And that sells, sells city. There are many tourists who move especially in those places where such policies are carried out, and Vitoria has an impressive capital and we have it paralyzed, blocked. So, Mr Becerra, let's talk positive, because, look, the circular economy is not a fashion, it's not an alternative, it's not a pose. It's something else. It is a necessary way to ensure a sustainable society. And in this way the efforts of the administrations, the industries and the citizens are necessary. Therefore, we have tabled an amendment to his initiative, an amendment that is based on the meeting that the FEMP (the federation of municipalities of Spain) had in March, where they made a decalogue on this subject, because they made a monograph, where they came councillors from Paris, from cities of Italy... Paris was probably the city where the circular economy first began, in Paris environments, in rather concrete circles, where they had human capital sensitised and able to make these initiatives, and developed. And he perfectly explained the councilwoman of Paris how to do it. Well, that's where we approved a decalogue that we find very interesting and that we have incorporated into the amendment that we have signed with the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group, where we stress the importance that local entities have in the implementation of the circular economy. Because, as I said before, here we legislate, but who really applies it... And the success of that application lies in how the local entity develops that policy. Europe, Brussels, the member states, the autonomous community, will be able to focus on you, they will be able to coordinate you, because coordination is also good, and not that some communities evolve in one way or another. Carry an order, so that everything is much more homogeneous in practice and in the way of applying the circular economy. It seems to me an exciting topic, very interesting, but not to confront, but to grow, to do things.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Octave.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u36	And it's a very interesting potential. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u37	The representative of the EH team, Mrs Lopez de Lariyabe, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u38	Yes, thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. Good morning, everyone. We discussed with the food-bags and the wrecks a little while ago, and today we'll discuss the circular economy: whether or not we can come together to close the circle, not to delay it. Exactly a month ago, more or less, we were discussing in this House what to do with food waste, with food waste; a debate that, perhaps having given more of itself, was left in a mere declaration of intent, with little prospect of the Government considering taking real steps to avoid generating so much waste. Although, something else has really materialized for how to distribute what we throw away and how to distribute what we have left. Today we are talking about circular economy, not linear economy, and curiously the waste of food is an important break in this circle that, hearing the interventions right now, it is very difficult for us to close down. The move from a linear economy to a circular economy is urgent, but it is so urgent that we should be taking the possible steps to meet the deadlines. Not only to close the circle, but to meet the deadlines that are being thrown at us. The European Union sets out deadlines which seem distant, but which must be the objective of the different administrations. The proposal recently adopted by the European Parliament is that 70% of waste should be recycled by 2030. Of course, in our case we are far from achieving that goal, but we are under an obligation to move from words to deeds. Today we are talking about a circular economy, a circular economy that forces us at least to think if all the steps we are taking go in the right direction. A circle that begins in production and ends in reuse, and that should be a reference to guide and direct all policies, seeking the efficiency of resources, but of all resources. And looking for this efficiency is where structural and real policies should be put in place, as long as they ensure that minimum objectives are met. But we cannot and must not talk about a circular economy without looking at the whole chain, without talking about a form of production and sustainable consumption; about a use of efficient products in resources, durable, easy to share, usable, recoverable, repairable and recyclable. We cannot talk about circular economy if we do not talk about production integrated with the environment, with health and with human relations. A production that must be sustainable and coherent, linked to demand and not to the interests of certain markets. With the liberalisation of quotas and production quotas, we are getting the opposite. We are getting surpluses that should then be managed. A regulation of these markets would be a first step to avoid surpluses that do not serve to cover demand, but it does serve to speculate with them, and of course to lower prices at source. Nor can we reach the circular economy if we do not take effective, real and courageous steps in all the links in that chain. Not just in production, of course. We cannot reach a real circular economy, as the directive mark sets, unless we give perfect, real, and bold steps in every chain eye. Prevent, reuse, recycle and compost, recover for other purposes such as recovery, and finally eliminate. This is the order, and we cannot deviate according to the interests, nor skip any of the steps. We must raise the awareness of society – right, I have just heard it here – but we must raise the awareness of society in the real situation we have, and implement policies led by the government (in this case by the Basque Government), of course in line and in cooperation with the local governments and other authorities. After seeing the amendments to the main motion, and after the surprise of the amount of good intentions they contain, I want to understand that all the people we are in this House share the objectives, because they are common. I'm not so sure we're talking about the same tools to put in place to get it. Objectives, on the other hand, which become real obligations to what they are marking us from Europe, and, as it cannot be otherwise, we must do everything possible to fulfil it. What really differs from the main motion of the Podemos Group from the rest of the amendments is the implementation of the measures to be taken in order to achieve the objectives. What really changes in the main motion is point 5 of the fucked motion, where we find an important step as necessary. There is a principle that says that the polluter pays, and now this is not done, so taking effective measures must also yield effective results. By recording the discharge and energy recovery we will urge to avoid pollution. We can't help it. We must fiscally encourage things to be done well, it is clear, so we must reward those who make the effort to achieve the objectives set, so we would agree to subsidise those administrations that succeed in overcoming and achieving the objectives set. The European Union, as I have already said, marks a very concrete waste hierarchy, with feasible objectives and which we are certainly not meeting here. We may all agree on that. We have no choice but to implement measures to achieve this, and measures in a positive and coordinated manner. From Europe they are already realizing that the second life of food and products is necessary. The products are running out, and it is more necessary than ever to put in place binding measures that must be a reference to implement policies from here. If we agree that a change is necessary – that is what I can see in the amendments – we will also agree that managing production, consumption and management is a top priority. We know that all the steps are not being implemented in the same way, and we also know that the rules that come from Europe are not being complied with, and the government is responsible for this inaction. Of course, it is in the hands of the Basque Government to assume leadership once and for all; a serious leadership, a useful leadership, and a leadership that serves to achieve the objectives. Because the objectives, the diagnoses, the measures, the directives, the plans are of course absolutely clear. So why is it so hard to take real steps? That's the question. But I have more questions. Who has the responsibility to enforce all steps? Is it society that has to assume all the weight? Is every effort being made to ensure that waste management is once and for all directed? Are the measures taken to avoid reaching the end of the chain? If the goal is shared, why don't we do the situation reading, a reading exactly the same? If so, we should all be debating a shared and fucked motion, but no, we dilute ourselves in "pulsing", in "fomenting", in "promoting"... We diluted in good intentions. But we must take a step further and each one assume its responsibility. As I said, the Basque Government must take the leadership that has been lacking so far and consolidate the role of social economy enterprises in the re-use and re-use preparedness sector. The Executive must take the necessary measures to promote the role of these companies dedicated to the social economy, betting on public procurement, and include the circular economy package, as it cannot otherwise be, to ensure the capacity of stakeholders to continue working on these terms. As for the role of the different administrations, we must recognise that not all of them carry the administration. What else would we like, that they were all at the same speed and fast! But no, they're not all taking steps the same way. In the different herrials the data are clear and very concrete. And, yes, the recycling rates are different, not only among the herriads, but within the herriad itself the differences are enormous. Here the parliaments already have a responsibility and are taking step by step steps. That's where we'd ask for the steps to be in open participatory processes, so we wouldn't meet up with anyone to back it up. In EH Bildu, of course, we are betting on zero waste – I believe it is no longer necessary or necessary – as a better formula to meet the European objectives for the coming years and as a better way to achieve this circular economy as well. In order to achieve this, we are going to call for compliance with the hierarchy of waste that marks us in Europe in a binding way, which, from our point of view, is not to do business with waste, but to not produce it. It is to avoid them as far as possible, from the beginning to the end of the chain. In addition, we are committed to the management of waste in a sustainable way. From our point of view, we cannot wear green energy recovery; we must close the circle, yes, but not dress it in energy recovery or paint it in green. If we have to talk about incinerating waste, we call it that: we are talking about burning waste. If we are proposing an incinerator that needs to burn waste in order to be profitable, we are entering into a great contradiction: we will have to produce waste in order for its incineration to be profitable, for that plant to yield benefits. Otherwise, we'll have to import garbage to pay for it. Green plans will be of no use, because more recycling, less waste. The truth is, it's hard for me to understand. It is a great contradiction, and it is also a great injustice: right in the herd where more effort has been made by citizens in terms of recycling, waste management, awareness, is where they will have to pay for burning their waste, regardless of whether they do it right or do it wrong. In view of the imminent start of the works (I believe next week), and without entering into the management of the same plant or the cost, this work is actually born under a shadow of suspicion, and I believe a rather long shadow. Of course, names such as Urbaser, operation Lezo, Ascasibar, own names with large fiascos behind their backs, do not help to believe in this project; they do not give any guarantee or reliability. Let's trust that we don't find ourselves in front of a scam at the expense of the waste. And not only at the expense of waste, but at the expense of people's health. It would not be the first or last time that we see how different waste, of all kinds, creates business, creates interests, but also creates doubts. This project is born countercurrent – besides you, and I believe that all of us in this House, we know that – but economic interests are above people's interests. I would ask the government to be prudent. It's not worth regretting later. To conclude, we will support the Podemos team's initiative, and from here we will make a summons to all of us to work, leaving political and economic interests to attain a tolerable purpose. Our support, as cannot be otherwise, for the motion put forward by the Elkarrekin Podemos group, and an appeal to work together. If we want a change to promote the circular economy, the battery of measures is clear. It only takes courage and not decision-making with electoral calculations, but long-term decisions to comply with European rules that do not last four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u39	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u40	Thank you, President, and good morning to you all. I do not know why we do not already run into this Parliament of euphemisms. If you, Mr Becerra, and you, gentlemen of Bildu, wanted to talk about the incinerator, let's talk about the incinerator. But don't come here pretending to talk about good intentions, about what they say they're so worried about, about the circular economy, when the two parties really talked about what they wanted to talk about. If you want to talk about it, bring the debate. And Mr Becerra began his speech by saying that it was a result of an inquiry that he made to Mr Arriola in a full check, and he dared to say that Mr Arriola had not answered him. I had answered him! Another thing is that you don't answer what you want and that you don't like the answer, that's another thing, but you did an inquiry pretending to talk about something you didn't dare say, and that's what Mr. Arriola put to you in his answer. I would therefore like us to stop deceiving, to try to obviate these great words of the environment, green taxation, ecodesign..., all this that you love to talk about, which appears in the electoral programs, that some also within a party say they belong to that more environmentalist branch, and dare to bring the debates of those who really want to talk about. And I tell both parties, because they have both started their intervention by talking to us about how important the circular economy is, to end up talking and highlighting what was done in Gipuzkoa and that it seems that the Gipuzcoans did not share, seeing the election results. And Mr Becerra also said that some of us want quick and decisive solutions. Solutions, Mr. Becerra. Solutions necessary for the conjuncture created by the irresponsibility of some. Economic solutions for the irresponsibility of cheques made, with photos, to specific companies, of 13 million euros, which were given to pay compensation for irresponsible attitudes of governments against the democratically agreed in institutions in previous legislatures. And Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe said that we share objectives in the speech, and we should share obligations, of course. And, moreover, I think we should have agreed on this initiative. I think there are many more things that unite us than those that separate us, if we talk about circular economy. Besides, I don't think we wanted to make a deal. And I do not say this to you, that I was not the proposer of the initiative, but, as you very enthusiastically support Mr de Podemos, I will tell you that no agreement has been reached. Because I understand that when someone presents an initiative and receives alternative amendments... For, man, hairs in the catera, when the time comes to try to negotiate, we must all leave; what cannot be is that it seems that everything is opposite, when it is not true. Because there is nothing more to see than the amendments of some and the proposal of the original group. And I'll tell you why. But, before that, I am surprised that in this case the circular economy has not been talked about by the proposer either of energy recovery or of the promotion of selective collection. And why don't you do it, Mr. Becerra? Because they're against it, but they don't say it openly. Say what your model is! Instead of criticizing one, say what the alternative model is! Because to change a model you have to have a model to put on that, and you don't have that. And, to make it clear – because we are going to make it clear – the Socialists are in favour of energy recovery, such as transforming waste into energy-generating resources, without forgetting that in the waste hierarchy the last way is the landfill. But you will have to respond to what you want to do with the waste. Then tell them what they want to do. They do not want what was done before, they do not want what is proposed now (because, in the meantime, 13 million euros). What do you want to do? You know the amount of waste that Euskadi has that is generated and that does not stop being generated; then, you will have to give solutions to the citizens. Having said that, and without turning around, the initiative says many things. She talks about Europe, she also spoke about Bildu. It should be said that the European Parliament adopted a suggestion on a number of potential economic instruments, including taxes on dumping and incineration, to achieve a circular economy. These are suggestions that must be adapted to what has been done in each territory, but, gentlemen, we do not invent anything! It's all made up! You copy the management model of the most advanced countries, which have the most recycling and environmental awareness, and that is why you, Mr Becerra, know more than many of those in this House. Through energy recovery we obtain energy contained in waste that cannot be recycled and not to follow that path would end up in a landfill, at least desirable, due to its negative impact on both the environment and health. The countries that value energy most are the ones that recycle the most and those that shed the least. In Euskadi we have the Waste Prevention and Management Plan 2020. You know that, you talk about that in your amendment, on your initiative; we talk about that is our amendment. And you didn't want to compromise. The Government is recognized, among other things, the powers of autonomous planning and regulatory authority, while the collection and management of urban solid waste belongs to the historical territories. And don't forget: here the government is being asked for things that belong to the parliaments, which are doing their work. The Basque Government endorses the waste hierarchy, which you are also talking about on your own initiative and on which you did not want to agree. And there are also many things included in the motion, and there are others that cease to be included. "The competent administrations in the development of waste prevention and management policies and legislation shall apply, in order to achieve the best overall environmental result, the waste hierarchy in the following order of priority: prevention, preparedness for reuse, recycling, recovery, and disposal" (deposit at landfill). I suppose you will know where this text comes from, that the Basque Government accepts it in an integral way and that it is committed to fulfilling it. The strategic objectives of waste reduction, both as a whole and in its typology, are set by that plan on which you did not want to agree with the parties that support the Government. In this connection, on 14 March the European Parliament adopted the reports of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety on the legislative package to boost the circular economy. The four reports, approved by the plenary and which will also be defended before the European Council, in order to bring the objectives into line with the rules. The starting point in addressing the environmental tax approach is that the term green taxation is not only reduced to the determination of taxes. It's a lot more than the determination of charges! Green taxation: We can love to talk, and you didn't want to make a deal either. From this approach, the Basque Government has taken up the technical work to be carried out by the Basque Government's Department of Finance, as well as the out-of-pocket farms, in order to establish a coherent Basque green taxation policy, which promotes good environmental practices in a more balanced manner with the levies. Because the polluter pays, of course he pays, of course he pays, and he must do so. We also believe that it is worth noting that there are different lines to promote the implementation and awareness of selective collection in different municipalities. We are told that Gipuzkoa is the province that did the most. That he did more to impose; that he did little to listen, and that he did less for the circular economy when governing some. So, I think we should all see what we're doing here. In addition, the Basque Government has the Green Procurement and Procurement Programme of the Basque Country 2020. And you, Mr de Bildu and Mr de Podemos, do you want to tell me if you do not agree to coordinate us according to the competences that each administration has, to talk about green taxation and to be able to agree on the subject of contracting, the European hierarchy, the guidelines...? I just don't understand why we haven't been able to reach an agreement! Well, I do, but I'd like us to be brave and come down to the rostrum and talk about what we want to talk about. You have brought this to us from the approach of goodism that you love in the great headline that sometimes gathers the media, when you have actually wanted to come and talk about something else. Because on the whole we agree. Because as far as the circular economy is concerned, we agree. Because you know that everything goes by talking about green taxation, about the issue of contracting, of course to comply with and enforce European directives, and of course to take into account the competences of the different institutions. But when one wants to make a deal and another doesn't, it's very complicated! And indeed, lords of Bildu and lords of Podemos, you make a tandem in almost everything, and when you have the agreement made is when you call the rest. But do you know the difference? That we are the government and you are the opposition, and that when you want to reach an agreement you have to be able to give in. And I would like you to explain to me where you disagree, because what you have said and what Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe has said is the same as I have said. Same thing, Mr. Becerra. And if not, look at the two amendments. No, you haven't even made the effort to try to write it differently, because you want to talk about incinerator yes or incinerator no. In that you summarize the subject of recycling, waste, the future of energy policy... That's what they want to talk about. Therefore, as I have once told another Member specifically, if you want to talk about something bring it to the rostrum. Be brave, and we will stand. But don't try to cheat, because this Parliament in this legislature has been loaded with euphemisms that I think we should run away from.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u41	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians, Mrs. Beras Long, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u42	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. We've got the argument that you've been introduced after the entire meeting on March 17th. And, well, I'm arguing about that because that's why we come here. But I also like to come and look for deals, and, as Mrs. Rojo said, we had a chance today to find this arrangement, because, having read your motion, I'm going to tell you that I've got a lot of things to do, and I think he adds very little to that Euscala plan of 2020, which we now have. Zuk esaten duzunean, who urges the Basque Government to "coordinate the updating of policies developed by the Basque administrations in the field of waste". The plan states that there is a coordinating body for urban waste, involving the three outlaws and the Government itself, and that it is the main coordinating body in the area of urban waste management. The plan, as you ask, clearly prioritizes prevention, because at all stages of the production and consumption cycle – you will agree with me – what we must do is to ensure that fewer and fewer waste is generated, and it is set as a goal that this generation is reduced by 10%. There is also talk of collecting and separating, selecting a minimum of 75%, and also recycling, up to 60%. Then tell me we don't agree. All this is reflected in a plan approved by the Basque Government, when whoever now shares with me bench was a counselor in the corresponding area. But if we are talking about circular economy, Mr Becerra, we have to talk about the waste hierarchy, and in that waste hierarchy there may be concepts that you do not share, and I agree with Mrs Red, and also with Mrs López de Ocariz, where perhaps in this initiative they are actually hiding another debate. Another debate, which some of us are talking about energy recovery and others are talking about burning, which is the verb you have already used on several occasions. Because in the waste hierarchy established by the European Union and which at the same time follows the Basque plan we are talking about energy recovery: first, to prevent, obviously to separate, to recycle, and also to exploit energy. And finally the spill, which is the only one left out of the cycle. Because the cycle has to be closed. Because, you will tell me, that I know, for now, not all the waste we generate can be recycled or reused. What do we do with the rest? Shall we see him, keep opening dumps? But not for scum, as you say, as a result of incineration, but for the very waste we cannot reuse. I think there might be the difference that leads us not to reach an agreement today. For there is also between your request, between several euscal administrations, that the disposal management plans may perform some strategic purposes, is it not? And I believe that this is the first point of our amendment, because the plan for euscal plans, the prevention of ruins, and the Kudeades, says that this year, in 2017, the first evaluation of the remains made in the three countries is to be made, to see whether Europe and we have prepared for our purpose, whether we have fulfilled or not. If we have not fulfilled them, let us set the corrections, and in the day of Europe we are making new decisions, saying that new directives, new rules, must be different ends, let us adapt our plans to them, but for that purpose we must make a first evaluation, and that, too, we were involved in our corrections, and I think, you ought to agree with them. But, well, we weren't going to agree on almost everything either, and on the subject of the autonomous rate, so I also don't share with you that we should also tax valuation and dumping. Because, as we have said before, within the waste hierarchy energy recovery does close the cycle, because it causes all those materials that we can neither recycle nor reuse if they return to the economic cycle; however, the spill leaves them out, because we do nothing but bury and discard forever some materials that we cannot reuse. So, I think that valuing and pouring under no circumstances should be taxed equally. I do agree that we must tax the polluter, but we must also encourage. I think that on this issue of the circular economy, or when we talk about the environment, or when we talk about the responsibility for what we do with waste, I think it is very important to raise awareness and educate citizens, and obviously not everything has to be penalised for something that we understand is wrong, but also, if we put in the right means for people to use them and to recycle them, and to work together to achieve the goals, we could also somehow improve them. Moreover, in Europe, of course, I believe that the imposition of perhaps a canon on the waste is quite shared, but I cannot share with you that it will be penalised as well as something that is outside the waste hierarchy and the circular economy itself that is energy recovery. And finally, I agree, even here, when we talk about the green prosecutor. I think that we ought to agree with the farms in the country, and encourage them, together with the fines we impose on us for not taking care of the environment, and also that we ought to combine their daily activity, their daily activity, both in enterprises, and the active activities of the environments of private men, in their proper taxations and bonds, always in a balanced system. And, moreover, in the purchases of the administration and the introduction of the environmental variable in public contract, I am quite satisfied with what I have said at first: I don't understand why we didn't make an agreement today. I think there was a possibility, that we were positive when we talked about the circular economy, and not that we came to this tribe to talk about something, but that we wanted to show another debate from below. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. After the answers, Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u44	Well, I'll start by responding to Mrs. López de Ocariz. He's said a number of things that I completely agree with. It is clear that everything involved in the circular economy cannot be taken up in a motion; that is obvious. He is also right that in my initial motion he gave little importance to prevention, and that is why I have to thank the amendment by EH Bildu, which he has made in that regard. You say that there is a need for a change of attitude in consumers. It is true, but it also has to be in the institutions, and I have already said clearly that we cannot continue to regard waste as something that must be destroyed at all costs because it bothers us. And you say something else in which you are right: the circular economy is not counter. We can't talk about the circular economy as opposed to something. But neither can we think that the circular economy is everything. And the circular economy does not include incineration. Unlike the waste hierarchy, the circular economy does not include incineration. You have tabled an amendment to the whole quite interesting. It differed from the line ours was on, but it was interesting. And he mentioned the Seville agreement. In the Seville agreement, among the local strategies to be developed in favor of the circular economy, energy recovery does not appear. Prevention appears, reuse appears, recycling appears, zero discharge..., and energy recovery does not appear. That is why I found it partly disappointing (although I understand it, given the political context in which it does it) that it eventually reached a compromise with the Government, because its amendment was much more interesting than that presented by the government parties. Obviously, I can't agree with you when you say "Incineration only burns the remaining fraction." Not here in Euskadi. In Germany as well, but not here. That's the problem. That's the problem. Here, if an incinerator is designed in Gipuzkoa to treat all the garbage in the territory, it is obviously not being designed for a remaining fraction of 10 or 20%. So, the problem... I see another problem in the transaction that you have reached, and it is that, if I look at what things you have taken away from yourself, Mrs López de Ocariz, you have not only taken away the question of local strategies, where energy recovery did not appear: you have taken away your point 5, where you said "Underscoring the positive consequences that a change of model towards the circular economy would entail in terms of greenhouse gas emissions". Indeed, you are right, the circular economy helps us to prevent climate change. But not through incineration. The Zabalgarbi incinerator is Euskadi's second most important greenhouse gas emission focus, and the Zubieta incinerator will be the fifth. That means that we are reducing or cutting greenhouse gas emissions to the steelworks and the productive industry, and yet we are increasing our emissions by burning waste that could have another destination. Obviously, I have not been able to agree to this motion with the government group because you have tabled an amendment to a motion on circular economy without mentioning the words circular economy once, Mrs Red. Not once. This is about the shape. On the merits, there are two issues that are fundamental. The first is to try to confuse the waste hierarchy with the circular economy, because I have already said that the circular economy does not include energy recovery. I am not against the waste hierarchy; what I am saying is that the European Union is going to change this waste hierarchy and these waste directives, and they are going to increasingly restrict energy recovery. And yet we, enthusiasts, continue to bet on it. So, that's a matter of substance that was going to differentiate us, obviously. Well, you tell us, "What's your model? What's your model?". Reduce, recycle and composter. And if there's a remaining fraction there, we could make a deal, Mrs. Berasaluze. But, of course, if you are designing in the incinerator country to burn everything, it is not possible to reach an agreement. Look, if Euskadi had a remaining fraction of 10% and wanted to incinerate it, with one incinerator would be worth it, but it's already going for two, and they'll soon put another for Álava, and then it's impossible to reach an agreement on that. There are two things he says are misconceptional. Energy recovery... incineration doesn't close the cycle. I have already made it clear: the landfills do not disappear, they will continue to have landfills, they continue to have landfills, because the slags have to be put somewhere, and we generate so many thousands of tons of waste, which are going to generate many thousands of tons of slags that are going to need dumping. And I end up saying that of course it's important to raise awareness, but will you tell me what you've been doing in the last few years in Gipuzkoa, when there were selective collection initiatives and you were saying, "Let's boycott them by throwing everything together in the same bag"? That's not raising public awareness! And it is very important that you be aware that this initiative has not been made against anyone, but you need to know that there are things that are not circular economy, that are not recycling and that are not admissible for a society of the twenty-first century. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u45	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. The representative of the American Basque Team, Mrs López de Ocarariz, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u46	Mr Becerra, I am not an expert in the incinerator of Gipuzkoa, nor in the incinerator of Bizkaia, but, to tell you, I think Gipuzkoa's is designed exclusively for the remaining fraction, which is the 230 tons, and I think that is so. I mean, I don't know, but that's my perception of the situation. And I want to tell you that we are at a very special time, when the European Union is reviewing environmental policies and how they are being implemented. We have a marked percentage where we get to with the circular economy, but we have to define the road map, we have to define the objectives, we have to define the strategies, the actions, fix the evaluations... There's a lot of work to do. So, from my point of view, you are ahead of what is going to be marked. I therefore believe that we will do so now, or that we will do so within six months, in certain actions it will benefit us, because we will do so in a coordinated way with what the European directive and the Member States have to do, and the Autonomous Community will have to do so. So, it seems to me that some things are hasty to focus on now, because we don't know if they're really going to go like this. In circular economy we have a lot of theory, a lot, here we all know a lot, but practice is very little. Very little. We are therefore going to stop talking so much and we are going to try to ensure that measures are implemented and, as I said, in a coordinated way. Coordinated with citizens, industries and administrations, I have told you before. That's fundamental. I was talking about the amendment that we have tabled, which I think is a very interesting work that the FEMP, the federation of municipalities, did, because it is the agents who are going to implement these policies, and it is very important that they understand, understand and believe that it is necessary, and they are also going to explain where they find the difficulties. And I in the compromise amendment did not want to repeat the whole statement. I have said that the Government implements and takes into account the full declaration. I have, of course, pointed out a few points in particular, but I believe that this is reflected in the compromise amendment. So, I didn't leave anything in the way. I share the full statement, and it is also reflected in the amendment. I have, in particular, put some basic points, such as the important role that local governments have, as I said, in promoting and developing a circular economy, because it is the closest and most effective administration that can prevent environmental impacts, and collaboration with neighbours. But it is also very important for us to promote cooperation between administrations – I said it before and I say it now – and to develop and share good practices between cities, within the framework of developing local strategies for a circular economy. And something very important: involving the scientific community. That is, we need innovation, how to transform all the waste we generate and how to apply it. And the more innovation we incorporate, the better we will use those resources. I therefore believe that we share all of Seville's statement, and those are the points that we felt we wanted to highlight in the paper. But the amendment, as you will understand, contains all the points. As you said, Mr Becerra, we have a lot of legislation that remains to be defined in this area. The European Union is also working on a legislative waste management package. We have the circular economy action plan, adopted in 2015, but it has to be developed. A manual of good practice in the circular economy is also being developed. With this, in some ways, there is a lot of legislation that will come, a lot of European directive, and then it will be the Member States and the autonomous communities that will mark the implementation. But it is good that we work, as I told you before, to raise awareness of society. And to raise awareness in positive. And then we'll talk about taxes or how to encourage those who really recycle and those who don't. I'll have to make a difference, too, or we'll have to think about it! Because the citizen does question us many times: "I recycle, and why do I pay the same garbage tax as the next one, which does not recycle?". That is a very important issue, and there we can also raise awareness and the citizen is taking on his or her responsibility. That in small municipalities looks very easy. People ask you, they tell you, and they put it in your face: "Why do I pay the same garbage rate as my neighbor, who sees what's in the container?". There are very interesting issues to discuss, but, as I said, please, in positive.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u47	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. The representative of the EH team, Mrs Lopez de Lariyabe, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u48	Thank you again, Mrs. Tejeria. Well, for starters, an answer to Mrs López de Ocariz: we agree that the circular economy has to pass and it has to be practical. I think you and I know, because we have feet very close to the earth and we know what it costs and what it is. Then we'd agree on that. In that local administrations have to do things, absolutely agree as well. I do not agree so much that Green Capital is an example to follow: Green Capital is Green Capital for its parks, not so much for its waste and how to manage them. To Mrs Red I want to say that it is true that I have not been in the negotiation of the motions, it was not my role, but I really did not want it either. Because you know that the rules are not being complied with; that the theory is on the table, but you, as far as you have the frying pan by the handle, are not using it. So there would be measures, but they're not believing them, I think, really. That's why I didn't want to enter into a deal either. If we are really believing the circular economy, we are going to put measures on the table that are true. That's as simple as that! I see it very simple! But why isn't it that simple? Because change means things, and there the Basque Nationalist Party I think it knows, and as a government it has its responsibility as a government. Of course it costs, change always costs. It's not easy, it's hard, it's a lot of effort. And I'm going to give you an example that I have in my own home. We're going through my town hall...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u49	Silence, please...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u50	Thank you. In our town hall there is a boost to the circular economy, and in my house, in my own house, in my own kitchen we have inspections, inspections to improve us for doing things right. I mean, things are already being done, little by little, from the bottom up. Well, it's as simple as starting it up and being brave. And not being electoralists, it's true. The Basque Nationalist group also spoke in the previous motion about employment. The incinerator does not create employment; the incinerator burns waste. If it creates employment, the circular economy. They are telling us from the European Union: there would be a job creation of 400,000. But, of course, we want quality jobs, we want sustainable jobs, jobs that really are social. We don't want jobs the way we're living now. I can't let it go without talking about Zabalgarbi. It is impossible to talk about waste recovery when we talk about incineration, because it has been shown that Zabalgarbi does not energetically value waste. I'll explain it quickly. Zabalgarbi, to burn garbage, what does he do? It has to burn gas, yes or yes. Gas, more garbage, which is equal to electricity. Okay. And the efficiency of the plant above is 40%. However, combined natural gas cycle plants have an efficiency of 55 %. This means that with the gas burned in Boroa, for example, the same electricity comes out as with the sum of gas and garbage from Zabalgarbi. So the garbage in Zabalgarbi is not valued, but it is burned, so simple. That's why Zabalgarbi needs to make a thousand and one traps to live on the basis of public subsidies. I'm finishing up. I'll end up saying that the incinerator gives us fear. We're scared of why? Because it has around it – what I said before – long shadows: operations Lezo, Gürtel, Pokémon..., everything is surrounding it. It is in a state and comes the company – one of them, the most important – of a state of systematic corruption, and that may also sluggish. Be careful. No more than that, I'm just saying. I'm gonna end up positive, like I said. The circular economy has to be believed, and I'm going to take it to my land and I'm going to talk about livestock. Why? Because the future of generations begins on earth and begins in the primary system and in the primary sector. The end of this economy is circular, it's not linear, I think we're forgetting, and I think we're talking all the time about interests and getting business out of waste. Let's create the circular economy. It's so simple... - No, no, no, We need to leave a future to our generations; not a future that burns waste, but a future that we believe in, that commits us. And it's true that it costs us work, but I think with support, and at least the same direction that we could be taking, I understand that we would have a chance to do things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u51	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u52	Yes, thank you again, President. To be in order, Mr Becerra, if you liked Mrs López de Ocariz's amendment so much, it is included in its entirety. Even if everything is not written down, if you read it you will understand that it is included in its entirety. To put what was approved in Seville is to put everything, because what Mrs López de Ocariz had done was a breakdown highlighting what she considered to be more important than what was approved in Seville, but it is all included. So don't look for ghosts where there are no ghosts. She joined what Mrs Berasaluze and I had proposed, to complete, because we understood that what the People's Party was doing was interesting to us. On the other hand, I would like to raise a question with you, and that is whether the rules we have in Parliament are to comply with them. Yes, he tells me, no doubt. European directives, we assume in the forums that we have an obligation to comply with them, and the outside rules as well. It's not that when we like where they come from, and when we don't like it, we don't. The outside rules are also to comply with them, and not to pretend, through the trials, the courts and the lawsuits, to win something against the rules that we have in parliaments. And that's what some of you are pretending in Gipuzkoa. And it talks in a way, I think, very irresponsible of the issue of landfills. Of course you have to get something to the dumps! How are the dumps? They're full? Is there space, or is there no space? Is there a need for infrastructure? Is there a need for a solution to the irresponsibility generated by some, or not? That's what we're in, running from filling out roles that all hold up, to give real answers and solutions to specific problems. And this talk, in such an elegant way, of the circular economy... Well, I'd tell you that the circular economy you're talking about is the circular economy of the car that comes out of the municipality with the trunk full of garbage, so, making a circle, get to another and leave it there. Or, in an oval way, go to Navarre to leave it, because in Navarre it is cheaper than in Cantabria. That is the circular economy that some set in motion and defend. Not the circular economy this precious and wonderful that fills texts and directives in Europe. Then let's not cheat! Let us say which policies we defend and which policies we defend. So, when you were talking about the subject of the amendment, you were saying, point 1, coordinating: coordination with competent administrations appears in the proposal; promoting prevention: we are talking about the prevention plan; taking necessary measures concerning the waste prevention and management plan: included in the proposal; talking about taxes, green taxation, with which I understand you will agree: it is the proposal; working with outside finance and tax incentives: it is the proposal; implementing circular economy criteria with the clauses of the processes... It is that there are many things in which you know perfectly well that you agree with what we propose. But you have come to this Parliament with a clear strategy, which is to oppose the opposition. It's just that politics isn't for that! We're here for something else, Mr. Becerra! And Mrs. Lopez de Arroyabe said, "I haven't been in the negotiation, I didn't want to." Well, when you don't want to negotiate, I don't know what you're doing in a parliamentary chamber with such a division that the citizens have put us on. If you do not want to be, you also do not have to participate in the debate, because we are here to agree. Because they didn't want to be thrown out of Gipuzkoa's outlaw government. For not wanting to be. For not wanting to be in the agreements, for doing consultations in the municipalities that then gave whatever they said. Just listen to what you're interested in. And they say, "We're afraid of the incinerator," which you're trying to talk about, which seems like Mr. Becerra says no, that he hasn't come to. Fear? Fear is what you are trying to give with the speech of health conditions, brought this same legislature to the Gipuzkoa General Councils. Fear is what happens when pamphlets and triptychs are created manipulating the information that reaches the citizens' mailboxes. That's fear. And another thing that they do, besides fear, that seems irresponsible to me, alarming, and that I don't know how they're not punished anymore... But I set the example of punishment, for example, in the municipality of Pasaia, which has moved from EH Bildu to the Socialist Party, and we have little to see, because people are being tried to manipulate. And people are much more mature and more responsible than you think. Much more! And what you wanted to do is impose it on Europe, on the green... No, look! No way! Look at what energy recovery policies European countries are doing, look at what is the remaining fraction of Germany, for example, and see if that's what Gipuzkoa was doing, which has nothing to do with it. And then, when you become adept at defending the citizens and the public arks, and at saving and creating jobs, I would like someone from EH Bildu on this subject to answer me, those 13 million euros, with photo (with photo!)), with FCC and those big companies, those lobbies you love to talk about, where they come from. Of the arks of the Gipuzcoans, which are as Basque as the Alaves and as the Vizcains. And those of PSOE are as Basque as those of EH Bildu, those of PP, those of PNV and all. And you only defend your own, Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe, and you only defend what you believe. And when they don't win something democratically they take it to the courts, without realizing that the public coffers are for something else, they're not for that. Some of us are doing politics and others are for entertainment politics. Today in the absence of T-shirts, but there could have been as well.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u53	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians, Mrs. Beragon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u54	Thank you. Mr. Becerra, I must confess to you that you may know more about the circular economy than I do, but I have already reached a confusion point when you tell me that the hierarchy of debris is one thing, the circular economy is another thing... I don't know, I think it's a bit of an interesting argument that's always in your way, in order to keep you out of it for a while. But on the other hand, I've seen it. I'm glad you don't entirely reject your rating. You say it may not happen. I think I will, and I would tell you also, that this climate, prepared for the use of the Gipuese Survey, which you have so often alluded to, will perform the coefficient which Europe requires in the production of energy. Today, it's from 0.665%, and the change will come, and Europe will be placed at 0.585. I'll tell you that Gipulia plant will fill that new goal from the very beginning. Also, I have drawn another conclusion, that Madame de Lopez de Lariyabe has also said that in her first speech we must fill her with that hierarchy of wastes, and that, well, there is also the point of perfection. So I don't know if we've passed that "Apparently" discussion, and we're getting into the accounts of dimension. And I must also tell you, from the knowledge I have of Echan, that this plant, which we are going to make at least in the gym, is adapted in the gym, not to be recycled, nor to be re-used by those ruins. I have therefore, perhaps, drawn positive conclusions from this discussion. And what I said was: I think that my wife Rojo, too, has taken a point on the subject of our repentance and your mutation, and I am sorry that we had a chance to reach something more today. And with Ms. López de Octariz, well, thank you, even because we've come to agree with us in this half-varying process of amendment, which I believe is very important in this matter, by mixing up the local administration, because we mustn't forget that when we get the first-class jurisdictions and place them, we must recycle the right roads, and at least the Thracybitz at the beginning of treatment, each of our houses, each of which is responsible for our waste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote together with the middle-point correction that Podemos and EH Teams have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 29; the opponents are 45; white, 0; abstations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u56	So the middle-line correction has been rejected. Next, we'll vote for the Esquila Populars, Euscalia Socialeists, and the Middle Amendments signed by the Eucousists. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 45; the opponents are 29; white, 0; abstations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u57	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Third point in theme list: "The same proposal as the Parlamentary Parlamentarian Group, the plan of Osa-flamentary infrastructure and equipment. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the party that made this proposal is to present and take over. Mrs Garrido, the representative, has her word whenever she likes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Congressmen, chief officers. Today, Popular Party, the Euscal Popular Group, represents a specific proposition about the Hosa-mates infrastructure and equipment plan. We assume that this proposition is interesting and necessary, and I am obliged to mention that we have obtained an agreement with the government in the political proposition of the Government. We need a schedule. We believe that the criteria of planning in the sanitary area is proper, and so if we clearly observe these criteria of planning, the sanitary resources may be well distributed. Even so equality can be established among the inhabitants. The object of planning is to determine actions, to determine ends, to describe actions, and to determine what means they should be, with the funding to be directed. For this purpose, it is essential to make a diagnosis, to fix precise and real ends, to have priorities clearly, to meet the means as I have said. Today we are presenting an initiative for the Basque Government to draw up an infrastructure and equipment plan in Osakidetza. We consider this to be an interesting initiative, bearing in mind that we are at the beginning of the legislature, and also bearing in mind that there have been too many variations or improvisations in the past legislature, in our view, in relation to the planning of health investments. These were subject to budgetary availability, obviously, as they always are, but the budgetary situation at the beginning of last parliamentary term meant that investments in the Basque Autonomous Community, health investments, were lagging behind planned executions and deadlines. With this initiative we intend to remedy this situation, and that from the beginning of the legislature there is already a planning of the investments that will be implemented throughout the legislature, with a timetable, with a series of deadlines in which these infrastructures will be affected, and with the funding provided. Yes, it is true, I have to say, that we already have approved budgets in which the People's Party has cooperated very actively, and above all also by creating an increase in health investments, and therefore that planning that the Government is finally going to make will be carried out not only according to the government programme, but also according to the budgets already approved for this exercise, as I say, in which the People's Party has introduced amendments that increase some of the amounts already planned, or also some new investments in some health centres. We consider it appropriate to plan health investments to analyse and monitor resources, as well as to enhance equity in the population's access to health resources, especially given that there are potential territorial imbalances in health resources distributed throughout our territories. So when we talk about planning, we talk about defining goals, objectives, sorting out actions, adopting the strategies needed to achieve the best results and efficient management of resources. This requires a diagnosis, an evaluation of what has been done before, prioritizing objectives, estimating resources, and programming the activities to be carried out. As I said, prior to this planning of future investments we consider it necessary to make an assessment of the investments made, in this case the investments made by Osakidetza during the last legislature, and in this regard we introduce a first point that speaks of the Basque Government evaluating all the investments made in Osakidetza during the past legislature, within the framework of the strategic lines and plans of action of Osakidetza 2013-2016. I want to say that this point has been included in its entirety in point 1 of the transaction, and we are therefore satisfied. In relation to the lines to be followed throughout this legislature by the Councillor and the Department of Health, and by the Basque Government, the Councillor on 24 January, when he explained the lines to be followed by his department, told us that one of the fundamental lines was the sustainability and modernization of the health system, and that one of the key aspects precisely for this modernization of our health system is the renovation of equipment, technologies and facilities. Among the objectives set for the current legislature, in this appearance the councillor told us about the launch of the Hospital de Urduliz, the completion and implementation of the Hospital de Eibar, the construction of the new general services building of the Hospital Universitario de Álava, a new surgical and resuscitation block at the Hospital de Basurto, the completion and entry into service of the health research service of Biocruces, and the construction of six new health centres throughout the legislature, such as those of Amurrio, Campezo, Alde Zaharra, Aiete-Donostia and Zalla, as well as the renovations of equipment and technology. The Councillor told us in his appearance that he had simply advanced those which he considered to be the minimum investments that we are going to develop this legislature, because some are started, or because we are sure that we can simply implement them with the budget that we bring. But the councillor was also telling us that I hope that a sufficient budget will be approved so that we can make a much longer schedule than he had told us. Well, that was the objective of the People's Party when we amended the health budget: to go beyond the planned investments, to give a boost to the investments that were under way, and, of course, also to put on the table some of the investments that we considered necessary and that were not initially foreseen in the budget. I have to say, Mr President-in-Office – I am sorry that you are not following this debate – that your wish has come true this time, and that Mr-in-Office, and the Basque Government as a whole, has done more this time than the amendments on investment in health tabled by the People's Party in these budgets. We have always presented them, but in this case this government has clearly looked to the People's Party to improve the health of Basque citizens, taking into account, as I say, the proposals of the People's Party. Thus, we have increased the initial investment planned in the health center of Aiete, we have also increased by 1 million euros the investment initially planned in the University Hospital of Álava, we have increased the planned investment in the health center of Zalla, and we have planned new investments for two health centers (the health center of Irala and the health center of Basurto). In this regard, and with regard to planning, in the compromise amendment we have also agreed on a second point in line with what we were putting forward in our initiative, where the Basque Government is going to draw up a planning of the infrastructure and equipment of Osakidetza for the current parliamentary term in accordance, as I said at the beginning of my intervention, with the government programme, with the approved budgets, which I say have been substantially improved with the contributions of the People's Party, and also with the needs that exist in the three territories or with the needs that are emerging. I must also say that we are also at the beginning of the parliamentary term. First budgets have been adopted with the invaluable help of the People's Party, which has made it possible for them to go ahead with this abstention, and there may also be future negotiations in which new investments can also be agreed, investments that are already planned to be accelerated, investments that are being implemented, or even new needs that we can have. We are therefore satisfied with the agreement reached with the Government team. I appreciate the availability, because in the end they have had a constructive attitude, and I obviously believe that the initiative was a positive initiative. I hope the rest of the groups... , that EH Bildu also, in some way, can support this initiative, because in general it is also in line with what they proposed in their initial proposal. And I understand that the Group of the European People's Party, by not having an amendment tabled, will have no objection to subscribing to the terms of the agreed initiative. I look forward to the interventions to determine the position of the groups. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u59	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections, the representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Blanco, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u60	Thank you, ma'am. Good noon, everyone. This is the discussion which the Populian proposes to us today concerning the plan of sub-structions and equipment of Osarism: the evaluation of investments and the planning of those to be made in this legislation was made in the legislature. First, we would like to determine or explain, when we speak of investments, to be made of different views, beginning from the same concept. For EH Collect, investment combines words for work, and different scopes or areas for improvement. To invest in the power of men, in human resources, in form, or in the power of patients, is as important for us as investing in a building. I mean, during the opening of a new hospital, we can cut the tape very proudly, but inside that nice little box, we'll be satisfied with quality services, or the needs of people working in it, for instance, if they're too poor, with muscleless skeletons. That is why this parliamentary group also considers, for example, a good investment in budget increases in primary care, in order to achieve a total development of health promotion and prevention. Or work to offer a healthy diet in the dining rooms of the hospital centers, based on the prioritization of ecological products and modifying their management model, because that is also investing in health. Or in promoting telemedicine, for example. In addition, it will soon serve us to go to a primary care centre or a hospital with a recent smell of paint, to wait among the elegant blue seats, if we do not have the right to receive attention in the mother tongue of many, in Basque. Or if among the staff who will attend us there is one person who has had to sign sixty different employment contracts in the course of the year. Or if, after a knee surgery, I have to wait six hours at your new, newly painted, beautiful emergency door, for a medical transport to move me to my home. It seems to me that today we are going to discuss material resources, because most of the time we discuss investments we content ourselves with examining a small section, and forget all the other matters that have to do with real investment: Person, public, universal, free, and physical care is guaranteed. That is why we mention all these principles at the fourth point of our full correction. With this intention we added this point, and doubtless because it is more important than it is at first sight. So if we concentrate on bricks, we may say, according to what the chief physician has advanced to us for the whole legislation, that service will be completed at the Uduly Hospital, that the Ebar Hospital will end, that another building will be built at the University Hospital in Araba, and I will not continue because Mrs Garrido has mentioned it in her old intervention. That's the information we've got about investments in the Chief physician's words. Hence we may say that new investments which have hitherto been foreseen have been determined. And this decision is, doubtless, a political decision, authorised by all François, of course, but this decision or plan is, after all, political planning. In like manner, the members of the legislature have a right to doubt this plan, based on certain reasons. In the legislation that has passed, for instance, a series of commitments which we had experienced for years were not met with, in our opinion, only the delay of the rhythms of the investment. Sometimes, in the investment planning, there has been a remarkable change of direction, most of the time connected with government institutions, because we must remember that, five years ago, President Urkullu himself had defended him in front of the Santiago Hospital as a service for guineas, and that, after the budget with PSE, we stayed with a hospital of sick chronics, as the Socialists wanted, as Mr. Beng. And that's just an example. In so far as it is a political decision of the investments, the motives which are to be shared in this plan are removed; health-forms, national platforms, unions, etc. That is why we can conclude that the way in which this Government plans the different investments it has is absolutely political; totally legal, as we said, but equally legal, it seems to us that the public money allocated to infrastructure related to our health system (this year more than EUR 50 million) can be agreed, agreed or shared with the different political groups and other actors. And it is true that Councillor Darpón in his first appearance of this legislature in this House seemed to ask for contributions in the field of investment from the different political groups, because he said: "Investments, apart from my own intentions, will depend on all the groups in this House." Today we can say that they do not depend on all the groups in this House, but on the People's Party and the Socialist Party, because the contributions that the rest of us have made to the budgets have thrown them away. Therefore, since we do not share the way in which different investment forecasts are modified in terms of rhythms and priorities, we find it desirable and necessary to evaluate what has been done in the past legislature and plan in a participatory way how each euro of public money that is invested in bricks will be spent. In the original text described by PP, the intention of evaluation and planning of planning is plain, but for the EH Collector, the same proposition remains short, or remains. That's why we introduced an integer correction to complete that demand, to complete it, to complete it, to complete it, to complete it. The groups which support the government do not propose new proposals as we hoped; that is, they ask the Government to continue to invest them with the same criteria as they have hitherto done, and to continue the information of the investments made about the law. We must say that the representative of EAJ has extended his hand to make an agreement, but in so far as they think the manner in which he is planning is right, and if they do not admit of any change in this sense, you will consent to have our view, and the direction we must take to be quite contrary. They have, indeed, been willing to evacuate the investments which had been made during the legislation that had been passed. But the evaluations don't make any sense unless you consider the chances of how they come out. That's what you've been talking to us. In the second round, I'll talk about the middle-effect corrections because now time is over. And we said that assessments are necessary for that: to draw conclusions and analyze the improvement margins applicable in subsequent planning. And if you do that in a shared way, then, better than better, from our point of view. It is therefore clear that we are not going to give up the four points of our amendment to the whole, with its background and importance, in exchange for an appearance of the adviser in this House to count the goodness of the investments already made, without the desire to go further. That's why we're going to defend the full corrections, because we think every investment we've made in Osar for the last four years has to be evacuated. In like manner, we must agree to the plan of investments for the future, considering all the agents of health and the needs of health. In order to do all this, it will be indispensable to the desktop of human resources and material investments, always public, universal, free, and quality. These four premises, these four criteria or conditions, which it contains, will protect our full correction. Anyone who likes to improve the investment policies and to be more partial in the direction will protect our full correction. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Mrs. Rojo, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u62	Thank you, President, again, and good morning to you all. The Socialist Group shares the desire for permanent accountability in all areas of government and public services, including investment and infrastructure, as well as a medium-term forecast of the needs of the population. In addition, the socialists have always been in the construction of public services that guarantee long-term social rights. Because in that clear planning capacity we have never known that there has never been a need to set a schedule of buildings, time frames and resources. Planning has always been about health services and needs, which is why infrastructure needs have been established. I do not think that we are talking about things that are so different from the proponents and ourselves; that is why we have reached an agreement. We are talking about different criteria in dealing with it: first to determine needs and demands, then the resources that are needed. Mrs Garrido is well aware of this, because her party has a couple of legislatures, e.g. the flag of the three hospitals in Vitoria, and it was Socialist Councillor Bengoa who had to work hard to convince her to change her mind, in order to end up agreeing again. That is, the reordering of Santiago as a center of semiagudos or chronics, the relocation of services in Txagorritxu, and the opening of the new building of external consultations in the same center. All this was done without prejudice to addressing the new needs for primary care in the new neighbourhoods. But all this within that profound health reorganization, that transformation of the system that was the structuring in OSI. The key was to study health demands and needs, to foresee those that could be presented for demographic reasons and the prevalence of certain diseases, and to adapt infrastructure and equipment to the objectives set. The socialists want the reflection to remain that, because of that reflection they came to the conclusion that, despite the strangulation of the public arches in the worst of the crisis, we had to build the hospital of Urduliz, which is pending its definitive opening (which, as you know, is conditioned by aspects external to the health care itself) but which is called to be an extraordinary opportunity for Bizkaia, completing the hospital network, along with other added services, as was the opening of the hospital of Gernika, which complements in many services to Galdakao, in order to decongest it and to facilitate attention to a dispersed population. And it was also in that mandate that other investments in infrastructure essential in the future for the population of Gipuzkoa were foreseen. In a few months, the opening of the Eibar Hospital, which cost so much to be accepted and will serve a population of more than 90,000 people, as a centre for semiagute or chronic patients, is expected. Or to complete the Buenavista health center in Portugalete, or the new external consultations of Zumarraga, or the start of an infrastructure like Biocruces, no longer to attend directly to patients, but because we believe the stake for biohealth research is essential. There will be many of the attentions we will need, and Euskadi cannot miss that train. All this from the integration of centres that took place in the 1990s, after the transfer of competences, to the new infrastructures that different councillors have been planning. They are part of the essential investment to guarantee the right to health. Because we do not believe that this is about investing in brick, but rather investing in health, in that of the population in general, from the guarantee of the particular health of each one. And this investment in health is reflected in hospitals and centers, but especially in the services provided in them. Everyone who participates in the Health Commission knows what we are talking about. Except for some exceptions, we are not told by the different groups about the need for a hospital or an outpatient clinic: they come to express the need for certain care that they understand are not given, either a pediatrician or – as the other day was agreed in the commission – podology services for certain patients. Nor will we be the socialists who remain in the discourse that infrastructure cannot be foreseen because we do not know economic developments. I have already mentioned that in the worst of the crisis, when we were denied tax reforms that eased the public coffers, it did not stop investing, like the examples of Gernika or Urduliz. What we are saying is that the principle of realism must be coordinated with that of ambition, and that to date we do not know that a timetable has been necessary before to make possible the public network with which we count and the projects that we will see in months. Infrastructures the latter which, by the way – and for those who still feel their hands shaking to sign agreements – were all the result of budgetary amendments that now have continuity as a government commitment. And neither of these socialist amendments, nor one, was supported by those who today ask for certain things in the form of an amendment. Because the abertzale left has been the great absentee in the construction of public services in Euskadi, and in the past legislature, although he was here (on that occasion he was and wanted to be), he also inhibited these things. This year they have had no hesitation in supporting amendments from the People's Party, and we do not think it is wrong, we can even understand it. Since they do not notice agreeing with them striking issues in health aspects, such as the last week in the commission, together with Elkarrekin Podemos, precisely the day on which five years of medication were fulfilled. The same as the next day in plenary, on the eve of 1 May, supported other proposals relating to other issues that are not yet covered. Serve this reminder when on the left abertzale seems to have left the walls of this Parliament insufficient and has returned to old practices, to go to the street, because they understand that it gives them greater revenues in the headlines, where they can compete hand-in-hand with Elkarrekin Podemos. They always come together, as I told you before, and they get a little away from citizen needs. On the street one thing, and here's another. But the socialists do not give up the street, we advocate social dialogue, we demand that the conditions of those who provide our public services be dignified and that they be materialized in agreements that give stability to the workforce, that workers be proactive in making proposals for improvement. But then as far as we are concerned, as far as our responsibility is concerned, here, as parliamentarians and parliamentarians, we propose solutions. And from our point of view, the solutions of infrastructure and equipment go by pre-determining the needs. We have a health plan supported, as you know, unanimously by this House in the last legislature, but it had a long look, culminating in this present (2020). This is the historical practice, that of long-term health plans, which has made it possible to anticipate future needs and adapt infrastructure and equipment to what citizens want and require. We agree with that ongoing evaluation, that accountability, and we believe that planning is the guarantee of service delivery. But the buildings envisaged are not going to be the measure of the quality of service. It will be that citizens continue to think that they have a public system of quality, that we must preserve above any liquidationist attempt, as we have seen elsewhere. New health centres are needed, yes, and more resources and equipment will be needed as well, but, above all, we need an efficient social and health strategy, with care for home professionals and an active involvement of citizens in their health. We therefore believe that the amendment we agreed with Mrs Garrido reflects what she originally proposed, the philosophy of the original initiative. We therefore thank Mrs Garrido from the Socialist Group for the effort she has made to be able to sign this agreement. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u63	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Otalora, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. I would like to start from a premise that I believe, on the other hand, that we share all the groups that we are represented in this Parliament, in the conviction that the development of investments in works and infrastructure, equipment and technologies and information systems is key to improving the quality of the health service, in order to respond to the existing care services, without abandoning their improvement and expansion. On the other hand, I also do not think that anyone can question the need for proper planning of the infrastructure and equipment to be implemented, on the basis of budgetary availability, as well as the assessment of the investments that have been made. What we do not agree on is the need to have to draw up a new plan of infrastructures and equipment, since this planning we believe already exists, and it has been carried out its presentation and presentation in detail through the presentation of the government program for this legislature that carried out the lehendakari itself last February. This document reflects the commitments made by the Government with regard to Basque society over the next four years, and specifically, and as far as health is concerned, the various initiatives aimed at promoting the improvement and modernisation of the health system, the efficient management of health resources and innovation in management methods, and the enhancement of health research and innovation. This includes commitments and details of concrete initiatives in the development of those commitments, to be addressed throughout the current legislature. In particular, and with reference to the purpose of this non-legislative proposal that we are debating today, this government programme includes a number of commitments and initiatives. For not extending myself, I'll quote one of them. Ensure adequate health infrastructure to meet the needs of patients. That is why I am not going to elaborate on specific actions, since Mrs Garrido has already made a detailed statement in her speech before, and Mrs Blanco has also mentioned them earlier. Another commitment is to make it possible to sustain the health system by optimizing methods and resources, for example by systematically evaluating new technologies to keep Osakidetza's technological equipment permanently up to date. And so a series of commitments and actions and initiatives. Many of these concrete actions were also already exposed by the Health Adviser in January, when he presented the general guidelines of the department, and later, when he presented the lines of the draft budgets for 2017, a project that is already a reality. And one of the fundamental lines of this department, as the advisor himself pointed out, is precisely that of the sustainability and modernization of the health system, with the maintenance and renovation of equipment, technology and infrastructure in Osakidetza being a key aspect. To this end, in the budget for this financial year 2017, Osakidetza's investment budget for infrastructure and technology exceeds EUR 54 million, a quite significant increase over the previous financial year's budget. And it is precisely in the annual budget that the Government is drawing up which specifically reflects the actions planned for that exercise and its corresponding financial allocation, depending, as it could not otherwise be, on the commitments made. Commitments that, as I said earlier, are perfectly detailed in the government program for this legislature, of course taking into account the needs of the health system. Investments in infrastructure and equipment, with sustainability and territorial balance criteria, which allow for the proper prioritization of resources, in addition to ensuring that the health system is equipped with the infrastructures and technologies appropriate to the needs of patients and patients, to the needs of people, as they are ultimately the centre of our health system and therefore all actions carried out in this system have as their fundamental and priority objective their well-being. Therefore, and given that one of the key aspects for the modernization of our health system is the continuous renewal of equipment and technologies that will allow for more complete, safe and effective treatment for patients and patients, as well as the availability of accessible and adequate facilities, the budget of the Department of Health for each exercise adequately covers the investments to be addressed during the corresponding exercise. Because we cannot make it clear that the budgets must be in line with the priorities that have been identified and must make the most of the available resources. It is, therefore, in the budget where the actions to be taken during the relevant financial year must be specifically collected. In this regard, and you yourselves have been able to see, these investments are detailed in the budgets for 2017, so I am not going to stop to list them. It therefore distributes the money available in a balanced and appropriate way to its needs among the territories, in a sustainable way and according to the prevailing needs, always thinking of the person, as the central axis that is of our health system. This government, from the point of view of responsibility and according to the available resources, plans the investments needed by the Basque health system in its path of maintaining itself as a reference health system, not only at the level of the Spanish State, but at the European level. That being the case, and in agreement with the People's Group, we have agreed on a compromise amendment by the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group calling on the Government to develop and present an indicative planning of Osakidetza's infrastructure and equipment for this parliamentary term. Guidance planning, because let me stress something that is already known: budgetary planning is linked to the Budgets Act, which is logically conditioned by the economic resources available. And it is in this Budget Act that the objectives, actions and indicators of each of the departments, agencies, entities or societies that make up the Government are reflected. This is a usual and normal way of planning the activity of the Administration, this technique was perfectly settled in our community. This methodology implies annually the definition of objectives and actions, i.e. commitments, initiatives which are included in the relevant legislative programme to which I have referred briefly above. The Budgets Act involves medium-term investment planning, with multiannual appropriations, and in the short term with the annual budget. I insist on planning, of course, and as it cannot be otherwise, to meet the needs of the system, and above all to meet the needs of those who are users of our health system, since it is people who are the centre of action of the health system and, therefore, all the actions to be addressed have as their ultimate goal their well-being. Because planning without budgetary commitment is of little use, and it is necessary to assess and quantify it according to the specific economic situation. Moreover, budgetary legislation and planning are directly linked to the monitoring of budget implementation, and such monitoring and budgetary implementation is the basis for the evaluation of the commitment. But not only that, but, as it could not otherwise be, the Department of Health provides the Basque Parliament with timely information linked both to the monitoring and implementation of the budget and to the information that is transferred to the different parliamentary groups when they so request, and is therefore subject to a constant evaluation of their action. If this assessment is still not enough, and precisely because of this clear commitment of the Basque Government to the culture of evaluation, we have considered it appropriate to propose that the Department of Health carry out an evaluation of the investments made in Osakidetza over the past parliamentary term. At this point, I would like to thank the Group of the European People's Party for its willingness to facilitate the agreement, which has enabled us to agree on a proposal, a compromise amendment which we believe is more appropriate and realistic. It is therefore clear that the Basque Government is committed to a modern and innovative health system, equipped with the best infrastructure, facilities and equipment, a sustainable and territorially balanced model, and its firm commitment to the further development of a public, universal and quality health system, a system at the service and at the disposal of all persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u65	Thank you, Miss Otalora. It's your turn, Podemos, Lord Uryia, that's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u66	Good morning, Mrs. Tejeria. Good morning, parlamentarians, parlamentarians. The non-legislative proposal we are discussing today has sufficient elements to be agreed by the five political groups present in this Parliament and to reach a necessary agreement in the field of investment to enhance and strengthen Basque public health. We have not made any amendments to Elkarrekin Podemos, with that idea. However, parliamentarians Begoña Otalora, of the Basque Nationalist Party; Laura Garrido, of the Popular Party, and Eva Blanco have presented their views about an investment plan that meets the needs of the Basque population (who is against this!We have seen that the agreement between the five political groups has not been possible. And the agreement has not been possible because there is one aspect, which is to make decisions in democratic terms, which has not been contemplated either by the Basque Nationalist Party or by the Socialist Party or by the People's Party. It was a simple proposal, and I believe that Osakidetza, its leaders and the Department of Health have to get used to working on a democratic cross-cutting issue. Decision-making can no longer be done vertically; not only in the investment and infrastructure plan, but also in a set of decisions that also have to do with human resources, and also have to do with what we call the democratisation of the structure. In this case, that is why Elkarrekin Podemos will not vote, if it comes to the case, the negotiated amendment (which I understand has been an effort on the part of the three groups), but will support the amendment of EH Bildu, if it is the case, because it contains these elements: elements of listening, agreeing, knowing, taking into account the social partners, the local entities (not only those of the party itself), the trade unions, the citizens' associations involved in the issues we have to see, to design an investment plan, to design a technology plan. Having said that, we don't have much more to say. So, I'm going to put forward some criteria that are in international literature, in political groups, in scientific societies, to see how to evaluate and how to make an investment plan that responds in modern, World Health Organization key, to what times require. In our view, there are four criteria to be used, which should be used by our Government to evaluate the investment plan implemented and to design the investment and equipment plan under way. First, take into account the health inequalities between citizens, the health inequalities in the Basque population, as marked by the Basque Health Plan – as MP Natalia Rojo says – adopted unanimously until 2020 and with a ridiculous budget of 40,000 euros, which we have tried to triple and has not been possible. When I talk about increasing the budget for public health, for the Health Plan or for promotion strategies, or for epidemiological surveillance units, I talk about increasing budgets for system intelligence. It has not been possible, all the proposals we have made have been rejected. I do not know how the Health Plan will govern the activities of our health system without or with only budget, and yet health inequalities are important as a criterion for marking investment policies and marking equipment and technology policies. Not everyone is sick the same in Euskadi, not everyone dies the same in Euskadi. Yes, I do, but not socially. Not all social groups die and ill or have the same disability. We are interested in knowing politicians, legislators, planners, leaders of Osakidetza, where you die more and where you die more prematurely, where you get sicker, which social groups have worse health conditions: more diabetes, more stroke, more obesity, more lung cancer, more cirrhosis, more respiratory failure, more heart disease... More, and where. There are people who talk more about knowing people's postal code to see what diseases they're going to have, instead of the genetic code. It is rigorously true; at this time the social determination of health is fundamental, and the social inequalities in our people mark the social inequalities of health. These social groups should be targeted primarily at investments, resources and technologies. And there is abundant information on the website of the Department of Health and on the website of the epidemiological surveillance units to tell us where he gets more sick, and what. The second issue we want to raise as a criterion for evaluating and designing the investment plan is to take into account population dynamics. How many are we in Euskadi? Is it growing? We are decreasing: 2,160,280, which we have decreased by 13,000 Basques and Basques in the past year. Is it decreasing in all of Euskadi, or are there places where it grows in one way or another? Indeed, the population of Euskadi grows unevenly. And it grows unevenly and in unequal places. The immigrant population (5 or 6%, we know, we know the averages), where is it concentrated? In Old Helmet? In San Francisco? At the Cuchi? Where do you focus? In Passages? Where is the immigrant population concentrated, so that these averages, of 5% or 6%, are put in 20% of the resident population? In Passages? The Senegalese in Ondarroa? Bermeo? In my opinion, the contribution to the birth rate of our population, which we know is approximately 12% of the immigrant population living with us and ourselves, must be taken into account in order to organize resources properly, and to organize comprehensive and integrated care systems. We grow unequally. We know the averages, but little the differences. We have older neighborhoods, such as Irala, for example, such as Basauri, such as Sestao neighbourhoods, Barakaldo, Trapacaran; neighborhoods that are over 27% older than sixty-five years. Others rejuvenate. This population dynamics is essential to be known and taken into account by our epidemiologists and epidemiologists, and by people who design investments and technology plans. The third criterion we propose is to take into account housing and transport plans. Let Jon Darpón call Iñaki Arriola: "Hello Iñaki, it's Jon. Would you pass me the housing plan, please? - The housing plan? But what do you want for, Jon, for election purposes? "No, no, I want to see where I'm going to build health centers, I want for my investment plan. "But the housing plan by municipality and year, or of the entire legislature?" –First, by municipality and annual, and after the entire legislature. Thank you, Iñaki. - You're welcome, Jon. I'll send it to you right away." It's very simple. This is what we call the cross-sectorality of health policies: annual housing plans, where the population is concentrated, what perspective they have, are planned, and technology resources, such as housing access resources, such as communication and transport resources, are planned and interconnected among the different people making decisions in our Government. If you don't, there'll be seagulls. A legislative plan for health infrastructure. The fourth and final criterion – and I am finishing – is that technologies are effective costs, so that diagnostic and therapeutic processes are the necessary ones. The medical technology multinationals are putting multiple and varied pressures on the Basque health service, developing the most suggestive marketing actions on leaders, clinical chiefs, doctors, politicians; they also act on the media, developing technology consumption cultures in the private sector that are then attempted to move to the public arena in health care. Equipment and technology must work full-time, morning and afternoon. There are some who do so, such as linear accelerators for cancer treatment. But there are others that close at three, in the three territories. The techniques and procedures offered to the population create demands indiscriminately. Then we need every technology, every TAC, every resonance equipment, every ultrasound, every echocardiography, every eco-doppler, to have protocols and usage requirements. That's what we call rational use of our technology. The period of amortization of technology – I finish now, President – is getting faster. Technical equipment cannot be allowed not to be used rationally. Finally, every team – and this is the central idea I want to convey – technology, every infrastructure, every center, must be used with anyone who needs it, when it needs it and where it needs it. It must be assessed periodically in a democratic manner. We need scientific evidence and criteria of necessity. In our view, these should be the criteria for assessing what has been achieved and for developing the infrastructure and equipment plan requested. More democracy in decision-making, and nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u67	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Passing round to answer, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u68	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mr Uria, I really don't understand you when you talk about more democracy in decision-making. I do not know if it does not seem enough to you that today the legitimate representatives of the Basque people in this Parliament have reached an agreement which will be put to the vote, and you have the opportunity to vote on that agreement. It seems that your position will finally be against the agreement, I do not know whether motivated by the agreement and the content of the agreement itself, but rather dragged by the position that Mrs Blanco has had in this rostrum. Because I also understand, Mr Uria, that you have not tabled an amendment as a whole. I understand that, with what you said and with what you said in this speech, you agreed with an assessment and planning. I therefore believe that you have sincerely tried to put your negative vote to this agreement, which is finally going to vote in favour of EH Bildu's initiative, but I say that initially you did not make any contribution to the original proposal. You were talking about equality. I spoke in my first speech about fairness! Precisely planning... I was also talking in my speech about avoiding territorial imbalances, precisely for equitable access to health services. Mrs Blanco, there is indeed no concrete demand for you, which is the issue of participation in planning, or for planning to be done in agreement with the social partners, but I believe that the agreement does basically include what you have raised today in this rostrum and what you also put forward in your proposal: that an evaluation be carried out – in what you have also emphasized here in your presentation – and on the other hand that a planning of health resources be made. I therefore believe that the fundamental issues that you mentioned in your amendment in all in some way are also covered in this compromise amendment. Well, to clarify some point, I believe that the position of the People's Party on health has always been clear, consistent. We, Mrs Red, defend an infrastructure (if you want to call it "third infrastructure"...) of chronics specifically for the city of Vitoria, because the city of Vitoria lacks a specific infrastructure of these characteristics to provide coverage for the hospitalization needs of chronic patients. In the last legislature, in the initial plan (the last one not: the ninth legislature, in which Patxi López ruled; Government that we support with Mr Bengoa as a counselor), we talked about meeting the needs for hospitalization of chronic patients at Santiago Hospital. A concrete functional plan was developed. In this legislature, that initial proposal of some form of modification, drawing up a new functional plan in which you agree. I therefore believe that the Socialist Party, which in the previous parliamentary term claimed a specific centre for chronically ill people in Vitoria, has changed its position here. We continue to defend and we will continue to demand, of course, that we give satisfaction to that historical necessity that we have with the chronic, pluripathological, subacute patients, in the city of Vitoria, who still have to travel to Leza. And finally, I would say to the PNV spokesman that the advisor actually broke the general lines of his department here, which in turn were those contained in the government program, those commitments, but I also have to say that he himself talked about that the commitments were not closed, and "I wish I had more budget" to implement the planned investments at a rate..., or speed up the pace of implementation of those investments, and even go beyond that. I was saying this textually, and I am not going to repeat myself, because I said it in my first speech. That is what the People's Party has done with the amendments we have tabled, increasing amounts already planned for health investments in the three territories, and putting more specific items for new investments. When you talk about orientation planning... Of course, it conditions budgetary availability, and it will also condition future agreements that may exist in this House, where we can reach agreements on future health needs as well. Finally, Madam President, I would like to say that we are satisfied with the agreement. We have put forward two initiatives in these two weeks that have been adopted. One is that the Government is planning health investments with an assessment of what has been done in the previous legislature, and on the other hand, last week an agreement was possible, Mr Uria, Mrs Blanco, in that case with you, regarding the Government's drawing up a plan to reduce waiting lists. In that case, the agreement with the Government was not possible, because the Government had a more immobile position, and somehow it could not be, because we understood that the Government with its proposal was distorting the initial agreement. So, what it's all about is moving forward...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u69	Thank you, Mrs Garrido.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u70	..., what it is about is to control the government, and above all to place duties on the government, which is what the People's Party does through its initiatives. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u71	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. The representative of the EH team, Mrs. Blanco, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u72	Thanks again. Mrs Otalora told us that the lehendakari had given the relevant explanations as to the investment in that government program, but I am going to focus on two more appearances precisely from the health advisor in this House. In a first commission, when he came to introduce us his strategic lines, those of the department, sixty-two pages of transcription, only one is dedicated to investments. In the Committee on Budgets, thirty-six pages, only one is devoted to investments. In addition, it seemed, reviewing the transcripts, that he did not like the other groups to ask questions on this subject. Therefore, ninety - eight pages of transcription, two leaflets. For you, I understand that this is the participation of the groups, which is limited to that. Surely also for you it will mean planning well to inaugurate a hospital center and then thinking about what the road will be that will unite users and users with that hospital center; a center that today has neither emergency service nor other basic services. Surely it will also be thought of as a center of high resolution, new and necessary with certain services, and end up being a district hospital that does not meet the initial expectations either by asomo. Or inaugurate a fast and running health center, beautiful on the outside and backed up and with rubble on the inside. Or delay again and again a specialty center and use and sell their need in an election campaign. Or think of a health centre that is accessed through pedestrian zones and elevated steps, own and convenient access, as we all know, for urgent health transport. Or inaugurate a day hospital next door, and that same day the roof of that day hospital wins. Or make magnetic resonances in a truck, using a work container as a locker. Surely for you that's good investment planning. But, of course, it's that as the fault of all this has EH Bildu... Right, Mrs. Red? She's got EH Bildu. We're always to blame for everything. It's our mayors and mayors, zinegotzis and juntas and juntas that are stopping all that. I'm going to tell you one thing you probably don't know: the workers who were making the roof of the hospital next day, at HUA, were also EH Bildu voters. They made a bet, so he'd fall. I didn't know it anyway, I'll tell you about it. I think Mrs. Otalora has understood very well. A time has come when it has moved away from negotiation, because it has seen that there was no possibility of agreement. And it's totally licit. Each one here maintains his or her postures! What you can't do, Mrs. Garrido, is try to sell us something that isn't. Because you tell me that this compromise amendment basically reflects what we and we were saying in the amendment as a whole, and that is not true. That's not true. We were talking about evaluating the last four years, and taking into account that assessment so that a participatory way of improving and implementing an investment plan, taking into account social and trade union actors and political groups. It has nothing to do with what has been approved here. Here what has been approved is an assessment, which I understand will not lead to anything else, and an orientation planning according to the government program and budgets of 2017. Yeah. Come on, with this we will conclude that we are going to be in the Health Committee for three hours, listening to the kindness of a budget agreement, with the corresponding press release. There's only gonna be more cloth than cutting. That's it. Which will be very interesting, but that's what you've signed. There's no more. And you explained it very well in your first speech, because I think you were saying, "The contributions of the People's Party to the budgets will be taken into account in this new planning." And it's all about that: you're going to sell the management for the last four years, and you're going to submit a plan to tell you what your budget contributions have been. It's over. The rest of us are not going in, and as we are not going in, we are obviously not going to support this compromise amendment. And I end by telling Mrs Red that obviously in the last parliamentary term, and also in this one, we have reached agreements with many groups, because we have always, always thought that these agreements were good for the citizenry. With the Socialist Group too. But I will tell you one thing: what happened to me in this negotiation had not happened to me in any negotiations in the last legislature. Mrs. Garrido has had much more interest in reaching an agreement with me than you have. And in the last parliamentary term Mrs Garrido in none of the negotiations had more interest in reaching an agreement with me than Mrs Blanca Roncal. Tell me who stands in your position and who has moved, because you have not spoken to me at all in this negotiation. Now you will tell me that I have already had an interlocutor, who was the representative of the PNV, who is the representative of the Government and you certainly, well, she is identified. But I remind you that in your first round I do not know how many times you have appointed it, but you have made your presentation from the point of view of the Socialist Group (Mr Bengoa, Socialist Group, Socialist Group...), and on this occasion the Socialist Group lady has not spoken to me. Tell me who has remained in your position and who has moved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u74	Look, Mrs. Blanco, it just seems absurd to me to get into this childish speech about who you call, who you're talking about... Well, look, it seems absurd to me, but it's just that you get to absurdity..., that then I will continue with your absurdities, if there is the word in the RAE, that I don't know anymore. I haven't talked to you. And you with me? I mean, I'm asking. Or are you much more important than the Socialist Group for me to call you? I received a collective e-mail to the Health spokespersons sent by you, in which you told us what you thought of a proposal – it seems absurd to me to be talking about this in the rostrum –... in which you told us what you thought of Mrs. Garrido's proposal, didn't you? Is that calling Mrs. Red in this case? I say! It's just that you come here to tell me that if I didn't call you... Look, I'm not here to make friends or talk, to answer, or at all. I'm here to do my job. And then, I don't know... Is it because you've never been in a coalition government, in the Basque government? Just like we do. It is that the Department of Health directs it and manages it by Mr. Darpón, of the Basque Nationalist Party. Ask Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe who she talked to about the circular economy. I'm telling you to understand the trading schemes. Because I'm talking to the lady of the Basque Nationalist Party about what we agree on, and then we're talking to the opposition, which is you, Mrs. White. We are reaching this level of absurdity in this rostrum, in this legislature, in the Basque Parliament. He has lowered the level a little bit, a little bit, what was spoken of before and what is spoken of now. And you are not going to give me lessons either from parliamentary or negotiation, or from where we are and where we are. Because, man, Mrs. White, to measure the importance of things by the sheets they occupy in a document... Well, Mr. Darpón, next time take ten sheets to tell you something that fits into one, so let's spend a little more leaves. Because, look, Mrs Blanco, the investments are measured in the budget amount that a government brings to something, and that sheet, which for you is so nimia, was divided into three columns (see if I prepare the topics): background blue, three columns, each one by province, in which it explained the amount of millions of euros that the Basque Government was going to invest in the Department of Health, by the way, one of the departments with the highest budget amount agreed upon. Is it worth less because it's on a sheet? I mean, I'm asking. Or do we have to put the millions of euros in three hundred sheets to make Bildu more important? Man, Mrs. White, what do you want me to tell you? Say you don't want to agree with the government parties, say you don't agree with the content of the amendment, say you're going to do no, no, not everything they propose PNV and PSE, because it's Bildu's chosen strategy right now. But using a woman parliamentarian doesn't call her to say that the Socialist Party has changed its mind... No, he hasn't changed his mind! That we are part of a coalition government! Or haven't we caught him yet? That the elections were in September! And then there's one thing called loyalty, and loyalty says that when you're part of a government you negotiate and deal with whom you're part of the government, and then you try to reach political agreements with the rest. Mr Uria, agreements in democratic terms. Because so democratic is what you propose, with what others do not agree... Democratic key between Democrats of democratic parties. Then I will not allow you to say that the decisions that this government makes are not in democratic terms. Tell them they're not in code for Podemos. Or is the democratic key to Podemos in circles, to return to the circles before, or to assemblies, or from top down, or from left to right, or how? No way! That you don't like what we've decided? Perfect, vote against. But don't say they don't have democracy or that they're not made in a democratic way. Because I will not allow either you or anyone else to learn about democracy. I don't accept it! And you were talking about equality, equality in health services that Basque citizenship should receive. Of course, I agree. That you have to listen, that you have to remember, that you have to know. Sure! To agree you have to listen, and to agree you have to know. We have to do everything. But here I don't know why it gives me that we're here to do something else. We're coming to an opposition. I understand that you say, "We would like to have an assessment of what this government proposes in health, of what has been done before, a diagnosis." Well, we've already told you we agree! "And planning." And I said, I told the two groups that they are going to vote against, that I am talking about service planning and how important it is, beyond bricks, sheets, calls and emails. Because that's what we are! And then the Socialist Party has not changed. The Socialist Party was opposition and we are government, and there is one thing that is called loyalty, of which you have no idea. Why? Because they don't know how to make deals, and I refer to history. And all it takes is going to the hemerotheque of this country's history to see who has been part of the agreements and the construction of Euskadi and who have been watching, demonstrating outside, bringing shirts and voting against everything. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u75	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians, Mrs. Attalora, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u76	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Well, I'm a lot more relaxed than Mrs. Red. To comment on a number of issues, and in principle to say that nobody escapes that the concrete decision of each of the projects to be launched annually is conditioned by a multitude of factors, many of which also go beyond the strictly sanitary sphere: balanced distribution of resources, availability of locations, adequacy of facilities... In addition, little can be done without economic resources, both in this and in other areas. In any case, we have agreed with the Socialist Group and the People's Group that the Department of Health should make an indicative planning of investments in Osakidetza, but that planning should be made from the responsibility and realism provided by the existing economic resources. Let's see how far we can go with the resources we have at our disposal. In this regard, we believe that the Government has demonstrated year by year a strong commitment to the resources available to ensure infrastructure and technology in line with the assistance needs of our citizens, providing the budgets of the Department of Health with an important economic endowment for this purpose, distributing the money in a balanced manner among the territories, in a sustainable manner, with adequate investment to all of them, meeting the prevailing needs. Mrs Blanco, Mr Uria, when analysing needs, account is also taken, as far as possible, of the assessment of the professionals and professionals of the different organisations, who are those who know these needs first-hand, and, where appropriate, of citizenship. We do not, however, understand the approach taken by EH Bildu, Mrs Blanco, that the opinion of the trade unions should be sought, whose sphere of action we believe should be restricted to defending the interests of workers, of course, to the area of collective bargaining. We do not fully understand what that proposal is. Anyway, as you have also indicated, we have tried to approach, we have come to where we have come from, and, well, it has been a shame. Mrs Garrido, without prejudice to the agreement we have reached, let me tell you one thing: in all the territories there is an important investment effort, in all; in Álava too, of course. All it has to do is make an analysis, a review of the investments that were made in the last legislature. Investor effort is evident, and so it is. However, we highlight and value the agreement we have reached. Mr Uria, I am left with the concepts of equity, territorial cohesion and quality of the Basque health system. I prefer them to those you call lack of democracy and supposed inequalities. I'm sorry you didn't join the agreement. The Government focuses its efforts on investing in a sustainable public health system. The Government has a clear commitment to quality public health, which is equipped with the infrastructures and technologies that a high-level health system like ours deserves. Undoubtedly, this investor effort is always worth it, for the sake of preserving and maintaining our health system. Because we must not forget that Osakidetza is one of the best-valued public services, although there are those who are committed to insisting on the opposite, and we must continue to work to keep it that way. In any case, we believe that Osakidetza continues to advance along this path of continuous improvement, on the right path, which does not mean that there is no room for improvement. There is always, as in any sphere of life. In this we are both the Government and the groups that support it, and investment is also being directed towards this, in order to continue to ensure a public, universal and quality health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u77	Thank you, Miss Otalora. And, finally, the representative of the Podemos, Mr. Uria, is your word. Aren't you going to say a word? Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the half-correction signed by Euskal Socialists and Euzian patriots. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 71; the votes are 72; the supporters 45; the opponents are 27; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u78	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. At this point, I'll stop the whole meeting. Yeah? We'll be back at 14:45. Si no corto mouth, voleríamos... This point will last longer and longer, right? It's 14:45 a.m. to come back at 1:00, maybe coming home faster at 15 o'clock. Come back at 3:00. We come back at 3:00. Yeah? It was one o'clock in the afternoon and thirty-two. The meeting begins again at three o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u79	Good afternoon. Forth point on the theme list: "Mutation, introduced by the members of the CETA, of the CETA, which the European Union and Canada have signed. Discipline and final resolution. The proposor's turn, representative of the EH Collector, Mr. Otero, is yours to present and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u80	Good afternoon, everyone. Apparently, this motion that we brought here today didn't interest you. No recommendations, from the groups of Populars, Sociists, or Jeltzanists, and they seem to come with a negative round, though it seems strange to us by the sight of what is required. Let me, the few who are present, transport them a little in time and space. Let's go to January 25, 2011, also known as the Day of Wrath in Egypt. Thousands of protesters fill Tahrir Square in Cairo. They begin the Egyptian version of the Arab Spring. They protest because they are fed up, protest corruption, protest wages of misery. From that moment on, some things change. Successive governments that followed the fall of Mubarak tried to take steps to calm the unrest. I won't go into details. The story is known, and the result is more sour than sweet. But there is one detail that I would like to emphasize: over time one of the few achievements of those protests was considered to be the increase in the minimum wage, an increase that could be considered important. Was it a long time? Well, no. If it was 41 euros, the minimum wage would be 72 euros. You see, it might seem a little bit, but to the transnational company Veolia that seemed like a stroke, a savage. Veolia then managed the waste water in Alexandria, a privatized service, of course, and paid the minimum wage to most of its employees: 41 euros. So, in the face of such abuse of raising the minimum wage and having to pay their employees and employees the amount of 72 euros of the new salary, it seemed inconsumable, so on 25 June 2012 he denounced the Egyptian State for violating its legitimate right to obtain a reasonable business benefit. Veolia's complaint was filed on behalf of the investment treaty signed between France and Egypt, and the reason was that the new labour law contravened the commitments made within the framework of public-private cooperation signed with the city of Alexandria for water treatment. In other words, the increase in the minimum wage was considered a brake on free business or free profit. That is the case, as it is, and the dispute still persists. And someone might wonder why Veolia does such a thing. Well, it's very simple: it does because it can. You can skip Egyptian laws without any problem, because it has been a strong framework, a private international legal architecture, which some have baptized as lex mercadoria, which protects large companies, which are the only ones that can face these judicial processes in front of the states and their laws. Do not imagine that this case of mine is either a single or a loose case. There are hundreds of such cases in private trading courts at the present day. The state is paying millions of dollars to the transnational corporations, to protect the workers, or to guard the environment: Because to say that Australia burns in tobacco packets is harmful because Argentina freezes the price of basic materials, because Germany wants to close the nuclear Plants. Any good reason is to waste the state. To protect international investment and trade, more than 3,000 contracts have been signed in the last three decades. There's a whole program running for benefit and damage to big companies and capitals. What the commercial institutions of the world did not succeed, the whole world being reduced to the rules of free commerce, is now forming a compact network between the two sides and the agreements of the country; By a privatizing justice, by saying that the sovereignty of the people was abolished, and that of human rights or worthy conditions of labour. This motion of today follows an interpelation of the CETA between Canada and Europe. But he remembers the TTIP deal in the fridge, or the ISSA agreement that goes around the services that are on the way, and so on. And this motion has everything in its aim. But since CETA comes to the thread of the agreement, and in a short time let me examine the last landmarks around this agreement. On the 30th of October, 2016, after calming the tumult and opposition of the Belgian Valerian, the European Union and Canada signed a fatal alliance for free trade called CETA. Apart from this signature, two more steps were necessary to force this arrangement in its entirety. The first was the consent of the European legislatures, which was obtained on the 15th of February. This step enabled the arrangement to be partially introduced. But as the agreement is mixed, all the States will have to confirm it by their contrivances. From the 28 States of Europe alone has been confirmed by Latvia, and therefore the agreement of the CETA must still be granted in the future by the 27 States, among whom, of course, the State of Spain. In Madrid, it seems, there's a great hurry to put that matter to an end, and the Minister's Council has already agreed to send the matter to Congress. So it's likely that before summer it can be confirmed. I won't get in much on CETA terms. He was arguing in February, and our chief concern for this treaty was explained, and the Government also showed its point by Mr. Subauzu. Obviously, our views are far removed, and we have shown this when the votes have arrived. In Brussels Euskal Herria Bildu voted no to the confirmation of the treaty, as well as the parties that are in Elkarrekin, while the People's Party and the Basque Nationalist Party voted in favour. Special attention deserves once again the Socialist Party, which once again voted in favour and without unanimity and with its nose covered, in another display of contradiction in this flight forward into which they have entered. Elena Valenciano on voting day said CETA is a bad deal, but they had voted yes because they are in favour of free trade. In any case, CETA has not been the first and will not be the last battle in this plot of treaties in which you, aligned with the needs of corporate power, will collate us. And I say "collar" because I'm afraid today is going to prove once again that Susan George was right when she called treatises-vampir to these treatises. Like vampires, these treatises need nocturnal action, lack of public knowledge, they hide from the spotlight, and, like vampires, if they are exposed to light, they become deactivated and die. And the CETA deal, and those who are to come, have a lot to hide, and it will have a lot of influence. We believe that the reports of the Chinese and experts say so, the CETA agreement guarantees not the principle of prudence in Europe, and will lead to the inhibition of new requests. The damage to the first sector may be great, and the companies of the United States will be regarded as a gateway to the new legal structure spread through the CETA. In any case, today we are not asking this House to rule on CETA or any other treaty. That is why I cannot hide my surprise, even my indignation, from the position you have anticipated you will defend. In the transaction made between Elkarrekin Podemos and Euskal Herria Bildu something very basic is asked, I would say that even elementary. It is specifically requested to make a presentation in relation to the recently negotiated free trade agreements, and where appropriate approved, between the European Union and different states or economic areas (such as CETA, TTIP, TISA or others), in order to raise the proposals and opinions of the different collectives and agents, to know the reflections of different expert persons, to ensure public knowledge of those agreements, and for this Parliament to be informed before issuing considerations, pronouncements or requests in relation to those agreements. Our aim is, then, to listen to agents, to experts; to have public knowledge, and to have this Parliament informed before making a statement or asking for something about it. This is what you're going to say no to. And this can only have one reason: you have a panic in the public debate; you, when you say transparency, seek nocturnality. You intuit those who benefit from these agreements, and you launch them without glances, because your party interests are indistinguishable from corporate profit. And they limit themselves to saying one thing or the other, as the debate that we present to them comes, provided that the master is not harmed. Azpiazu jauna berak, aurreko eztabaidan, hau esaten zidan Gobernuaren izenean: "The European Union has certainly learned many lessons about transparency and accountability during all these negotiation processes and the criticisms they have been subjected to. I, for my part, have no way of recognizing that the movements of criticism of trade agreements have made a positive contribution, in the sense of moving towards greater transparency and control of citizens." But how can we be in favour of a critical opposition that improves the agreements, while at the same time preventing their challenges in Parliament from being studied here? Arantxa Tapia's words in the last legislature, when he spoke about the TTIP and said that "We have to consider that negotiations on this treaty include areas that fall also in some cases, as in Euskadi, in much more local and regional areas, and that the relevant administrations and parliaments must speak". Or when he said, "In addition, the Basque Government, in exercise of the transparency it demands, will promote the holding of briefings with each and every one of the civil society actors in this country. That is our will." And where is the will? And where is that transparency alluded to? In the memory trunk? How many debate initiatives have you put forward on CETA? Where are the briefing sessions? Or was it all a big lie? There are more than one problem here. I've explained one. It's not the lack of transparency, though, it's the only problem. Another, very important, is within reach. Valerian showed us a few months ago that, if we had any jurisdiction, the agreements could be conditioned. As we said the other day, Valeria, at first, refused the agreement and hasn't confirmed it yet. After the violent negotiation, he added an appendix to the original agreement for 12 pages. We said it didn't suit us enough, but what happened in Vallon is considered positive in three senses: for the perfect cultivation and dispute they have made, by the content of the appendix, and by the putting their jurisdictions in value. How is it possible that Jeltarian Party wants to reverse this power? Is there not a dispute about auto-generacy and its boundaries open in this Chamber, this time of law? Don't you think it's interesting that even in international trade, like in all other countries, we should pursue the right to decide? Should not this parliament be binding decisions on this subject? For today you agree with the CETA agreement, and what happens tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, TTIP or ISSA or any other arrangement if you don't agree? Shouldn't we at least claim a right to say yes or no? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u81	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos, Mr Martínez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u82	Thank you. Good afternoon. Today we are discussing a trade treaty, in this case with Canada. We are trying to put this initiative, with the motion of Euskal Herria Bildu and with the amendments we have made and with the compromise we have put forward, light and stenographers. It is about discussing something that for our coalition must be fundamental, because it will affect the lives of all. But I correct myself: we wouldn't even have to debate the CETA. We are debating whether this Parliament can debate or not discuss this treaty; whether we can have a public debate, calm, with opinions, or we have to move absolutely from the issue, as the Basque Parliament, and hide this debate from Basque citizens. This proposal tries to know opinions, tries to know reports, tries to know proposals, and, as Mikel Otero said, we think that the fear that exists is that fear of that definition that also said – which also had it in the speech – Susan George, that these treatises were like vampires, that you just have to give them the light to show their true face and to die. Today it seems regrettable that we are coming to this situation, and that a proposal as simple and simple as the one we wanted to put forward will be rejected, and that Basque citizens will be robbed of a debate, that participation in a debate that can affect their lives will be stolen. And I will take the time to determine some of the aspects that concern us about this agreement. In his speech, Councillor Azpiazu, on 3 February, said that CETA could lead to the elimination of customs duties, especially for industrial products, the opening of the services market, or guarantees of non-discrimination by investors. He went on to say: "The CETA will not affect our acquis communautaire". Well, here we come to deny the biggest, because these new generation treaties what they intend to do is get rid of the tariff barriers... They do not intend to remove those tariff barriers, which are already, as most of you will surely know, minimal in the world economy, except in very specific cases. What they seek to eliminate is something that neoliberals call barriers to trade, such as reducing measures to protect health or the environment, price control, restrictions on quotas for trade policy, export restrictions, restrictions on public procurement, phytosanitary standards, or labour regulations. That is what they seek to reduce these treaties, and not other tariff barriers that virtually no longer exist. Because the fact that this treaty is based on an OECD document of 2012, which is where we find the literature that hides the treaty, which is spoken of (how not, it had to appear!) of the only objective, which is the maximisation of benefits. That is the objective set by the OECD for this type of treaty, and in particular for this type of treaty, which we are debating today. Because it's been saying like a nutshell that the regulatory cooperation that integrates CETA... he said that the parties would enter the regulatory cooperation processes, that they had all their lives been arbitration tribunals; that they would enter on a voluntary basis. But if we continue to read the treaty, there are other instruments that do establish that mandatory nature. Where, therefore, is volunteering? Where is the voluntariness in certain items, such as the 23, the 24, the 27, the 29...? As can be seen, these courts will indeed exist. There are also other elements that we consider questionable, even dangerous, of CETA, and one of them is its status as a living treaty. What's that supposed to mean? That through the committees, nine specialized committees and a joint committee, CETA includes ways to develop its content in a manner that is post-approval. In other words, the Congress of Deputies in June will approve the CETA treaty knowing that it will then be modified, stealing back the debate from the citizenry, without knowing where it will go. As you can see, not only do you intend to give this welcome... Well, not even this welcome, because the debate is not going to take place in this Parliament, even though some in the government give so much credit to the concept of sovereignty. Sovereignty would be to be able to discuss this sort of thing, as other parliaments, as the one in Wallonia has done. They will welcome a treaty that can mutate, and that can mutate to we do not know what. They also commit, among other things, to a treaty that, like a triler, can change the rules of the game in half a game. The power of transnational corporations certainly does not affect in any way what will change the free trade treaty over the years of its existence. Because in Euskadi we can also suffer some of its consequences, because neither in this, of course, are we an island. We have adopted many times in this House unanimously, and others by a majority, measures, for example, against fracking. Well, well, we see that in chapter 24, for example, there is an environmental protection clause. So far so good. But in Chapter 5.9 there is a clause that makes it subject to costs and efficiency. What's more worth? What claims are being made in most free trade courts, which are most being claimed to be measures against environmental protection, are the biggest complaints being made? What more will it weigh? It should be borne in mind here that 75% of the world's mining companies are registered in Canada, which I am not saying. That there is a very important mining wealth in the country, but that there is also a lot of tax residence of these companies around the world there, because of the fiscal flexibility that it has, and because Canada also has a right of free access to publicly owned lands, which means that in Canada the whole mountain is oregano; that however it can be traded, with the whole land. Many international organizations have denounced the abuses of these mining companies and the lack of defence before the law of those who want to investigate civilly alleged crimes. Well, this treaty does... I'm not saying it's going to happen, but it does make it easy for that to happen around here too. Because we are concerned, because we are defenders of the regulatory power of the State, that that regulatory power is diminished. So, we could also ask ourselves about this treaty, how the signature can benefit the people we live in in Euskadi, how it benefits our primary sector (baserritras, livestock...) an agreement with Canada, one of the world leaders in beef export, when, for example, the European Union has already agreed that Canada exports 50,000 additional tonnes duty-free, which said before that one of the sectors that still has high tariffs is that of agriculture and livestock. How is that going to benefit Basque and Basque basers? Because CETA can also affect a lot more, because it is, according to the European Union, one of the most ambitious agreements signed so far (we will also see that of TTIP and TISA, which come next). But it does not include safeguards, for example, for the protection of SMEs, which will also be affected by this treaty, the backbone of the Basque economy. It does not safeguard two fundamental things, such as labour protection or, for example, designations of origin. And it gives more facilities, even more than there are, to the privatization of public services. We also know that in the State budget agreement there is also a clause to prevent re-municipalization, but now, in addition to that, this treaty makes it easier to privatize public services. The truth is, as I said, that this CETA social clause does not protect the labour rights of our citizens, and is unable to prevent the loss of jobs, the reduction of the rights of the workers themselves. Because it is going to be said – and I am sure – here by the three parties that are going to vote against this initiative, probably, that free trade without barriers is what creates jobs and what energizes the world, which creates jobs, which even improves working conditions, but all the data indicates just the opposite. Well, these and other aspects are the ones that we wanted to discuss in a paper, in a simple paper, so that experts from all sides, people who we called us and people who called you, to talk about the implications of these treaties, also TISA and TTIP, because we believe that they need to be discussed and clarified. Because I am sure that we could have said a lot more in this speech, but we could have put forward a lot of proposals to improve that treaty. A presentation where all these dark points could be clarified and discussed, because once again we ask you to join this request which is only intended to shed light on these treaties. If you are not afraid, if you are not afraid of this monster that is destroyed by light, vote in favour. If you are not afraid that citizens will know what you sign in Europe with your nose covered, as Mr Otero has said, that not even the European Socialist Party as a whole voted in favour of the treaty (yes Spanish), if you are not afraid of this kind of circumstances, let us open a paper, debate, think and transfer our proposals also to the Congress of Deputies, which is going to be the one to endorse or not this free trade agreement. We just want to open the debate, but not even that window of opportunity can be opened in this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u83	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Passing to the uncorrected teams, representing the Basque Potulag, Mr. Damborena, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u84	Thank you very much, Madam President. CETA's global economic and trade agreement – the acronyms in English, which they use – is a trade agreement between the European Union and Canada. Since 1976 the European Union has had trade agreements with Canada: in 1997, the Customs Cooperation Agreement, in 1999 the Veterinary Agreement, in 2003 the Wine Agreement, in 2007 it is agreed to carry out a further liberalisation study, in 2011 the impact study is carried out and it is estimated that GDP will grow in the European Union and in Canada. And in 2017 the European Parliament approves it. And today, as at the first point this morning, we are discussing something that is false. The first point this morning was that the Basque Government reached an agreement with the Spanish Government in the quota. You introduced this motion several months ago, so that, before the European Parliament approved the agreement with Canada, we would then take a decision here. But the European Parliament approved it in February. "We're opening a committee here to discuss..." Hey, we've all discussed it! Don't waste our time. We know they are against it, we know they are against it, they have voted against it. "No, we're going to make a paper to which experts come." Hey, we spent four years in the last legislature with the TTIP; as it was with the Yankees, they were all against it, and in the meantime they forgot that two years was hanging on the Internet, on the European Union page, the agreement with Canada. But of course, they suddenly come to the contradiction: "There it goes! We are opposed to this, and the Canadian one has just been approved!". When I was younger, the left was internationalist. It was the left! There was even a song called The International, I think, eh! Some sang it with their right hand above and others with their left hand above, but the left was supposed to be internationalist! And now it turns out that the most left-wing in the world coincides with the most nationalist extreme right-wing in the world, and they do the same to us. And I will tell you that, look, among other free trade agreements, that you have said nothing, we have with Colombia, with Peru, with South Korea, with Montenegro and Serbia (these are the last), with Albania and Bosnia, since 2008; with Morocco, South Africa, Israel and Mexico, Andorra, San Marino, Turkey, Palestine, the Faroe Islands and Tunisia. And the first of the European Union were with Iceland, Switzerland, Norway and Liechtenstein, because it was the most European area. I have never heard anyone speak against any of these treaties, until the upper left that we have in this Parliament, represented in two groups, has decided that this is very bad. For I have to tell you that, among other things, in business – as you say – with Canada the European Union imported 28 billion euros in 2015 and exported 35 billion euros to Canada. This agreement is supposed to increase that by 20%. And who do you favor? Small and medium-sized enterprises. Multinationals don't need agreements, they're already on the spot. But it seems to be necessary to remind you continually. What are you going to assume? Reduction of tariffs, reduction of costs to companies, allowing European companies to enter into trade in services... With the exception of what services? Because it's in the treaty! Is it really necessary to make a demagogy lie? What exceptions are there in these services? Health care, education, social services, water distribution and audiovisual services. You don't have to lie to oppose something. Say something reasonable to oppose, but don't lie. Greater protection for more than 140 European geographical indications of food or wine products, new investment court system that ensures that no one is going to steal the investments because suddenly a Maduro turns up and robs the staff... And it is not at the dawn of the multinationals, as you say, but it is the European Union that is going to appoint the judges. And that comes in the treaty! So, what's the point of lying? We all know how to read! Do they really need to lie so much to oppose something, to make cheap demagogy, because they have suddenly become nationalists? Respect for European standards of food safety, environmental and labour rights. It's in the treaty! It's written! Two years published on the page. No one's said anything. And they come now, because it embarrasses them, as they opposed the United States and... "There he goes, we've been hit by another one!". No one's been thrown at us. And this is a false debate of cheap demagogy. They say, "Today we're not here to pronounce." Hey, but we're all dumb, or what! We have already spoken, we have voted on it. You have voted in the European Parliament. You have voted in the European Parliament. The others have voted! What do you mean...? "We need experts to come." Hey, even Varoufakis brought us the last legislature here, to tell us how we didn't have to pay the debt, but then we asked for more debt from... Listen, please, a little rigour and seriousness. A little rigor and seriousness! We don't need any more experts here! They have already paraded, in this Parliament they have paraded. And in the European Parliament, and we have voted. We've already voted! Now what's missing? Well, as the representative of Podemos has said, the Congress of Deputies should ratify it. Point. But they bring us here the debate this, which is false. We have already had it in the European Parliament, and the final one in Congress. They bring him here, for what? To say that you are very... What? Which, of course, says, "No, it takes more transparency." Hey, two years. We've been negotiating with Canada for ten years, two years hanging on the European Union website. And they passed away. As it was the evil one in America... Right? He tells us we're afraid to argue. But how scary it's gonna be for us to argue! That we are in favour, that we have voted in favour in the European Parliament! That we're going to vote against them here! That we will vote in favour of the Congress of Deputies! Hey, we're so scared! I don't have a problem! We're in favour. And that of Morocco, which you also oppose! Yes, yes, we are in favour, we are in favour, because this is the European Union's agreement with the first economically important country. Because it's within the world's top ten economically, even if it's only 35 million inhabitants. Because we are in favour of the least developed countries being able to sell their products in Europe, and to develop, eh! Yes, we're supporters, I know you're not. But I also know that when nationalism and socialism come together they always lead to the same thing, eh! Now it turns out that Canada is the ogre of the world. I do not know, outside the European Union, you say, to see which country, with which country outside Europe, culturally, socially, we Europeans can feel more identified. And, listen, except Canada, it's complicated, because even the countries of South America have a very different concept than we have here. And now it turns out that Canada is a filibuster country, in which the environment is not taken care of. In Russia he took care of himself...! Look, the Soviet Union was taking care of him...! China has taken care of him...! Venezuela is a luxury for citizens... And Canada is a disaster. And Canadians will come to pervert the European Union and take away our environmental rights and our labour rights and our health rights. Are you guys really trying to sell this? Well, look, I'm running out of time, but since you've been quoting me beef, and I know something, and you've been telling me that basreritras, I'll tell you that for many years (I don't know, you don't know it, but I do) Basque basreritras have been buying Canadian frisonic semen to improve Basque dairy cows, and spending a paste, which maybe now saves something.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u85	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists represent the group, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u86	Yes, thank you, President. Let us see, the motion tabled today by Bildu proposes the immediate creation of a paper on the CETA trade agreement between the European Union and Canada. And the initiative that Bildu and Podemos have taken comes to say that they want to extend that presentation to the agreements that have recently been negotiated and, if necessary, approved. And for the Basque socialists this is one more occurrence, Mr Otero. One more occurrence, because much urgency must not have this presentation or this matter, when it has been seven months since that agreement was signed. It has been three months since its adoption by the European Parliament, and three months since Bildu registered his motion in this House on 7 February for treatment in today's plenary. Therefore, I do not know where is the need for immediacy and urgency in this presentation. And at the moment this agreement with Canada is in the General Courts, in particular in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to give its opinion, and the deadline for amendments ended on 28 April. Therefore, we understand that there have been times and times for these issues to be addressed, and not now in the last second. This free trade agreement with Canada has been supported by the Spanish socialists because, in the face of Trump's protectionism and Le Pen's protectionism, we are betting on a regulated and progressive globalization to preserve our position in the world. We believe that Canada is a model of a democratic and open country, with standards similar to and sometimes higher than those of Europe in its defence of the welfare, sustainability and human rights state. We do not believe that this is a matter of problems of sovereignty, or of sharing sovereignty, as Mr Podemos said before. Nor is this a problem of endangering human rights. Not at all. The agreement unequivocally preserves the European Union's standards of social, labour, environmental and consumer rights protection. The right not to lower labour standards or environmental protection to promote trade and investment is explicitly recognized. History has shown that open economies grow faster and enjoy greater wealth and prosperity, and in this case we are discussing how we better defend the Basque economy, but also the Spanish economy and the European economy. And this agreement also benefits small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the most difficult to go abroad, in order to be able to trade with their products by overcoming European barriers. For the first time, Canada recognizes and protects 145 European geographical indications that distinguish agri-food products from their place of origin and quality, of which 27 are Spanish. For the first time, European companies will be able to access Canadian procurement markets at all levels of government. The agreement has undoubtedly been improved, and also by the contribution of the European Socialists. And that is why we have made significant progress in transparency during the negotiation process, the content and access to documents have been improved, and the Commission has been required to provide regular information on that process, on the whole process, in Parliament. The documents on the agreement have been published on the Internet, and work on transparency has been ongoing and continuous. The Spanish Socialists have also succeeded in ensuring that public services, such as water, health, housing, social services and education, are perfectly included in the agreement. And it explicitly establishes the full right of governments to provide services that they consider to be public, the non-requirement to privatize any service, the right of states to return privatized services to the public domain. We also consider it of great importance that we have achieved the inclusion of an ambitious chapter on sustainable development, which incorporates the highest levels of labour and environmental protection, as well as rules on corporate social responsibility of companies. Canada is committed to signing the major ILO conventions. In fact, seven of the eight key ILO conventions have been ratified, and the procedure for ratifying the last convention on the right to trade union and collective bargaining has been initiated. The joint interpretative declaration states that neither the European Union nor Canada will be able to lower their labour laws in order to promote trade or attract investment. CETA does not alter the rights of workers to negotiate, conclude and implement collective agreements, as well as to take collective action, and also creates a framework for cooperation in trade-related labour matters of common interest, including through ILO participation and sustained dialogue with civil society, to ensure that CETA promotes trade in a way that benefits workers and supports labour protection measures. A system of public investment tribunals similar to the Court of Justice of the European Union, on a permanent basis, with public judges, independent judges and subject to a strict regime of incompatibilities, and with a code of conduct, for the resolution of investor-state disputes, has been completed. And, in short, for the Basque Socialists, as for the Spanish Socialists, CETA is a modern and progressive agreement, which takes into account the concerns of the European Union, which demonstrates the commitment of the European Union and Canada to work together and design a trade agenda based on common values. CETA is an important step forward for future EU trade agreements. In its current form, in a joint agreement, it also implies a binding joint interpretative declaration to clarify the protection of investments and to guarantee the right of states to regulate, regulatory cooperation, the shielding of public services, the protection of labour, social and environmental rights, and thus meets the conditions for being supported by socialists. And, with regard to Euskadi, CETA represents a greater integration between two advanced economies, from which economic gains can be expected with guarantees of application of European standards of safety and quality. The Finance Adviser said at the time of his inquiry that the impact of CETA in Basque will be limited, because in 2014 only 0.5% of Basque exports were destined for Canada. That amounted to 105 million euros, and turned out to be the thirty-sixth country in the ranking of destinations for Basque export. And in the chapter on imports we were at EUR 99 million, which was 0.6 % and the thirty-first country in terms of the position we held. But by the same limitation, CETA is also an opportunity for Euskadi, for the Basque market. And the Basque Socialists are not going to support Bildu's motion or the amendment they have had sex with Podemos because, first of all, as I have commented to you, the urgency they are demanding has not been motivated at all, at least rigorously, after having kept that motion in a drawer for three months and not even before the agreement signed in October 2016, even before it was ratified by the plenary of the European Parliament. We do not support it because in this House we can and must talk about everything, but sincerely, Mr Otero, those of us who were here as parliamentarians (in my case as parliamentarians) in the past TTIP's filo legislature did not see the need to create any papers to discuss that free trade agreement that was being negotiated. Nor the creation of a paper for their negotiation. And Bildu didn't even understand that it was necessary to generate any papers. In no case did he take that approach in this House, nor on the TTIP, nor on the PISA, nor on the CETA. Not even about the CETA. He didn't even bring us experts on CETA. It shouldn't have mattered. And do you think we do not debate free trade agreements in general and TTIP in particular? Well, I'm sorry to say, Mr. Otero, that we did. We discussed, and a lot. And a lot. We've been in many appearances with those experts you're talking about. In plenary and in committee we deal with TTIP. In plenary and in committee, and on various occasions. Bildu, as I say to you, has already taken care of bringing in these experts and social workers to let us know at that time his opinion on the TTIP. And the conclusion of a paper does not guarantee public knowledge of matters. And TTIP and TISA and CETA have been dealt with and voted on in a multitude of Euskadi municipalities. The issue is more than socialized, and you know it. In the three territories it has been dealt with in many municipalities, and also in the three general councils of the three historical territories. And your initiative, Mr Otero, and the amendment that you have agreed to, is to involve all groups in a trap. All of us here already have a position on CETA, because we have expressed it in the European Parliament, because we are also going to express it in the General Courts. And the TTIP and TISA negotiations we know are out of play after Trump's election as president of the United States. To whom, by the way, Bildu congratulated in his election, and showed his absolute willingness to continue cooperating to strengthen relations, recalling the important trade relations between the two countries. He meant the United States and the Basque Country, I'm not telling him anymore. Likewise, instead of proposing a paper in the Basque Parliament, they should do some internal working group to determine how Bildu and Podemos can embrace the protectionist theses of Trump and Le Pen, when their speeches do not go away... [[Berber]] When your speeches...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u87	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u88	Of course, it's just that I'm respectful, you're not. (Berbotsa)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u89	Silence, please!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u90	Of course, I have heard comments from Elena Valenciano! Not you. Well, as I tell you, to determine how Bildu and We can possibly...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u91	Time's up, Mrs. Corcuera. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u92	...how Bildu and We can embrace the protectionist theses of Trump and Le Pen, when their speeches don't get so far away from them and even use similar arguments. And, to make it clear, regarding what Mr. Otero said about Elena Valenciano, Elena Valenciano said about CETA: "This agreement is not the best possible, it is not the best possible, it is not our goal...".
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u93	Corcuera andea, loving mesedez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u94	I'm done, it's a sentence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u95	Come on.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u96	"...it's not our goal, but we're in the right direction." So let us be rigorous with the determinations and approaches that others make, even if they are our political opponents. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. I'm sorry, Mrs. Corcuera. I'm done with you. I'm sorry, I've put it out of here, and I think I'll leave you all, and then we'll leave you all, no, no, no, no, no, no, Lander, you don't have the word, but one thing: I warn you, I don't take my time away from anyone, I warn you, if you don't know it yet. I warn you, and I don't bother anyone, I don't... And I've spent more time with some of your team today, or look, I'll stay here and get it out of you if you want. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr Aguire, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u98	Yes, thank you, Mr. President, good afternoon to all. Mr. Otero, I won't deny that I've been expecting this discussion for a long time. Besides, it seems to me absolutely lawful and democratic to bring about its own views. These discussions allow a clearer view of each, and it is plain that in this chamber we have not all the same view, the same comment, and much less the same rating of CETA. I told you that I had long expected to bring up this CETA discussion, because in the last three years we've had so many motives, questions, interpelations, an example, an average proposal, but always about TTIP, not one of them. And this is what I didn't understand. The CETA treaty, the CETA negotiations, ended three years ago. Where have you been so far? Were you sleeping? It's a huge depot, isn't it? Eta... Well, by the way, your intervention and argument is a faithful copy, I would say a copy and paste, of Mr Matute's arguments, changing the acronym TTIP to the acronym CETA, even if they are two different treatises. And, as you yourself have said, over the past 30 years, the European Union has signed more than 1,300 free trade treaties. Where were you? What importance have you given him? When were you worried? I to this House recently, in the debate on Colombia, brought the free trade agreement that had been signed by the European Union and Colombia, and they had not even heard. Beraz, nik uste dut tratatuak ekartzen ditugula empresak babesteko, azokak edo merkatuk irekitzeko. They are not meant to favour such or such transnational or multinational. They are designed to favour the consumer, to promote free competition and to prevent protectionism, such as that of Mr Donald Trump. CETA has been negotiated to avoid monopolies, monopolies that can burden public procurement and leave the door open to a number of abuses. And, of course, CETA is designed to allow our companies to enter markets that today have no access to. You, in a previous discussion, in a happy education, said: "This evening we have brought the matter here for three reasons: because we wish to express our position and to know the government, because there seem to be many questions about the agreement, and the third, because the noise of this TTIP agreement has prevented our attention to this agreement." Well, you've expressed your position very well, you know the government, the rest of the political teams. But I don't agree with you that when you say that he caused trouble or noise in our society. I'd say not a sound. Four months ago, look, this year in January, at the center of the Sanstro Michele, which the platform against TTIP arranged a public discussion about CETA. There we were, Mr. Becerra, on your side, Mr. Matute, and I went by EAJ. Eight political delegates were invited, and there was a moderator. Nine people at table, and in the living room, all nine of them included, we were not even 30 people. So I'd say that CETA's never been to the book of euscal society. Eta gero beste batzuek –eta zuek barne ere bai – isaten duzue: "The negotiations were secret". Ez da egia! When the European Commission started the process in 2009, the first task was to commission an impact assessment on sustainability. It encouraged all stakeholders to comment on all issues affecting civil society and the various economic and social sectors of the European Union. During the five years of negotiations, the Commission has held numerous meetings and dialogues with civil society. That you and I weren't invited to that meeting doesn't mean it was secret. At the same time, the Commission has not only cooperated with the Member States, but has also cooperated very closely with the European Parliament, systematically informing them of all the progress made in the negotiations. As has been said here more than once, negotiations are closed in February 2014. Until 2016, the lawyers of the Commission and Parliament, but also of the Supreme Court of Germany, review the 1,598 pages of CETA, and have found absolutely nothing against European law, nothing against our socio-economic model. It was signed on 30 October 2016 by the 28 member states, including Belgium and Wallonia. Because Belgium signed, and Wallonia has an annex in the part which concerns only Belgium. They signed all member states: the north, south, east, west, conservatives, progressives, Merkel and Tsipras. Everyone signed the agreement unanimously. And, as has also been said here, the agreement will eliminate 99% of tariffs, give access to a market of 30 billion euros... I would also like to stress that the agreement fully respects European standards in matters such as food security or workers' rights, and includes all the guarantees necessary to ensure that the economic benefit does not run counter to democracy, but favours the environment, health and consumer safety. There may be some issue in the 1,598 pages that could negatively affect a sector. Maybe. But CETA as a whole is a very positive treaty for Europe, and therefore a very positive treaty for Euskadi. And – as Mrs Corcuera has also said – CETA is accompanied by an interpretative instrument accepted by Canada, which has exactly the same legal value as the treaty and which says everything that is not allowed, such as the prohibition on lowering social and environmental standards. And CETA clearly states that the definition of public services belongs to the states; that everyone is free to privatize, but also to nationalize a particular service. CETA includes provisions on public procurement, investment protection, intellectual property rights, etc. I won't repeat it. And you have also mentioned ISDS. ISDS disappears, disappears, and is replaced by investment courts, the IFS (yes, Investment Court System). And that court will be public, not based on temporary courts, and will have independent professional judges appointed by each of the parties, by Canada and by the European Union. As I have said before, the discussion of the day is lawful and democratic. Even if we are opposed to the treaty, we are in favor of the alliance, and we believe that it will be good for Europe as well as for the Basques. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u99	Thank you, Mr Aguire. In answer time, Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u100	Yes, good afternoon again. I don't know what the time will give me, but I'll try... Well, it goes a little for everyone. You'll tell us when it's good for you to bring them the topics, and so you'll make us a temporary list so we never get wrong, because I feel like it's always bad for you. When we do not bring the subjects, because we do not bring them and we have lost track; when we bring them, because it is not good for you. But, well, the case is that here you are going to vote a non-round to create a paper that transcends the CETA (which also touches the CETA, but which transcends it), but that wanted me to talk about the free trade treaties, those that have been signed and can be signed. And, on the other hand, the interpretative document, because, if not, then this will be forgotten to me. Article 31 of the Vienna Convention states that "the interpretation of any treaty must first be done in accordance with its original text, and secondly with interpretative declarations and texts", which means that you are not saying things correctly, Mr. Aguirre, when you say that you are going to have the same legal value, because you are not going to have it. You say, even in euscal society, this is no responsibility. It seems to me that when you don't care for the euscal society on this subject, you too have a great share of guilt or responsibility. And another thing about transparency. It is curious that you talk about how transparent the treaty is, when the impact report that has been mentioned here does not exist in Spanish (it does not exist), and that famous text that you are talking about, which has been agreed since 2014, has not been translated until six months ago. It's funny that you talk about this coming from afar and that it's ventilated. By going through parts of the things that have been said, Trump has been appointed a couple of times. Make no mistake about Trump and free trade; pay attention to what the new American administration is saying, and please stop already from cheap demagogy and non-existent links. Trump and his team say that treaties must be renegotiated and that they do not like multilateral treaties, because they benefit equally large companies in different countries. And for Trump the TPP or TTIP are multilateral treaties, with many states (it is considered Europe as many states). So, what he wants is a free trade negotiated between two states, so that he can impose advantageous conditions on his companies. I mean, it would asymmetry to the highest level. So please don't confuse again, because you know you're lying, that position with the position of Euskal Herria Bildu, because it has nothing to do with it. And if it gives me a little time, in part... Mr. Damborenea, well, of course, you've come too high. I see you're giving it all up. And you tell us to see if I've asked you to see if you can read, and you obviously answer yes. And I don't know how far he can read. Let's see if he can read to the zeta! Because you know that there are 27 ratifications pending in Europe for CETA to enter into force. With this the debate remains entirely relevant, and a presentation to talk about the TTIP, TISA and other agreements would be perfectly relevant. Whether we're in the antepods or not, we're in the antepods, which is certainly clear. And in my village there was also singing, of course yes, the International was singing, and it is singing, but also in my village there was singing the Face in the Sun, among other things. And we've seen a lot of songs lately. I am surprised that the Socialist Party has not called them to order for those mockery about The International. And it will give me little time, but I did want to make an allusion to the Socialist Party. And since today I was on banners, because Mrs. Red a couple of times has talked about the subject again, I wanted to talk about her banners today. Because it is very nice to appear this same week with UGT and Commissions on the banner, and the same Mrs Mendia in her speech said, and opened it up like this, "Once again we joined the Socialist Party to this May 1st with the colleagues of UGT and Commissions, because I think we defend the same things." "I think we defend the same things." What does UGT defend at CETA? It says that it does not secure public services, that it does not secure employment, that it is problematic with the investor-State dispute mechanism ICS, that it does not rule out that social and environmental standards can be interpreted as barriers to trade, that it does not establish a mechanism of legal sanctions that punishes violations of labour and environmental legislation, that in constitutional democratic states no special rights are required for private investors, so it is not necessary to establish a special investment court... For it is not clear to me that you defend the same thing as UGT and Commissions! What we think is that you in this kind of case always doubt, but always decant to the same side. And we see it every day, to see how far it can go, how much misery it can go to, by giving ourselves, to the left-wing groups that we come with these kinds of initiatives, as well as all the European Social Democracy, which is in the middle of the hecatomb, and that they can continue to sit here with the plate, so that they can share crumbs that they really control in cotar. Just like that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u101	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Together the representative of the Podemos, Mr Martínnez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u102	Thank you. Since the antipodes, but recognizing Mr Damborenea's consistency I think it's fair. I believe that you are the only person in this area who has spoken consistently, who has vigorously defended the agreement, and who has vigorously defended stealing the debate also from this Parliament and the possibility of making a presentation. And of course we keep singing The International, don't worry. Until the world changes base, of course it does. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, 45% of the European Socialist parliamentary group did not support CETA. The Socialist Euro MP of the Czech Republic Jan Keller says that he is concerned about the abuse they can make of the text, for example, non-Canadian corporations, or the impact this may have on the negotiation of the TTIP, the free trade agreement with the United States, or he is concerned about excessive liberalization of free trade. These are some of the arguments that have been put forward by your colleagues in the European Parliament. And I knew I was coming with Trump, I knew you were coming with Le Pen, but the problem, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, and I say it again, that I said it a few months ago, is not that our delegation, that Bildu, that We Can, that United Left in the European Parliament coincide in a vote with Le Pen. The problem is that you agree in this vote with the People's Party on your own arguments. That's the problem, not another one. That's the problem. If you protect the dispute, why don't you protect a simple power? Our proposal is very simple: to form a power in this parliament, to discuss CETA, TTIP. It is very well to dispute in Europe; but here in Euskakidin, the Basque Parliament must also discuss and even give his opinion about these treatises. Because, even if it were true that no initiatives had been brought to this Parliament, what is it, that we cannot do it now? Is that the problem? Is it the problem that we cannot mark the orders of the day of what we want to mark in this plenary? Because the Walloon Parliament, also an autonomous parliament or a federation of what forms Belgium, was able to participate, it was able to express its opinion, and blocked CETA for a while. And he brought opinions and stories. That we can then agree with them or not, but he was able to contribute to that debate. And we do not want to steal that debate from Basque citizenship either, because, as long as it takes to talk, it will never be little if the consequences can be so serious for Basque citizenship. And we are not going to stand by, because I am announcing that if this paper is rejected tomorrow, we will record the request for Parliamentarians from the Walloon Parliament to come and explain what is a parliament worthy of being called a parliament, which represents its people, in order to be able to discuss matters affecting its people. And we're going to do it because we're in our right. Don't you want a paper? Well, we'll bring people in until they get bored, and we'll also try to change their minds. We probably have it complicated, especially with Mr Damborenea, but we will not fail to demonstrate that these treaties are harmful to Basque citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u103	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. Damboreea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u104	Thank you very much, Madam President. You were entangled with the TTIP because it was the U.S., the Yankees. If this debate we had here last year's legislature! If it gets to be with Russia there would be no problem, but as the Yankees were, because it had to... And in the meantime, twenty free trade treaties have been collated with twenty other countries, which have not mattered to you at all. But, of course, incoherence is what leads you today to the ridiculous stance you're all holding here. Of course they match Trump, Le Pen, the Dutch...! Even the Brexit match! But I don't know why... Hey, if you think so, say so. Why are you ashamed? What's embarrassing them? Sure, what's embarrassing them? They don't believe in the European Union? That they don't want the European Union? They don't want the euro? Well, say it. It's okay! Mrs. Le Pen says so. Same as you, but she says it. And you vote with her. But don't bother to be told this. That's the way it is! And, as I told you the other day, listen, Mr. Trump was congratulated by you. The others don't congratulate you at all. You tell us it's bad for us because we're going to vote a no... No, no! Let them understand me: we voted yes to the treaty with Canada. Okay? We do not vote no, we vote yes. We vote yes. We vote in Europe, and we will vote in the Congress of Deputies. Of course, now it turns out that transparency is because it was in English. Then it wasn't transparent. Two years hung in English was not transparency. And in the municipalities of Bildu, which only notify in Basque, is that transparency? No, I mean for comment. If we talk about transparency like this... Of course, Mr. Trump has loaded the treaty that Obama had with Asia, he's going to load the one in Mexico and the one in Canada... Well, I agree with you, what do you want me to say? Man, of course, yes! But then don't come to us with that "No, it's that across Canada the Yankees are going to...". They're in the same thing. Look, I'm going to tell you one thing: they long for the franchise... But come on! Of course, the autarchic state, the monopolies, the state puts prices, no one can sell, no one can come. Like French farmers: now we burn the trucks, now we burn such... They're on it. They're on it. That's his approach. That is the one who is bringing us to this House today. And in the end the representative of Podemos told us that the problem is not the agreement; the problem is that the PP votes it. Well, what bad luck you guys have! What do you want me to tell you? We are in favour, we are voting for it in Europe, and we are going to vote for it and we are going to ratify it in Madrid. Hey, is it possible that any European state will charge it? It's possible. Maybe the Greeks will take it and vote no! I think it would be bad for Europe and bad for Canada, and bad for the Basque Country and bad for Spain. But you would be delighted, because what you claim is that the things that can be good will not be done. That is your approach in this House. And if you are going to ask the Walloons to appear, I beg you to ask her in the committee of petitions, petitions and other things that are out there. And of course the economy has not brought it to us. [[Barres]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u105	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u106	Yes, thank you, President. Look, gentlemen of Bildu and Podemos, neither cheat nor cheat, because we do not need a paper to know the position of the parliamentary groups on the free trade agreement with Canada. You know him from today, in case you wanted or needed some more ratification. And for socialists it is not the same CETA, already negotiated and agreed, that TTIP, which is in negotiation or freezing phase, or TISA. It is not the same, because the phase in which the agreements are found is not the same. You know that each agreement is different, and there is no free trade framework agreement that applies to all countries that want to agree with the European Union, but there is a framework protocol opposing free trade agreements by some political and social groups, regardless of which country they intend to negotiate and agree with. And the Socialists saw the European Union's trade policy as a dual-purpose instrument. First, to establish better regulation of trade, so that it is fair, while protecting and extending European social, labour and environmental standards, defending them from dumping from third countries. And secondly, an objective, that of promoting human rights and stimulating sustainable growth and the creation of quality jobs, enhancing the development of our industry and services. And that being the case, the Socialists do not accept or accept a single step backwards for the failure of European standards of environmental, social and labour protection. I am saying this so that it is clear and so recorded, and then we do not misunderstand some of the interventions we make. And, Mr. Otero, you were telling us, "Don't do cheap demagogy." Hey, we don't do cheap demagogy! When we say that Bildu congratulated Trump for his election, and that he showed his absolute willingness to continue cooperating to strengthen relations, recalling the important trade relations between the two countries, it was he who came out publicly! It's not like I was there. It's just that it came out publicly mentioned. So, no demagogy. Secondly, the Basque Socialists have freedom of thought and freedom of action regarding trade union action, the action of the comrades of UGT and the Workers' Commissions. Others cannot say the same, Mr Otero, with regard to other trade unions. And I'm telling you. Why did Idoia Mendia comment at her time, on May 1, in the demonstrations, and other companions and companions that we attended them together with the colleagues of UGT and Commissions, that we agreed with them? Because in the slogan of May 1 of UGT and Commissions, due to the lack of union unity, which was also claimed and others do not even pay attention to this issue, they demanded (the comrades of UGT and Commissions) stable employment, fair wages, decent pensions and more social protection. And before that, Mr Otero, and before that, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, the Basque Socialists fully agree. That's why we were very comfortable at that demonstration and demonstrations on May 1st. And finally, to the Basque socialists, who are indeed internationalists of origin and who belong to the first party that decided to ally with comrades from the rest of the world to defend the rights of all, what really scares us, what scares us, is not what you have been commenting on in this rostrum. What scares us and scares us is that walls are raised or that walls are intended to be erected to prevent something strange from coming in, something outside what we know, because we believe that from others, from them, from the outside, all the evils that haunt us always come from there. That, whether you like Bildu or not, is the thesis that you share with other examples that we now have so close, with whom we are willing to open doors for others to enter, for other markets to enter, and for us and our products to come out, on the basis of clear rules, clear commercial rules, and, above all, with rights, which has cost us a lot to win those rights, which are guaranteed for everyone. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr Aguire, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u108	Yes, thank you. Mr. Ortero, Mr MartínnezIón, let's add that everything you've said is true and that all reason is on your side. Wait a minute. Let us assume that Commissioner Cecilia Malmström, despite her impeccable professional and institutional career, both in the Swedish Government and in the European Commission, is a pathetic liar and anti-European obsessive; that everything she has said in the various appearances before the European Parliament and the media, which has been hanging on the Commission's website since 2014, is an invention and that it is all false. Let us assume, moreover, that all the officials who have participated with her for five years in the treaty negotiations have been allowed to sell or buy for a plate of lentils from multinationals and transnationals, in addition to being traitors to the European cause. We will also assume that all the officials of the twenty-eight member states who have reviewed CETA step by step are also incompetent, corrupt, and have been allowed to buy by the multinationals. Well, I don't believe it. I do not believe that, because, otherwise, they would not have unanimously approved, including Belgium, including the Tsipras Government, the CETA agreement, the CETA treaty, on 30 October 2016. I, what do you want me to say to you!, I am left with the version of Cecilia Malmström, who has consistently denied everything you two have said here throughout your speech. In addition, I am also left with the reflection of Councillor Azpiazu, alarmism that we do not share. Podemos has made a full correction, and I have here the questions Podemos has asked in the European law, which he has made to the Committee. Since 2014, do you want to know how many questions from Podemos have been asked about CETA? Xabier Benito Ziluaga, 39 questions to the European Commission, none on CETA; Tania González Peñas, 98 questions, none on CETA; Lola Sánchez Caldentey, 110 questions, none on CETA; Estefanía Torres Martínez, 115 questions, none on CETA; Miguel Urbán Crespo, 75 questions, none on CETA; and, of course, Pablo Iglesias Turrión, record absolute, 356 questions, none on CETA. So, since Podemos joined the European Parliament in 2014, 793 questions have been put to the Commission, and none about CETA. And that shows the real interest you have in the subject, which is zero potato. You have no interest in this matter. I'd even say that Mr. Jériti extended 153 to the European Board, and not one of the CETs. So, I believe that the proper functioning of democracy demands that there be doubts, that there be questions, that there be debates, interpellations, contradictory debates... but I also believe that it implies a minimum of rigour and intellectual honesty. I'm not posing. And yours has been a posture. You have had three years to ask about CETA or to contribute debates on CETA. There hasn't been one! I believe that these treaties also serve some multinationals, but ours, which in many cases are cooperatives (Irizar, Ederlan, Danok Bat) involved by workers, workers (CAF), and which will allow us from Euskadi also to have access to public markets in Canada that are blocked today. So we won't accept your motion, and I'll say again: We're on CETA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u109	Thank you, Mr Aguire. End of discussion, we'll vote for EH Collect and half-correction that Podemos signed together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 29; the opponents are 45; white, 0; abstations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u110	So the middle-line correction has been rejected. Five point in theme list: "The other proposition of Podemos as a parlamentary team together, concerning the measures which will facilitate the nationalization of the emigrants at Eucadin. Discipline and final resolution. It's the caller's turn. Mrs. Guanche has her word to introduce and take off her initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u111	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Gaur, honorary gallery natorkizue bueltan, ethorkinen eskubidei buruz hitz egitera. On 13 July 2015, Law 10/2015 on administrative reform measures in the field of the Administration of Justice and the Civil Registry was adopted. On 6 November, Royal Decree 1004/2015, regulating the procedure for the acquisition of nationality by residence, was adopted. And on September 30, 2016, the order of the Ministry of Justice that develops the precepts of the royal decree. These rules introduce substance elements that modify the procedure in relation to how it has been carried out so far. The fundamental aspect of this reform in relation to the process of obtaining nationality is that it includes the introduction of examinations aimed at accrediting, on the one hand, the knowledge of Spanish as a foreign language, and, on the other, constitutional and socio-cultural knowledge. The first requires the accreditation of a minimum level of language, and the second consists of twenty-five closed questions, of which a minimum of fifteen must be correctly answered. Sixty per cent of questions deal with government, law and citizen participation, and the remaining 40 per cent with culture, history and society. The design and management of both tests is under the competence of the Cervantes Institute, which centralizes by decree the execution or authorization of other centers to carry out the tests. At present there are many examination centers and collaborators of the Cervantes Institute, but in Basquedi only three are qualified to carry out these examinations: the University of Deusto, in Bilbao and in Donostia, with authorization to carry out both tests, and Fedele, in Donostia also, authorized for both tests. The University of the Basque Country in Vitoria is only authorized to do the exam related to the acquisition of Castilian. According to the Aliens Act – a law that we do not like, we do not like – public administrations will incorporate the objective of integration between migrants and receiving society in a cross-cutting manner with all public policies and services, promoting the participation of migrants, in the terms provided for in the Constitution, in the statutes of autonomy and in other laws, on conditions of equal treatment. That is why we are bringing this proposal to this Parliament today, so that people who want to have access to nationality can also do so in Euskadi. First, we propose that a public and free advisory service for migrants be launched through the Civil Registry with the aim of assisting in the implementation of nationality-related procedures. We know that since the closure of Heldu and the start-up of Aholku-Sarea there is a major deficiency in the attention to people in this area, because only with the information telephone is not enough. But we believe that this element is important enough to address it separately. We believe that, for this request, giving the Civil Registry the role of addressing nationality information, for starters, is a positive element. According to the website of the Cervantes Institute, the knowledge test has a cost of 85 euros, while the language test is subject to the discretion of each centre. Thus, we can see, for example, that at the University of Deusto the cost of carrying out this test is 124 euros. If you also want to take a course that will help you prepare the five-day exam, it costs 100 euros. Thus, access to one of the requirements for obtaining nationality by residence has essentially remained in the hands of private institutions, and at a cost that remains at the discretion of each centre. We do not question the initiative of the University of Deusto, Fedele or any other private center that wants to be a collaborating center of the Cervantes Institute. What we do question is that public institutions are not playing the central role that we believe they have in this matter, that we should not forget that it is the exercise of rights and the exercise of citizenship. The only Basque public center is only allowed to take one of the two exams, language, and on one of the three campuses, Araba, so it is not offered with homogeneity either in the three Basque territories. Moreover, it does not guarantee the right of equal access for residents, since this examination takes place only once a year, which we believe must also change. But it's not just that. In our opinion, and without the intention of infantilizing or doubting anyone's abilities, what is required in these tests includes complex contents, and as any evaluation test requires a prior preparation and a specific technique to be completed in time and form. There are people who, of course, are used to preparing such tests. And who wouldn't...? wouldn't it be fair to give them a chance so that from the public, from a point of departure accessible to all people, they could try to approve it? In our view, it is the duty of public administrations to implement the measures that are necessary to ensure these opportunities, to empower our neighbours and neighbours of foreign origin to accede to their rights in a process that, as we put forward at the last point of the proposal, needs a review, because as it is proposed, it seems unfair, arbitrary and out of place. Because in our opinion, access to nationality goes beyond feeling Basque or feeling Spanish. What really implies nationality in people's day-to-day lives is being part of this society, being able to exercise rights on equal terms, and not just an identity issue, or not just that I understand that we should focus today. In this regard, we welcome the agreement that we are going to reach, because on the one hand we are considering the possibility that permanent adult schools will conduct training courses, and, on the other hand, that the university, the UPV, will ensure the implementation of a uniform and sufficient public offer, in addition to being accessible, to carry out these examinations. Because, of course, it is essential to focus on finding a solution to the needs of those people, who are also our neighbours and neighbours. At the fourth point of our agreement, we also call on the Government of the State to ensure compliance with the rules in force with regard to accessibility established by the ministerial order itself. Because, while this rule makes it possible to exempt "persons who do not know how to read or write or who have learning difficulties" from the request, he suggests that this request should be submitted to the Ministry of Justice. But for today there are no clear forms, instructions or protocols to submit this application or certify, for example, illiteracy. When a consultation is carried out – and we have verified this by our own means – on how to access it, the specific answer in Euskadi is that we need to talk to the Cervantes Institute. And the Cervantes Institute sends you to the ministry. And the ministry tells you again to talk to the Cervantes Institute. With this we are balling people, without the regulations, which are to be complied with, being complied with, and without the accessibility of people being, through practice, something that can be exercised. In the fifth point of this agreement, we urge the State to review this procedure. We do it for a number of reasons. I understand that each of the members of this agreement will do so for a different one, and that is why we have put it in a more generic form. Ours, of course, is that we understand that this new process, this requirement to take examinations, are difficulties or issues that they seek – or at least seem to want to – to add obstacles to the normalization and access to the rights of people who have already been settled between us for, in most cases, ten years. We know that nationality is a legal link that has a dual dimension: on the one hand it is a fundamental right, and on the other hand it allows the enjoyment of other rights. And we understand that it can also be imposed, of course, on the fulfilment of obligations, but we cannot make access to rights become a yincan of obstacles, but we have to work to make it an accessible path. The second is that we understand that this procedure is not fair to assess the integration of a person into our society; an integration that is already demonstrated during the procedure, because they also force you to fulfill a period of residence, as I said before, of ten years for generality, or of five, two or one year for some specific groups. But it also means not having committed crimes, and it also means having had a job that has enabled you to renew residence permits, it also means having sufficient means of living. Nor do we understand this new procedure, because we believe that the difficulty and arbitrariness with which sociocultural integration is assessed cannot go through an examination. I have tried to do the test; I invite you to do so too. Of course, there are complex questions, and there can be difficulties not only because of ignorance, but also because this test, in our view, does not by far capture the social, cultural and linguistic diversity and plurality in which we live in the territories of the State. Finally, but in our view the most important thing, because this affects the most vulnerable people. Adopting this examination is only a problem for a very specific part of the migrant population living in the State. For which it has sufficient means of living, for which it has a medium-high socio-economic or socio-cultural level, which it has been able to study before getting to work, which it has come from other parts of the world but has had facilities, of course taking this test will not be a problem. But what about the weakest, or, rather, those who have had the worst opportunities? What about those who came on their feet and survive to sell, for example, in the top blanket, when the labour market expels them? What about the victims of trafficking, whose vital journeys are longer and more expensive, and whose integration goes at different times and times and different needs? What about those who went out like boys or girls and didn't learn to read well, but have been working since they arrived? What about those who had to choose between going to the EPA to study Spanish or cleaning portals? What about all of them? What about the ones they sleep on the street? They won't be able to access it, because they won't be able to take this exam. We understand that there are multiple profiles that can meet the rest of the requirements of access to nationality, profiles that are many men and many women examples of good-neighbourliness in this land. Men and women who are as much part of Euskadi as you are or as I am, and yet to those who are imposed a hardly surpassable test. For that we bring this proposal, for that we welcome this agreement. And yes, for that we also leave hairs in the catera, in relation to the initial intentions of our proposal. I say it before you come to me, because I think admitting these things is important. We would certainly have liked to have reached an agreement on maximums. We would have liked, of course, to have the direct capacity to eliminate this process. But we are also law-abiding people, and what we do have as a priority is to look for ways for people to have the exercise of rights more at hand, which sometimes seems almost an effort, when it should be something obvious to comply with. We believe that with this agreement, and certainly thanking the signatory groups, or those who are going to abstain, we are moving forward with a good agreement, which will improve the quality of life of many people and their ability to exercise this right. But we know and we are clear that this is a step, not the goal. We know and are clear that the way to pursue equal rights for all the neighbours and neighbours of Euskadi still has a long way to go. We still have a lot of work to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. The turn of the leaders, the representative of the EH Collect team, Mrs. Houseboy, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u113	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. Last week, on account of the 80th anniversary of the bombarding of Gernik and several other towns in the Basque Country, we several times expressed economic, political, cultural, and social emigrations caused by the community, that we dispersed around the world and that we continue to do it. And for the same reasons many persons and groups of people have come to the Basque Country, and we said that in Guernica we were willing to receive them and that they were welcome. This welcome, this appropriate reception, requires us to change the paradigm in the area of our many origins, migration, and multiplicity, and to produce a special point of view, to develop the indirect and integrated politics. Although we had not the necessary rights, we proposed to step on that road in the correction of the Basque People from the Union. The acquisition of Hands, in order not to follow the racial and Spanish politics of Madrid. We utter perfect dissent from the law of foreigners. It is a racialist law, torn by rights, which requires an examination of the degree of Spanishness. I've had a number of test tests, as Mrs. Guanche has remarked, and there have been questions I didn't know how to answer. I'm sure you'd have doubts either way. And I am also sure that many born here would not exceed the name CCSE. It is a law that is centralizing and Spanish, which does not account for the peculiarities of the Basque Country, and the language and dispositions of other peoples in the Spanish State. Spanish traffic, Spain science, uniformization, standardization... We're not gonna protect him and we won't accept him. Where are the properties, the multiplicity, and the rest? What value is preponderating through these exams? We believe that the development of a local service, the development of a service here developed in the Basque Country, in order to study its eucalyptic and to introduce it into the model of language-gulgation, should, among other things, facilitate and encourage the free choice. It was a legal consultant for the migrators, and what we required is that every person who arrives should be provided with the Sorty, or the Environments of Migration, for public services, for social services, health, education, assistance, and so on.... An integrated reception program that will guarantee the opportunity to get them. The law of alienity, and the modifications of many laws, such as the Law of Mozal, are violated by the fundamental rights and penetrated into rationalism, and this is what we demand aloud: Revoking this law. Revoking these laws. And indeed we are obstinate, and will be found obstinate in the time of the accusation of the laws which break their basic rights. We were asking for a physical service like the program, the restoration of a service which allows people to be together and to work together. In its time, in this Integration Service, the lawyer and professionals were directly hired, and though the present council-Network contains the entities of the third sector, it is a service which is subcontradicted, and, properly speaking, seeks a regularization of residence and nationalization papers. Now this is developed by the labor of many associations, and we know that besides doing all these works of Counsell, which are in the Net of Counsell, the congregation go much further: Friends, SOS racialism, CAR, Red Cross... Thank them, but service should be public. On the immense work which civil records have, we find it difficult to pay attention to immigrants and to make a settlement in the present circumstances. Of course we protect the improvements that can be done there. But we don't think there's a power to respond to the specialized demand of this collective. That's why, as Mrs. Guanche used to say, our attitude is to abstain from abscession. If it were to be in our power, then we reject and reject this investigation of which we would not be able to develop, because it is a discrinator, because it is to be paid, even according to the origin, because it requires an examination or two. Because some of them need ten years of support and others two years. Levels between the two and the third-rate population. I'd like to finish the initials with the ideas. A kind people, if we want to be a people, who make sure that this reception is made in the right way, for they can guarantee rights, but never cause boundaries and barriers. We have to break down physical fences or legal fences. We cannot deny that politics derived from the European Union and the State of Spain influences us, as SOSract says. But he's got a lot to say and to do for the immigrants. In matters which affect the daily life of immigrants who live in Basque Autonomy in Erria, the government affects: health, education, social politics, employment policies, security, culture, dissemination, etc., a long fight. In the same way the growth and activity of its beauties may affect the most beautiful of the European and European Unions. So let's try to be an example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists represent the group, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u115	We are discussing this afternoon the proposal that Elkarrekin Podemos has brought on the implementation of measures to facilitate the implementation of the citizenship procedure for immigrants in Euskadi. When we had to address this GNP from the group, beyond the justification that the proponents were making, we focused on the two points of the resolution that they were bringing to this plenary for vote. A first point calling for the launch of an advisory and training service on requirements and procedure for obtaining Spanish nationality by the migrant population. And a second point that urged the central government to reform the procedure of access to nationality. Certainly, the regulation on the acquisition of nationality is a competence that does not reside in this Parliament, but is resident, and we all know it, in the Congress of Deputies, where all the groups present here also have representation and where this initiative should have been taken equally. I have reviewed the Congressional diary: it has been taken by Podemos, and at the moment one of the People's Party is in the process of reforming the nationality process, but none in relation to what has been manifested here. And it is they who have to do so, because it was there, in that framework of the Congress of Deputies, where the last reform of the Civil Code on nationality was approved, certainly by amendment and without debate, incorporating a language examination, as has been said, and integration for immigrants who want to acquire Spanish nationality. There have always been periods of time or different periods of residence, but what was incorporated as new was this examination that from the Socialist Group we consider to be unfair, as long as it can prevent access to people who do not reach a certain cultural level, and which is certainly also arbitrary, because it does not value the true path of integration of people who are requesting it. We believe, the socialists believe that access to nationality should be seen as a corollary in the process of integration of foreign persons in Spain, since the acquisition of nationality entails the fullness of citizenship rights. That is why we share with the proponents – and that is why we have reached a compromise – the need for a reform of nationality by residence from consensus and agreement among all, which incorporates a reduction in the current maximum deadlines, the assessment of the integration path beyond the outcome of an examination, as a pre-eminent element in assessing the conditions or requirements for access. But this is a debate and parliamentary work that, as much as we have a vote result that supports it, will have to be carried out by our colleagues in the Congress of Deputies. That is why, at the end of our amendment, which has been linked by the spokesman for Podemos and which we have negotiated, we urge the Government of Spain to take action to review this procedure. On the other hand, the socialists believe and have defended in this rostrum not too long ago that the Civil Registry, before which the applications for nationality are registered face-to-face – let us not forget – must be a public service and free of charge, against what they advocate and seek other political options that also sit in this parliamentary arc. And we believe that it is there, from this public service of the Civil Registry, from where the work of informing and advising migrants on the requirements and procedures that are needed must continue. That is why this is the first demonstration and recognition that we believe is being made in the first of the points of the compromise amendment that we have agreed with the proposing group, with Elkarrekin Podemos, and with the Basque Nationalist Party. In the second and third term, taking into account the current need to pass the examinations of knowledge of the Spanish language and of constitutional and sociocultural knowledge, and being aware of the authorization that the Government has granted to the Cervantes Institute for the conduct of the examinations... It should also be borne in mind that the Cervantes Institute provides manuals free of charge, and I was surprised that you said that it was difficult for you to carry out the test. I did the test this week, too, without going to that manual, and it wasn't hard for me to get over it. They know you can, with fifteen answers, twenty-five, you get. Of the twenty-five I was able to respond quietly to the twenty-five. Some were very obvious issues, and others were logically knowledge about the organization of our State, which they want to belong to. So, with a 99-page manual exclusively, which we have in addition to free internet access, I don't think it's that difficult either and that we have to focus on that. What it has to be is that, from our point of view, it is not only that that which should or must give an integration process, or recognition. Because it is true that this examination, and this agenda and having some references, prevents those in charge of the registry, who at the time were the ones who said whether or not the migrant person was integrated... They carried out the questions they wanted without being subject to any consideration, and we found – and that is why they had to be dealt with judicially – many of the pilgrim issues that the registry officials consulted or asked whether or not to grant nationality to the people who did so. That is why we have introduced two points which the spokesman of Elkarrekin Podemos has explained very well. One for the Basque Government, in the context of these integration and coexistence policies which it has within its competence, is to explore the possibility of providing training for the preparation of these certificates as soon as they are maintained. And, on the other hand, to the Basque public university, to register the three historical territories as collaborating center, because this will extend the offer of courses and calls. Because, while it is true that they can now be held in all three territories, the public university only performs it on the Araba campus. We believe that an extension of this offer makes it easier to have a greater number of calls in nearby centres in each territory for migrants residing in our Community. The last two points – they have explained them – we have allocated them to the Government of Spain from here (it is better to let them know also there), so that tools and resources can be used to ensure an adequate understanding of the citizens both of the manuals – which I have already told them that they have them available – and of the examinations, to obtain the certificates of the knowledge that they require at this time in order to be able to become nationals, to obtain Spanish nationality. I do not think it is necessary for us to repeat here, and less so at this time, the reasons why we share this proposal, because on the need for the use of elements that guarantee accessibility to information, that this is sufficient, clear, manageable and easily understandable, using resources for this purpose as proposed, which is the easy-to-read format, we have had the opportunity to debate and to present a number of plenary sessions in the last two months. What I would like to conclude by thanking Mrs Guanche, the original proposer of this proposal, and Mr Ramírez, the PNV representative, for her willingness to reach an agreement. And you don't have any problems in which to reach agreements you're left hairs on the catera, and you don't have to have any complexity in doing so. Others will know why they did not want to enter into this agreement, which, as I said this morning in my first speech, is what we must demand from those who are dedicated to the subject of the management of the public thing. Because, we like more or less a government, what we have to do is comply with our obligation to make proposals and reach agreements that move into the lives of citizens. And if there we have to leave maximalist positions, partisans of each of us, in order to reach an agreement that facilitates the work of this collective, then welcome is the agreement without complexes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Mr. Ramíz-Ecudero is your word. Mr. FRAMEUR-ESCURO, ISUSI: Mr. President, thank you. Immmigrations always encourages private public meetings, and we think it's not necessary to advise immigrants to produce public services. We welcome the agreement that we have had, and I will simply spell out two statements or two requests that were present in the original PNL of Podemos. You, Mrs Guanche, have passed very quickly and almost without emphasising the network of the Basque Government (Aholku-Sarea), which is from the Department of Employment and Social Policy, to inform and advise the immigrant population on all kinds of matters. And I am going to stop a little bit, because I believe that your statement, your first point in the original GNP, in which I asked the Basque Government to create a new public service to advise, seems to me not to be correct. You are always denouncing the alleged duplicities of the Administration, and I believe that here you are incurring one of them. So I've told you before: you've gone way over this service, and I'll just remind you with data so we all know what we're talking about. We are talking about a service, as I said at first in Basque, which involves public-private collaboration. The Basque Government had never thought about immigration, had never believed that it had to do so simply from the public sector, and had always relied on the private sector. But in the private sector... not in the private sector of private companies, but in NGOs and third sector entities. And the collaboration of this network, of this service of the Basque Government, of Employment, has in Araba with the Red Cross and with CEAR; in Bizkaia with the Red Cross, with ISCED, with Kosmopolis and with Caritas, and in Gipuzkoa with the Red Cross, with Adiskidetuak and with SOS Arrazakeria. That is to say, there are nine third-sector entities operating throughout the territory and engaged not only in the legal service, which is also included, because there is an agreement, as we all know, with the bar associations, but also in providing general information, advice, in any kind of problem, to immigrants. Last year 7,935 immigrant consultations were attended in this service. I don't know, because it doesn't specify so much, how many were in relation to this exam, but there were about 8,000 immigrants who were perfectly well attended to by this service. The consultations that Biltzen attended were also 1,610, and then the service made a number of briefings, sessions, with 27,690 people. I mean, from the information point of view, what an immigrant has to do to get the exam, I think the Basque Government has the means. Another thing is what has to be reported. As we all know, the Cervantes has it all online on the website, so until you pay the exam fee you have to do it online. In other words, the immigrant can be given the online address of Cervantes and can be advised, but much more not because there is nothing tangible. Cervantes only has an online presence in Euskadi. This service too, so that we can see that the collaboration that I have spoken about now, of the entities of the third sector, is obviously not free et amore, so it has a budget from the Basque Government. That is, the Basque Government should not create a new service, because it is already paying a significant amount in this concept. For example, Basque Red Cross, 221,000 euros per year; CEAR-Euskadi, 20,000 euros per year; Kosmopolis, 30,000 euros per year; ISCED, 57,000 euros per year; Bilbao Caritas, 27,000 euros; Adiskidetuak, 57,000 euros; and SOS Arrazakeria Gipuzkoa, 25,000 euros. In other words, the Basque Government collaborates with a budget close to €500,000 every year to ensure that these entities also cooperate. And I think that's okay, that is, I think we'll all be a lot quieter knowing that not only is there a public office of the Basque Government, but we also have the Red Cross, Caritas, CEAR-Euskadi..., which are obviously also on the front line and are also for that, to report how an immigrant can obtain nationality. That was the first statement I disagreed with, and I wanted to correct it with affection. And the second is also another in which you said something like that that the Basque Government was asked for gratuitousness in the workshops. I think there's a shape defect here on your part. That is, the gratuity will have to give it the one that covers, and we all know that the one that charges these courses is the Cervantes, which then gives a third of the registration to the collaborating entities. I mean, I don't see the Basque government subsidizing any immigrant so that the immigrant pays the Cervantes 300 euros and the Cervantes money stays. That is to say, we would have to urge – so I say the lack of form – Cervantes to this gratuity, or to make a kind of subsidy to the exam fees, rather than to do so with the Basque Government. The Basque Government, as we all know, has nothing to do with this examination, which is obviously only completely centralized by the Cervantes. On the subject of exams as well, I will read fifteen lines which are somewhat the summary made by the University of Deusto, which I believe is, more or less, the one that examines the most, so that we also see that the problems, rather than information, are about what mechanism the Cervantes has put in place for these exams. Deusto says that "the registration and payment of both exams is carried out exclusively online" – he said earlier – "which poses a real difficulty. Many candidates do not have a credit card to make the payment, they are lost on the web when making the registration due to lack of custom, or because they do not have a computer or internet. "Communication with candidates is done by e-mail. Candidates do not receive any protection from their registration on paper, but in electronic format. Such a safeguard is essential for admission to the examination. This creates difficulties for many of the candidates, who do not have a mail account. "In the courts of the Basque Country, applicants of Spanish nationality are referred to the examining centre for the necessary information. They are not provided with such information" (it will also have to be corrected). And finally, "candidates often belong to economically and socially disadvantaged groups. They often move from other autonomous communities to our headquarters with the deadlines for submitting their documentation, in order to carry out the necessary procedures." However, last year's summary is that they presented for the first exam, that of geographical and historical knowledge, in Euskadi 2,500 people, and for the DELE, which is that of the Spanish language, they presented more than 500 immigrants for the exams. In short, I believe that there is no need to create a new public service. I think it is completely created, I think it is completely well covered by the entities of the third sector, and also by the Basque Government. And what I said before: if we ask for gratuitousness, that we are all free to ask it, then we have to ask the Cervantes, not ask the Basque Government, which obviously has no relationship in this.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u117	Thank you, Mr. Ramírez-Escudero. It's the crew's turn that hasn't run any corrections, the Euskal Potion Group's turn. Mr Ruiz de Abulo has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u118	Thank you, Madam President. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to you all. When this initiative of Elkarrekin came to the People's Group We can decide not to amend it, because the two fundamental points..., after a justification of reasons in which there was a veiled criticism of the system of acquisition of nationality, we find ourselves with two points in which in the first one we are asked to create a new public service dependent on the Basque Government to give a service that is already being provided, and on the other hand to modify the system of acquisition of nationality. That is, to amend the Aliens Act, the regulation of the Civil Registry, and even who knows if even the Constitution, to see who can effectively access Spanish nationality. We therefore decide not to amend it, simply because, on the basis of efficiency and effectiveness, we understand that it is not necessary to create a new public service and to pay for it from the public coffers, which enough services have to support with the budgets this Government. I say that it is creating a new one on what already exists because it is that the information, specifically to which you refer in the initiative, the information on what are the requirements and what are the steps to take, that is already offered from the Civil Registry without any problem, and is also offered from the Peripheral Administration of the State through foreign delegations. Then foreign citizens who want to acquire nationality know perfectly well where they have to go and get that information and advice. But it is also, as Mr Ramírez has rightly said, that the Basque Government has a system of support, assistance and guidance for foreigners, where all the requirements are also made available and the circumstances in which they must be fulfilled in order to acquire nationality. I must tell you, Mrs Guanche, that your desire to improve the speech of this House is fantastic. He puts us all in a very difficult weaver. You propose an initiative, ask one thing, and then we end up talking about another completely different. I mean, we talked about adult schools, about the UPV, about the reality of the Civil Registry... issues that you hadn't told us at all in your initiative at first. That generates in those of us who need to discuss with you an improbable work of preparing thousands of arguments on where the matter is going to come from. And, from the moment I raise a question to the final agreement that I come to, which has nothing to do with the question that I have raised, it makes it quite difficult for us to defend the positions and positions of the party in these matters. I commend you for the pleasure of improving the House's oratory, but please don't be so demanding with all of us, let alone at this hour. You've finally come to tell us here... , and we must interpret the initiative he has taken, far from the agreement, with his speech. What you don't like is the system there is to acquire nationality. Holy shit! Well, tell us clearly! He has also come to tell us that what he doesn't like are the exams that have to be passed. Exams do not exist since the reform of the regulations of the Civil Registry of 2015, reviews have always been! Language exams have always been, and exams of knowledge of how exactly, those foreigners who came to our country and wanted to choose to meet the requirements of Spanish nationality, were integrated. What was going on? That before there were as many examinations as criteria had those responsible for each of the civil registrations. The new model, that of 2015, is to improve the system, and it makes an objective system, that everyone passes similar tests on similar subjects. And I think that is sincerely very positive, Mrs Guanche. To leave in the hands of the interpretation of an indeterminate legal concept, such as integration into the labour market, integration into society, integration into the family environment, integration into our legislation, in our culture, in our language..., to leave that degree of integration in the hands of so many examiners as those responsible for civil registrations we do have, but it created or generated – and so has the case law – very, very large criteria of interpretation. Having an objective criterion, a subject to be examined, is not bad. After all, nationality is a legal link between the citizen and the State from which he or she wishes to acquire that nationality, logically. Because we all have the right to have a nationality, but that doesn't mean we can choose the one we want. It will be that state that legislates, within its own system, the requirements that each must meet in order to obtain that nationality. That legal link generates rights and duties, and I believe it is important that those who acquire Spanish nationality be aware of what are not only the rights but also the obligations they acquire. Clearly, rights are far more than one's obligations. It must not be as bad as some say, because thousands of files are processed more to acquire nationality than those processed to renounce nationality. Then such a bad thing must not be to possess Spanish nationality. With Spanish criteria, as Mrs Etxebarrieta said. Man, may the law governing what are the requirements for obtaining Spanish nationality have Spanishizing criteria, are you surprised? It reassures me, frankly. In short, something else would be bad, worrying, and then I would be with Mrs Guanche to go to the Congress of Deputies and ask for a regulatory change, because something is being done wrong. And whoever doesn't want to get Spanish nationality, don't ask. It's a right, but it's not an obligation for anyone. Who comes here and wants to get it, asks it, and if it meets the requirements it is given. And who comes here and has it, because he has acquired it before or has it by birth, and does not want it, the law also tells him what he has to do to renounce it. And surprisingly, so many who deny it, then at the time of truth do not renounce it. But going back to the subject of examinations, Mrs Guanche, I think the objective criteria are better. You said this is a step. If the next steps you want to take are to improve those objective criteria when carrying out the tests, or, as is well reflected in the agreement that we are going to approve between virtually the whole of the House, to improve the training or preparation of those who want to access and present those tests, then we will be able to accompany you. If the next step is to eliminate the examinations, return to the previous criterion that each Civil Registry should identify the subjects on which these foreigners should be examined, or modify the requirements that there is no need for permanent legal residence for one, two, five or ten years, there will not find us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u119	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Passing on the answers, together, Podemos, Mrs. Guanche, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u120	Well, very quickly. The goal we had when we made this proposal, and I'm sorry, Mr. Ruiz de Arbulo, if I make you change a lot (we're all learning)... I think the motions system is much worse and more stressful than my propositions. We have work to do in the presentation of the Parliamentary Statute Commission. The objective of bringing this proposal was that people who today, yes or yes, have to take these examinations to gain access to nationality can do so in the most secure and accessible way, and I believe that, in this agreement, we take a step forward and we have fulfilled it. You see, or you glimpsed, a rejection of the exams, I say. I think I said this openly in the initial speech, but, if not, in case I confirm myself: I reject the examination procedure. I agree with what several people have said in this atrium, that integration goes beyond a concrete knowledge that can be demonstrated through an examination. Ninety-nine pages, it is true, Mrs Castelo, that it is not too much, and it is true that you, being a lawyer, of course it would be ugly if you did not answer them. But I, who have worked with foreign people who are on the way to the process of nationality, can tell all of you, if you do not have it clear, that accessing these ninety-nine pages, getting this knowledge and being able to answer some questions in certain times is nothing simple for as many people as it can be for so many others. And I said at first that, running away from paternalism or wanting to think that people can't, what I think is that people in life have one chance or another. It is clear that those who are in this House, or who carry out certain types of work, have more experience, which has allowed them to do this in a simpler way and have more opportunities to pass this examination, and there are others who have had less. So when we design procedures from the public administration, we have to keep in mind that everyone can access, the ones we've had more and the ones they've had less. In that sense... And a point, Mr. Ramírez-Escudero, in relation to what you have said about Aholku-Sarea. I went over it, I don't know if I haven't explained it very well, because I said that I think it is a matter of close enough to address it at a separate point. I, as a social worker who drifted people to Heldu and who have drifted many people to Aholku-Sarea, say without any modesty that the service has become precarious. Heldu worked better, worked much better, because personal interviews always work better. Because you will not forget that Aholku-Sarea has all these agreements with all these entities, but the previous step to access is always a call to a 900 to try to resolve the process by phone, which almost never happens, and what ends up happening is that people go to the entities they have referenced, that de facto they have referenced and that they are providing these services, and go ahead that they are compañeras and compañeras who carry out a magnificent job. I mean magnificent. But I think that in order to save us 500,000 euros in budget we could return to a service from you to you, which worked excellently and that I believe that all the entities that have to do with the work with migrants, even many of those that provide Aholku-Sarea services, have called for the return to a service like this. With regard to the defects in form, as to who we ask for the gratuity, I assume that I may have made a mistake. I am not an expert on this, as I have already repeated on previous occasions. And the intention, I repeat, was for the Basque Government to guarantee the provision of a public service free of charge. Talking to you during the negotiation has already informed me that the person to be asked was specifically at the UPV, and so we have corrected, adding that the permanent adult schools, which are elements with a lot of travel and a lot of ability to do this, and have been demonstrating it over the years, can complement this with training. I also said that I did not question the intentions or goodwill of the University of Deusto, or of anyone (I believe it is Fedele the name of the other Gipuzcoan delegation that collaborates with the Cervantes Institute). What I question is that there is no offer directly from the public. Of course I question that the Cervantes Institute covers for this and can't do it for free, but then we're already in another area of claims. And, Mr. Ruiz de Arbulo, one last thing. I agree that arbitrary criteria are not the way to recover, of course not. I've been on nationality exams, and I've seen the interviews that were held in the past. I think we could hardly find ourselves on the way, because my bet, I say personally, and I think that Elkarrekin's we can generally, would be to eliminate these tests, because, as we have said before, they do not seem fair to us. But I do not want to leave this rostrum without making it clear that the importance of the procedures of nationality, as I said during my initial speech, has nothing to do with the identity or the feeling of each one. It has to do with that living immersed in the alien system is to lose your life by making papers, is to be constantly scared. Because you're going to ask the Civil Registry and what they tell you you don't understand, because you don't have a computer and you can't register on the Internet, because you don't know how to do it, because you don't have a credit card... Because a lot of things can happen to you, which is supposed to be the procedures that make life easier for people to solve, and sometimes what they do is put stones on the road. Of course I bet on a system in which access to rights (linked or not to nationality, that we can discuss long and stretched out) does not simply simplify and leave in the hands of a concrete examination the ability or inability of people to be a full citizen in this community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Madam Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u122	Yes, thank you. In fact, Mrs. Guanche has expressed quite a few ideas I wanted to throw away. On the one hand, this government had the same direction as the Immmigration, and from it came the same program in which it was requested, and this is one of the things we proposed, and the demand of those associations which are working at the present day, is also the demand of their return to the system, where they see bounds, without any trace of it, the terrible work of this people, and we never doubt, not of the combination, nor of the technique, but of those who are to be found in civil record, but of which we know that there are great limitations, and that are very difficult to give attention to strangers at the time. And this also [is] one of the things which the congregations of the people who labor with the stranger have told us. And that's why I wanted to talk about these two things. Eta, well, of course we're not gonna be... By "spanning" what he also meant was that the different identities, nations, ways of being or societies that could be found in Spain, in the Spanish state were not taken into account. And it also seemed to me, of course, that the people who ask for it with that identity need... well, we're not going to get in there. But, as Mrs Guanche commented, the majority or many people who ask do so because of the problems that create them living in a state that has the Aliens Act that they currently have, the difficulties that it entails living without Spanish nationality. And I'm going to talk about a specific case, which my mother, if she listens to me, will crush me, but she is French and has never wanted to have Spanish nationality, because she felt French and did not want to have nationality. And all the problems that the Aliens Act has caused him (not being able to vote, not being able to participate in different ways, etc.), so we have lived it at home. And it seems to me that taking into account the..., bai, mugak, zein muga ezartzen dituen lege honek garrantzitsuak direla, éta kontuan hartu behar ditugula pertsonek lege honen eragina dutenean, horri aurre egitek azterketa éta nationalate-eskaera horretara jotzen dutela, kendu gabe geora beste askok egin dezaketela horrela nahi dutelako. The bath you had azpimarratu behar de la Atzerritatasun Legeak exitzen dituen Mugak ikaragarriak say the momentu Honetan, eta argi dago beaste eztabaida bat izango de la nationality izaterekin edo izaterekin nolako eskubidetara, betebeharretara, parte-hartze motatara, jo ahalko dugun. I just wanted to end up with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Exterteeta. Mrs. Castelo, your word is Basque Socialists.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u124	It's funny, but sometimes when we come to a rostrum we exaggerate the situation a little bit, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo. Man, I already know that between the original proposal and the transactional one there is a certain difference, but it is also true that you have not found it by surprise here today in the morning, because we have also been talking to you throughout this procedure. It is true that, well, it is not easy to negotiate when you want to change certain things and when there are different sensitivities to introduce within a single proposal, but it is false that we did not know where it was going, a little with regard to the situation we have at the moment with the migrant population, the Aliens Act and the different positions we have between different parties or different parliamentary groups. When I was saying, "When you want to change the objective criteria," and I don't know what and all... man, you too, hey! They have just registered, I believe, on 17 March this year, a proposal for a law in the Congress of Deputies to "improve" – and they have titled it – the procedure for acquiring nationality and to equate our procedure with those of the environment. And I will tell you that in those of the environment the possibility is opened, beyond the topic of examinations, of being able to test this process of integration with other formulas as well. What we are saying is that he knows perfectly well that the Socialist Party rejects the Aliens Act. We don't share that vision you have. I did not come here today to talk about the Aliens Act, but about a specific procedure, that of nationality. And it's true, about nationality, people opt for it, they don't have to. Then, if someone wants to stay with a French nationality, then it will have to be with the conditions that are put in that situation. If you want to opt in full rights, as we have the rest of the people who are nationals of this country, then, logically, we have no limitations or the Aliens Act applies to us. And it is true that of the Aliens Act we would have to debate, but it is not the scope in this Parliament – and I do not want to repeat it any more – but in the Congress of Deputies, that we all have representatives there and it is who, in addition to speaking, can modify it. What I want to make clear here today is that the agreement (which is what is important) that we have reached is that it should be informed and offered advice in the Civil Registry. Because many of the migrants arrive at the Civil Registry because they know that this is where their file is processed, and there is room for improvement. There is room for improvement, in the information given to them and in the coordination of the different systems, services or organizations working for this group to inform them not only of these issues, but also of others. I think there is room for improvement, and it is important for this Parliament to say that there is and that we are also going to offer this information service, and that we are going to put in place the appropriate means so that we can help with these procedures. And the other thing we were saying is that we can try to make it easier for this group to prepare such examinations, as long as they have to be and are an option, a requirement, a condition for obtaining nationality; that more centres are available, because more centres are more opportunities and closer, and that means less cost; that information is accessible, and that is what we all agree on, and that we review the current legislation. Logically, each one will then defend where he has to defend it, which is in the Congress of Deputies, in what sense he wants to modify it. The People's Party on its initiative sees in what way it wants to do it, the Socialist Party on its electoral programme says in what way it wants to go, Elkarrekin Podemos, EH Bildu and the Basque Nationalist Party... But what is important here, from my point of view, is to achieve, among the groups that belong to this parliamentary arc, agreements that can somehow be moved to this collective, and that we can facilitate, even if it is a small step (which can then be given another, and then another, but always moving forward), issues that will make their situation easier for them. Because that's what they chose us for, and that's what we have to strive for.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Mr. Ramíz-Ecudero won't speak... So Euscal Popular, Mr Ruiz de Arboulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u126	Thank you, President. Mrs Etxebarrieta, I cannot vote either in the French elections next Sunday or in the autumn elections in Germany. That is, every national has the right to vote in the legislative elections and elections of the governing bodies of his own country. And everyone is very free to opt for nationality when they meet the requirements. Mrs Guanche, the above criteria were not arbitrary. Arbitraries are when the law is jumped, depending on the whim or the will of the criterion. What we now have are more homogeneous criteria than what existed before. And they're so much better. And that is why this reform that has been put forward in the Congress of Deputies. Because we cannot confuse citizens fully with nationals. It's not the same. Full citizens are those who have rights and duties within our legal system, which does not mean that they have Spanish nationality, because they may have Community or non-Community nationalities, and they continue to be full citizens in our country, with many rights and fewer obligations. In acquiring nationality, more obligations are now likely to be acquired than the rights they already had previously. But precisely because they are citizens of the European Union, it is the European Union that has somehow to homogenize the systems of acquiring nationality. Because they can acquire Spanish nationality, act followed to live in Denmark or go to live (I was going to say to Britain; I think no longer) to France, and to have that European citizenship with everything it entails. That is why the system needs to be strengthened, homogenized and objective. Therefore, it is good that there are tests. The last point of the agreement, which we have already told you before we will support, says that those who want to have equal access to nationality. Equality for equals. What we cannot do is a table and pretend that all foreigners who are here can access nationality under the same conditions. It is not the same to access having legal residence for two or ten years, depending on the country from which you come, whether you are an adult or a minor, whether you know how to read and write or not...; which are issues provided for by the current legislation, and therefore rate different systems to be able to access nationality or simply to be from one country or another. The conditions under which an Ecuadorian citizen comes here are not the same as those of a Thai citizen. We have a history, and we have to respect our culture and history, and above all the international agreements we have signed with other countries. Therefore, modify the system to move forward in homogenising the criteria, yes, and treat those that are equal, but unequal to those that are not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u127	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for it. Together, Podemos, Euskal Socialists, and Eubertarians have signed the intermediate corrections which have been signed by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters of 56; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 17.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u128	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. Number of points in theme list: "The other proposal, as the Parlamentarian Society made, was to release the political prisoners of the Bolton Republic of Venezuela. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Representative of the American Basque Groups, Mr. Barrio, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u129	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, counselor. Well, we are in the debate, in the defense of a non-law proposal that is of solidarity. Many times in this House, in this Parliament, we are faced with the analysis of proposals for pronouncement on unknown, distant realities, with minimal political, historical and human ties, but today we are talking about something we know. In this very House many will also be relations with Venezuela and its people, and therefore the concern about the situation is especially close, it is especially emotional we could say. Above all, as we are going to do, we are talking about the defence of human rights, democracy and freedoms. The truth is that little has to be explained; everyone knows what is happening in Venezuela. Venezuelans and Venezuelans are having a really bad time, and Maduro's dictatorship every day has symptoms of more hostility to democracy, of more distance with its people, with its nationals, of more mocking the international requirements to end repression, and of more hatred towards those who do not think like those who currently hold the government. In other words, hostility, distance, mockery and hatred constitute today the definition of an institutional attitude that increasingly outrages the world and the defenders of human rights and civil liberties. All that President Maduro can think of doing are harmful gestures, they are absurd gestures, they are illegal gestures, they are crazy gestures. And it is the analysis of what is happening in your country, and not anything else (no comparison or comparison), which makes us look at how that country is doing, how Venezuela is doing, and of course protesting how it is evolving into the abyss and chaos. We put forward this non-law proposal a little more than a month and a half ago, and since then many things have happened, and all bad. All the things that have happened since the month and a half in which we present this non-law proposal, with an alarming situation, have all been situations of democratic regression and violation of human rights: deaths of demonstrators every day, permanent and constant repression, paramilitaries, constitutional dissolution, running of the opposition. That is, a month and a half more agony of a great country with which, I say again, the Basques – many of us – have great family, historical, economic, emotional ties. That is why the issue is not peaceful in Venezuela. This issue is not peaceful in Venezuela today. But yes, ladies and gentlemen, it should be in this House in relation to the analysis and the response to the situation in that brother country. In this respect, I think it is clear from the compromise amendment that we have signed by the proposed group (we), the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group in relation to the text that has been put to the vote in this House. And I also thank Mr Aguirre for his good manners in relation to the contribution and finalization of the text. And of course respect for human rights, the separation and independence of the powers of the State, freedom of the press, freedom of opinion, respect for the will of citizens expressed in the ballot boxes... those are the essential values of democracy. None of them are currently in force in Venezuela. The progressive totalitarian drift of the Government has been reducing each of these essential principles of democracy, leading Venezuelans and Venezuelans to the unbearable situation they are living in today. In Venezuela there are more than one hundred and twenty political prisoners, the main political leaders are imprisoned or have been disqualified, the independent media closed by government decision; more than six hundred cases of torture have been reported to the International Criminal Court; the Government of Venezuela has occupied all the powers of the State, and they are used to nullify the National Assembly elected by the citizens, so that the President dictates laws and legislative rules without any parliamentary control. To this unprecedented political crisis in no democracy is added a terrible social crisis, which casts figures from a country at war: more than 2 million Venezuelans have had to flee the country, the violence has increased to place Venezuela as the second country in the world with the highest number of homicides (almost 30,000 in 2016 alone). The occupation and usurpation of private property, agricultural estates, industries or commercial establishments that the Government has promoted for years have ended up destroying the productive fabric of the country, causing the depletion of daily food and consumer goods. Getting meat, flour, milk, oil, fish, or simply toilet paper or soap, is every day much harder. This painful situation gets even worse when it comes to getting medicines: hospitals do not have minimally indispensable surgical material, pharmacies do not have any medicines for everyday use. The humanitarian crisis is of such magnitude that the main international organizations have been denouncing the gravity of the situation for years and warning of the dramatic consequences that are happening in that country, in Venezuela. Different agencies and institutions, personalities of international prominence, including the Vatican itself, have fostered a dialogue between the Government and the opposition in order to find a way out of the tragedy that the country is experiencing. So far, dialogue has not worked, political prisoners have not been freed, electoral commitments have not been made, nor has there been any evidence to suggest a solution. On the contrary, the events that have taken place in recent days have shown greater hardening and repression by the Government, including the self-inflicted coup d'état (which are already several, by the way) and the dismantling of the constitutional system. Well, with these keys I think there's little more to say. We all know it, we all know it, we've seen it, we've been transmitted, and we see it often. That is why we have tabled a simple and clear compromise amendment in relation to the original proposal, and in that regard we say a number of questions: That the Basque Parliament demand from the Government of Venezuela the immediate release of all political prisoners, including that of Yon Goicoechea, of Basque origin, in order to facilitate a true inclusive and effective dialogue that allows reconciliation between Venezuelans. Something that should be in the drawer and to what I suppose no one will object in this House. Point number 2 is that he conveys his condolences to the relatives of the deceased in the demonstrations and asks to investigate in depth those deaths (we are seeing them, we are seeing how in each demonstration there are many injured and killed, of course, by the action of repression). The Government of Venezuela is requested to restore all powers detracted from the National Assembly and to be attributed by the Constitution, as well as full and immediate respect for the electoral calendars provided for in the Constitution and its laws. Another obviousness. It requests the Government of Venezuela to allow international humanitarian agencies of the United Nations system and regional organizations to visit the country to collaborate with the authorities, to determine the scope of the humanitarian crisis and to establish the necessary means to reverse the lack of essential medicines and food. We have recently heard the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights speak about this situation, which prevents this organization from working effectively in the humanitarian crisis and doing so in that country. As a fifth point, the European Council is also called upon to maintain a common position of the European Union on Venezuela, designing and planning concerted actions to ensure respect for human rights, the restoration of real democracy and the country's serious humanitarian crisis. As a sixth point, support for the dialogue and negotiation table between the Government of Venezuela and the opposition, we have put under the auspices of the Vatican, by Unasur, as guides for the restoration of the democratic order (we know that these initiatives are sometimes also questioned or in debate, but they are there as reference elements), and ask the OAS for its determined intervention to enable the return of opposition to that table. We now know that Venezuela also wants to enter into a political, diplomatic war with the OAS, something truly demented and counterproductive, which once again reveals the talent of that very Government. As a seventh point – something that could of course not be missed and that has to be done – is the denunciation of President Maduro's recent move to convene a constituent assembly, a decision that seeks once again to avoid the elections, to avoid democracy and the expression of that democratic vote of the citizens of Venezuela. Do not tell me that it is not a question of minimums that we are raising in relation to human rights, in relation to democracy, in relation to defending electoral processes, in relation to overcoming the humanitarian crisis, and in relation to defending the citizens of Venezuela. They are minimal questions to avoid, of course, agony, to avoid the abyss, to avoid chaos, I repeat, in a brotherly country, with which the Basques have so many and so intimate links. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u130	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Houseowner, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u131	Good afternoon, again. It is not the first time that we have this Chamber of Venezuela. And it's not the first time we've been trying to cover up our present local problems that some of us want to look at Venezuela. We do not deny that the present state is not disturbing, but not in the terms proposed here. Why, Venezuela? Why look there? What does Venezuela do specially for some serious ones? What makes it do this in the plune, for example, and not make any other than legal in Turkey? What does it do, between different international tough situations, to choose Venezuela? There are more than 1,000 political prisoners in Palestine who are hungry for the watering of the human rights which the government of Israel inspires. The law against the Israeli government that arrests and tortures children, when? Here the terms which are planned in middle-way and in conferences do not go in the direction which a responsible country ought to do. What we have in Venezuela is the negotiation table to calm the tension situation, yes. What we know from this point of view is, above all, an invitation to sit down again on the side that rose from it, to help us with it. In the face of political conflict, the Basque Country will be a default for negotiation, dialogue, and agreement. Instead of throwing more wood into the fire of Dago, soliciting the immediate freedom of political prisoners, asking the government of Venezuela to visit the international operators and the country, as if they had no chance of re-establishing a real democracy... What's the real democracy? Some kind of pattern? Call what I don't like anti-democratic, and that's what we plan for the solution of the conflict? You obviously don't like Nicholás Maduro. This may be, and one's tastes are respectable, but what we can't forget is that he is the President of a democratic choice, and that we respect the people, and respect the people. And we want to force the table once more for the democratic union that the people took with illusion. We insist that the four tables between the government and the opposition of the Basque People are once more started from the Union, and in front of the breach, Louis Almagrok, the president of the American State Organization, appears to us to be a disturbing neutrality and activity. So since the Basque People are gathered together, as is evident, we do not protect the texts of the groups which have come to be of any use; we respect the decisions of the Venezuelan people, and in the solution of the conflict we wish to encourage them to step in that direction. We express our solidarity with the citizens of Venezuela and our concern about the economic, social and political situation in the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, and we call on the Government of Maduro and the Venezuelan opposition, the Bureau of Democratic Unity, to return to the dialogue table, sponsored by the Vatican and regional authorities, and to resume the agenda, as the only way to advance together in the serious Venezuelan crisis. We reject, without exception, any attempt to destabilize the external or internal order in Venezuela. We endorse the words of former Colombian President and Secretary General of Unasur, Ernesto Samper, noting that "it is not the path of unilateralism, confrontation and media polarization that will get Venezuela to move forward", and that "only the Venezuelan people must find the ways to get out of this crossroads without risking peace or democracy". Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all and all. It is true – it has been said here – that the Venezuelan people are suffering from an unmatched shortage in the country's history. There is an increasingly intense humanitarian crisis, suffered by the majority of Venezuelans and Venezuelans. Violence is increasing, and there is a daily increase in the number of victims of such violence. We and we share that there is a precarious democratic order, which is overwhelmed right now by a non-independent judicial system, and there is a deficient guarantee of political pluralism, which ultimately questions its system of parties and social communication. We share it, and we do not settle for this situation of democratic and humanitarian emergency of the people of Venezuela. From the Socialist Group we want to express solidarity, which has already been made by the various speakers in the rostrum, with one and another speech, and our alarm about what is happening. And it is true that there is a situation of violence, and it is true that there is a situation of democratic precariousness and violation of human rights. You don't have to repeat it. Violence continues on the streets, prison overcrowding, survivors of gender-based violence find obstacles to access to justice, campaigns of discredit, persecution and discrimination against journalists, human rights defenders, incarceration of critical persons with the Government and members of the political opposition, excessive use of force by police and security forces, including forced labour... There is a new system of compulsory temporary work, because people employed in the public and private sectors are forced to transfer, at times, to food production, and that is forced labour. And this I do not say, nor does any international Jewish-masonic conspiracy say. Amnesty International's 2016-2017 report on the situation in Venezuela says so. That, like I say that, I will say that Venezuela is not the whole, nor is everything Venezuela, when it comes to positioning itself in the face of the sufferings of peoples, anti-democratic regimes and human rights violations. I share with Mrs Etxebarrieta that there are many more countries in which this is happening, and so she has stated. No one remembers Turkey, Palestine, Russia, Chechnya, and an infinity, which is that it would perhaps exhaust the ten minutes to say in which countries there are violations of fundamental rights, public freedoms, independent justice and the guarantee of political pluralism. And I will say to us that we are concerned and occupied by Venezuela, as we are concerned and concerned by Saudi Arabia. And we have no position against our position, but we understand that human rights, attention to human rights, would require much broader and more sincere treatment by political groups. Of all, I'm not going to talk about each other. But, having said that, I share everything that has been said and is set out in the compromise amendment, because we cannot agree with decisions that we believe are arbitrary and undemocratic. And that is why we really ask the Venezuelan Government and its President to cease these proposals and return to the table of dialogue he too, with appropriate conditions for the opposition, in which these decisions..., among them, that of the convocation of the constituent assembly that does not respect the free, secret and universal vote, and the full recovery of the competences of the National Assembly. We are concerned about that, but we are also concerned that the Supreme Court has annulled a statement by the National Assembly itself against the rights of gay, lesbian, transgender people... We are concerned about all violations of rights in Venezuela. Therefore, I will say that I am not going to put any more adjectives to what is happening in Venezuela and to the concern. All you will allow me to do is to focus, within the compromise amendment, on that call for dialogue, both to the Venezuelan Government and its President and to the opposition groups. But I will say this, because that mission of dialogue sponsored by the Vatican and Unasur seems to us to be a way, from reconciliation and mutual respect, that can achieve the full restoration, with all guarantees, of the democratic order. As a socialist I feel identified with the work of former presidents José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, Fernández and Torrijos, or with what the Catholic Church and Pope Francis are doing. How can I not agree with his work and the principles that have inspired this work and this bet on the recomposition of the democratic order in Venezuela! The Basque and Basque socialists feel represented with this task of solidarity and cooperation, of agreement and reconciliation, which they try to achieve, and with their demand for dialogue and respect. First, to address conflicts and disputes between the institutional powers in Venezuela; secondly, to address reconciliation, which is an indispensable task; and thirdly, to achieve the pacification of political dialogue in Venezuela. José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero will be all those bad things that underline from Mr Bollain to Mr Damborenea, passing through many members of this House, but I cannot be more proud to have shared and to share his full commitment to dialogue and the word. Politics always begins in the word, words form ideas, and every word can be a channel of approach or a path of rejection. I'll stick to what President Zapatero is after. Dear José Luis, I share this: "There is no policy in violence, in fanaticism, in non-democracy, in resentment; there is policy in generosity, in recognition, in respect". Those are my convictions, they're our convictions. According to top down, and left, always to the left, with José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero. Peace is the task, here and in Venezuela. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr Aguire, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u135	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Today, again, we're about to talk about Venezuela, and I think I've been able to talk to Venezuela three times in the last three years. And unfortunately, things get worse and worse. Things are getting worse in every area. Venezuela is critical. Venezuela has been living a long time, and I would say that its democracy has long been ill, and that the social context has long since failed. The state is ill, the State of Venezuela is extremely corrupt, and we may safely say that the law is entirely extinct today. And we are concerned about the rising of the repression of the government of Venezuela during this last period, especially against the political disidens, and I want to mention here also the leader of the Euscalic Institute of Yon Gorechea. And we ask the Venezuelan government to release all political prisoners as soon as possible and fire them. Eta, bestalde –eta gero ezeztatu bazen ere –, gaitzetsi egiten dugu Venezuelako Auzitegi Gorenaren erbaki bat, Asanblea Nationalen eskumenak betan behera ustera deitzen zuena, zehazki. Because it does not seem democratic to me, Mrs Etxebarrieta, that a power such as the Supreme Court, a judiciary, should come to capture or steal the powers of a parliament like this. Eta, nire ustez, Maduro presidentak botere guztiak eskuratu nahi ditu, éta gero eta argiago iruditzen zait de facto diktadura bat installtu nahi duela. And I have more relations with Venezuela than with Turkey, but I have no difficulty in criticizing President Maduro and criticizing President Erdogan, because I believe they are on a similar path: they are going to install a de facto dictatorship, eliminating the powers of democracy, the powers that Montesquieu – which you will well know – defined so well, the separation of powers. Venezuelako egora politicokoaz apart, egora sozioekonomikoa eta segurtasuna negagarriak dira. The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela has been living for a long time in a complicated period of political, but also socio-economic, critical situation: a systematic and exponential deterioration of democracy and a breakdown of public services, a continuous increase in the level of poverty, a lack of health and food products – as Mr Barrio has already said – and a country that has virtually no future. In 2015 – I think it was one of the first times I had to talk about Venezuela here, or in 2014 – the International Monetary Fund made an inflation forecast for Venezuela of 96.8%, for that year. It is true that the IMF was grossly confused, because the year ended with 271% inflation, (2015). In this year 2017 prices are going to multiply by eight, which is 800 % of inflation, and will again multiply by twenty-one, according to the IMF, in 2018. In total, accumulating 2017 and 2018 we will multiply prices by 178, and have an inflation of 17,000 and peak percent in two years. And what's more, with these figures, that President Maduro, last Monday, May 1, Labor Day, increased the base wage by 60%, if inflation has already eaten it in two days! According to a study carried out by three universities (Catholic Andrés Bello, Simón Bolivar and the Central University of Venezuela), 73% of households (73% of households) are already in poverty. Buying what the Government calls the minimum food basket requires 17 minimum wages. Today here, in Euskadi, about 10,000 euros a month to be able to eat, for the minimum food basket. If that is not a democratic drift in an untenable socio-economic situation, you will tell me! And as prices in bolivards do the same, I'm going to do some equivalents in gasoline, high-consumption items and gasoline; gasoline that Nicolás Maduro himself increased in February 2006, from one day to another, by 6,000 % (sixty times, from one day to another). Well, to buy the equivalent of two kilos of sweetener, of saccharin, 15,193 litres of gasoline, 15,193; half a kilo of coffee, 358 litres of gasoline; one can of Pepsi, 300 litres of gasoline; half a kilo of cookies, the cheapest ones, 238 litres of gasoline; one kilo of corn flour that people use to make arepas, 167 litres of gasoline; one can of 180 grams of tuna, 739; one deodorant, 200 litres of gasoline. You've already told Mr. Barrio, there's no toilet paper, there's no toilet wipes, there's nothing. Last March Venezuela was declared the poorest nation in Latin America. And yet President Maduro just bought himself last week, or fifteen days ago better said, a new personal jet of 65 million euros. And since the Minister of Energy could not be less, another has been bought for 54 million euros. If this is really the Bolivarian revolution, then turn it off and let's go. I'd say poor Simon Bolivar. And Venezuela lacks everything, and there is violence and there is corruption. Mr. Barrio said: the second country in the world with more homicides. But, on the other hand, Venezuela has obtained sixteen points out of a hundred in the Corruption Perception Index published by Transparency International. This score ranks at 166 out of 176 countries analysed, with only Afghanistan, Libya, Sudan, Yemen, Syria, North Korea, South Sudan and Somalia left behind. So Venezuela can't go on like this. We protect the conversation and negotiation table between the Venezuela government and the opposition, because we believe that democratic order is the only means of appearing in itself. We also want to denounce the submission of the judiciary to the government as early as last year; the arrests – as I said before in Basque – of Yon Goicoechea, Leopoldo López, Antonio Ledezma and many other opponents, and also the disproportionate repression of demonstrations, with the use of firearms and dozens and dozens of deaths, in addition to arbitrary arrests. And, beyond Venezuela's announcement of its departure from the OAS, we call on this organization, together with Unasur, the Vatican, and so on, to convince the opposition to return to the negotiating table and to quickly organize a clean and democratic election. Hau da lorutu duguna erdibideko honetan, éta Venezuelari eskatzen dioguna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u136	Thank you, Mr Aguire. A group that hasn't committed any correction, Podemos, Mr Martínnez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u137	Thank you. Good afternoon. The day came: Venezuela as a smokescreen once again. When the PP has many cases of corruption to cover up, it brings Venezuela to light. And, of course, this time there are so many cases that, more than a tupid veil, it needs a curtain. Our group decided not to table amendments to this non-legislative proposal, as we considered it to be a proposal that follows the same strategy as those put forward in Europe and in Congress, to demagogy and, above all, to entangle and complicate, instead of helping to resolve the situations that are taking place in Venezuela. In addition, it was done with a convoluted conscience, so that virtually none of the points could be supported. Venezuela is undoubtedly suffering a serious crisis at all levels. A serious economic crisis first, the result of erroneous decisions also by the Government, but also the result of an economic conjuncture that has caused the price of crude oil to fall to unseen levels many years ago, and also by a strategy of the employer with support from the right, which is drowning the Venezuelan economy. In Venezuela, it is true that there is a political and social polarization, but, speaking of polarization, in 2002 there was a coup d'état, which yes, in that the president was kidnapped; a coup in which a part of the current self-appointed democratic opposition participated actively and decisively. By the way, a coup that was supported by José María Aznar and the Government of Spain, in the words of former Foreign Minister Moratinos, and was also applauded by prominent members of the PNV, such as Iñaki Anasagasti. There are, and we condemn, tremendous levels of violence in Venezuela. This is a matter of great concern to us, since any political difference we believe can and should be resolved without violence, without violence of any kind. In any case, one might wonder whether the proponent groups would accept violent actions such as those that are currently living in the streets of Venezuela. I'm sure you don't. In any case, it is essential to express, as it could not otherwise be, our condolences to all the victims, their families and their relatives, because it will never be justified to lose life. Following the script presented to us in the compromise amendment, what exists in Venezuela are not political prisoners, they are prosecuted and imprisoned for criminal acts of a violent or illegal nature. There is no one imprisoned for their opinion or for participating in a demonstration. And, in case there's been unjustified arrests, there's one thing called separation of powers, and the Attorney General acts and releases them, exactly what they're saying isn't there. In Venezuela there are more than one hundred political parties and more than 5,000 demonstrations have taken place last year. In 90% of them, there was no incident of any kind. The National Assembly has 112 opposition deputies and 55 of the forces supporting the Government. Strange dictatorship. In fact, the electoral defeat was admitted from the minute one by the forces that support the Government. And freedom of the press: there are dozens and dozens of newspapers. 90% of the radios are private, more than half of the television channels are private. So let's not fire wood. With regard to dialogue, the Government has been calling for national dialogue for sixteen weeks. By the way, also a part of the opposition, unfortunately now isolated and minority by two radical parties. Why do we not help that part of the opposition to join the dialogue? Why don't we do that and don't fire fire fire on the opposition forces who don't want that dialogue? A dialogue that we support, led by Unasur, led by Zapatero, Leonel Fernández and Torrijos. And a dialogue that, in the words of the pope (dangerous communist), said he was surprised that it was the responsibility of the opposition division that made them unable to sit at that table again. As for the National Assembly, the Supreme Court has not dissolved the National Assembly at any time. The origin of the controversy..., there is a fight, with three minutes of deputy of the Amazon region that has been shown, among other things (among other things), that they bought votes. Only three; they have 112: there would be no change in the correlation of forces. And that assembly, which the Supreme Court told him not to recognize those deputies, turned down the Supreme Court. Let us imagine that the Congress of Deputies or this Parliament would turn down the Supreme Court! By the way, it sounds to me like a guy named Homs just left his seat as a Member of Parliament for a decision of the Supreme Court of Spain. Can you imagine what would have happened if that contempt had been on the part of Congress? As far as international agencies are concerned, there has been a bit of a stir in this proposal, but it has obvious errors, because the United Nations takes part in Venezuela, and Venezuela takes part in the United Nations. There are problems, but there is no humanitarian crisis. And declaring a humanitarian crisis, and let us not be naive, in international humanitarian law justifies foreign interventions. There is no humanitarian crisis in Venezuela. There are many problems of different kinds, and no one denies that (economic, social and other problems), but Venezuela also accepted 97 per cent of the recommendations made by the Human Rights Council in its last report. As for the OAS, I don't think the institution goes through its best moments. It is questioned throughout the continent, and discredited. And I think that an institution that has a president who allows himself the luxury of calling a democratically elected president a dictator... I don't think that's the best way to call dialogue. Instead, and there we agree, call Unasur and Celac (because it is no longer time for colonial ministries), and call these two organizations to Latin America... , these organizations have emerged and have a leading role. I believe that in that we agree, that they must lead that process of dialogue. And the reference to the European Union. I have read "common position," and I have felt vertigo about what they were trying to say with these words. Because this mistake was already made by the European Union with Cuba. This common position towards Cuba led by Aznar has served no purpose. I ask you not to repeat that mistake of common positions of the European Union. As for the proposal for a constituent assembly made by President Maduro, I do not know if there is the thing so entangled by the distance, or that they have not been well aware of what they are proposing. The opposition since 2013 (here are several statements of deputies of the Bureau of Democratic Unity)... , has been calling for a constituent assembly since 2013. This has been done under article 3.4.8 of the Constitution, voted by all Venezuelans and which now also defends the opposition (for many years it has been fighting it). I am convinced that the People's Party and the Socialist Party will defend the democratically voted constitutions. The objective of this constituent assembly, as has been said, is to open a space for dialogue between all sectors, all, without excluding any, of Venezuelan society; to reconstitute consensus on key issues, and to develop an election process in which all the public authorities, all, from the president of the assembly to all the powers elected by universal suffrage, are submitted to the ballot box. And no assembly is dissolved, because the National Assembly, although still in contempt, continues to function. And for that constituent assembly there will be elections, which are being organized by the National Electoral Council, with a secret and direct vote, to elect five hundred Venezuelans who will form that constituent assembly. I am not surprised, of course, that the PP and the PNV support right-wing opposition in Venezuela. It is legitimate that they should not commune with countries like Venezuela, which has decided to take its place and try to take a path to ensure social justice and solidarity, apart from the crisis situation that is currently under way. But it must be remembered that even before the arrival of the revolution in Venezuela there were thousands and thousands of Venezuelans (I'm sure Mr. Aguirre knows him) who had no right to vote, because they were not even censused, the Government had not even made that effort. Now they will be able to participate and they will be able to vote in favour or against what they think. And it is normal, as I said, that they do not like countries in which strategic sectors respond to the needs of citizens or people. But even if they don't like it, I call them to respect them. Because it was the people themselves who voted for them, both for the government and for the assembly, for the two of them. And above all, let us not lend the slightest support to those who use violence to overthrow democratically elected governments. It is curious that the Government of Colombia is encouraged, Mr. Barrio, and the Government of Venezuela is demanded and condemned. It's curious. But, for everything explained – and I finish – reasoned and argued, we are not going to support this initiative, we are going to vote against, and we ratify our support for the people of Venezuela, for their legal order, for dialogue, for peace as a way to resolve political differences; our solidarity with all the victims, and, of course, our support for social justice, for democracy and for the freedom of the peoples of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u138	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Passing the answers, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mr. Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u139	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Martínez began his speech, of course, saying that this allegation, this initiative, was a smokescreen. Look, Mr. Martinez, what we're seeing here every day are fire curtains, bullet curtains, poverty curtains and repression curtains. That's what we're seeing every day. You also think that we have fallen off a leash in relation to what has been the opposition to this initiative! You think those things... You believe them just the same, but you think we have to believe others! Man, I guess it'll be the style book, the argumentary that Maduro has passed to his partners around the world on this issue. That is what we believe it has to be, because I also believe that it was structured in that regard in relation to that issue. And I realize how important the funding that Maduro's regime has given his party can be. That is, that I understand that there has to be a dependency that I escape, but that of course I cannot share, that I have to denounce and that masks and obscures with more than smokescreens his own speech on this issue. And how can you not support any of the points...! No, you told me that we have developed an initiative so that they cannot be supported. But tell me you can't support any of the points! That is to say, I have done a reading earlier on the issues, which included the demands of this Parliament's proposed compromise amendment. He conveys his condolences to the relatives of those who died in the demonstrations, and calls for an in-depth investigation of those deaths. Don't tell me you can't support this point! But don't tell me you can't ask for the immediate release of all political prisoners, including that of a person of Basque origin like Yon Goicoechea! Don't tell me you can't ask for the freedom of Mr. Antonio Ledezma or Mr. Leopoldo López! I mean, don't tell me you can't do it on these issues. Don't tell me you can't call on the European Union to take steps! Some have already done it, incipients. But do not tell me that the situation in relation to the humanitarian crisis cannot be denounced, and that there can be an analysis by the UN authorities! I referred earlier, in fact, to the statements of the High Commissioner of the United Nations, who first spoke and qualified the repression in the country, and what is the threat by Venezuela of abandoning the OAS, he said that he does not have permission to monitor human rights in Venezuela. The UN High Commissioner, Mr Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein, has said so. He said it! I mean, that's not in his style book, that's not in his argumentary about Venezuela, is it? And the last pronouncements are there: the European Parliament's pronouncement, by a very large majority, on Thursday 27 April; the Senate last week, with 87% of the Senate; the OAS... Now it turns out that Mr. Almagro, the secretary of the OAS, of course, as he criticizes Mr. Maduro, and he does so forcefully, so now he is disqualified! Mr. Almagro was elected by 33 of the 34 OAS countries, and is perfectly consolidated and perfectly legitimized to establish strong criticism of Mr. Maduro's dictatorship. He's done it, and he's done it like that, he's done it with those words. Mr. Almagro said that Venezuela "severely suffers from a constitutional disorder by a regime that has violated the Constitution in all its fundamental principles", "...a fraudulent call to a constituent assembly". That is, "the regime has already violated the separation of powers, fundamental freedoms with arbitrary detention and political imprisonment of its citizens, it has violated the independence of the judiciary, and the social rights of its people, who do not have access to health care or food". Okay? The OAS says so through its Secretary General. Mr Almagro also said, "He has violated the principle of justice with the unpunished murder by security forces and paramilitary groups of peaceful citizens." I know that it has to hurt those who have depended financially on Maduro's regime. I know, Mr. Martinez, it's hard. But admit it, think about it. They have an opportunity to do so in this Parliament, but don't give me the argument, in relation to... And the argument of an international nature; I suppose the embassy or some person or diplomat will have given them a number of slogans on this issue. I want to finish. Of course, there has been nothing but the editorials, the articles of the entire international and Spanish press these days, about how the international community should act in relation to the Venezuelan regime. We've seen it. It was impeccable the opinion and editorial of El País last Wednesday and many other newspapers. I have been watching a number of impeccably democratic European newspapers, and the truth is that I have found no exception. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u140	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Protect the representative of the EH team, Mrs. Houseland, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u141	Yes, thank you. We have stated from the start that there is no doubt that there are economic and social problems. What we place on the table is that all the information we receive can always be one-sided and at least be capable of doubt. And if, as you have mentioned, all this business about food is concerned, we shall not deny it. But the question is, from whence this business of nutrient is derived, to say what we have of all those pounds which have been smuggled. I mean: There's plenty to study and practice back there. That is why we wish to express our full respect to those who are trying to take steps in the way of remedy, and again to sit down again at the table, and to the people of Venezuela, to show all respect for their decisions and all their decisions. Later on, we'd like to say that we're talking about political prisoners, but sometimes the focus gets a little distance from us. Because some people don't see what's being checked there. And we ought also to speak of corruption; we ought to speak here of the elimination of corruption; we ought also to speak of poverty; we should here speak of torture; we ought to speak of the Law of Mozal, and of many other reasons, which have reason to continue our work upon the table. Thus, in order to let Venezuela cultivate their affairs in their manner and manner, we place this premise upon the table, and we, as well and well-disposed in this international community, make an invitation as possible to the reconciliation of their affairs. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u143	Thank you, Madam President. It is not an invention, it is not a pronouncement that is made on empty conclusions! What I have denounced regarding the situation in Venezuela I swear I have not invented. I can't read it here; it's an Amnesty International report on 2016-2017. And I believe that in Amnesty International's reports, such as the United Nations human rights rapporteurs, such as democracy, we do not take "this yes, this is not; this I like, this I do not like". It's not like a supermarket, where "I do it, I don't do it, and I like it or I don't like it." Amnesty International says that, I swear they're not my words. Or I promise, as you like best. The general information is what is said, and Amnesty International speaks of impunity; of the withdrawal of the country from the jurisdiction of the Inter-American Court of Human Rights and what this implies for the reparation of victims of human rights violations and their families. Amnesty International talks about excessive use of force. Amnesty International speaks of human rights defenders who continue to be targets of attacks and intimidation by the state media and high-ranking government officials. Amnesty International talks about conditions – I'm not going to say the whole report, it's ten pages, but it's at everyone's disposal –... it talks about conditions of detention with serious problems of overcrowding; it talks about arbitrary arrests and detentions. Amnesty International talks about prisoners and prisoners of conscience. He talks about people being imprisoned who are politically opposed to the Government. He talks about dismissing appeals against the prison sentence imposed on a prisoner of conscience, Leopoldo López. And today Amnesty International was demanding help from the networks for the inhuman and degrading treatment it considered the situation to which Leopoldo López is subjected in prison, since he is incommunicado and unrelated to his family and his lawyers. Amnesty International talks about the abuse of the police and security forces, the abuse of freedom of expression, violence against women and girls, the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex women affected by government decisions. He spoke of actions contrary to sexual and reproductive rights; of non-compliance with legal provisions to guarantee and regulate consultation with indigenous peoples on issues affecting their livelihoods. He also talks about the condition to the right to health, the lack of food and medicines. I insist, you don't take a part, or you don't take the whole thing, I've said it before. Venezuela is not the only country in the world that requires our attention in terms of human rights violations, it is not the only country in the world that requires our attention in terms of autocratic and dictatorial regimes, at all, but it also deserves our attention. It also deserves our attention. And we, truly – and believe me, Mr Zatón, I tell you, and you will believe me – read Amnesty International's report always, in the part that affects us and that does not affect us. Like the reports of the United Nations rapporteurs. I'm not going to talk for the others. And with regard to that appeal, which I believe I had no intention of expressing, when I was talking about what the proponents and proponents would think about whether we were talking about violence in Euskadi, I don't know, I'm not talking about others, but I think they share it: the same thing we think about Venezuela. Same thing. We are concerned and concerned and we receive Amnesty International when it talks about the human rights situation in Spain; we are concerned, we are concerned and it also has to be done when it speaks in this case of Venezuela. I really insist on those who have not shared the compromise amendment, that there are reasons for the rapprochement. Another thing is not that it has been achieved. And yes, it may be true, other countries would also deserve a bill to address those rights, and here too, but that's what we do. We will meet when we present these propositions, and I believe – and I do not think I am wrong – that we have been found almost always. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Euneraries, Mr Aguirre, are yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u145	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínez Zatón, the PNV has always condemned and criticized all the coups d'état against democracy. The one of Francoism and that of Thursday, April 11, 2002 against the government of President Hugo Chávez. I'm not going to tell you where I was at that time, but I was following the crisis or events very closely, even if it was two thousand kilometers away. And the PNV also criticized the attempted coup d'état of Lieutenant Colonel Hugo Chávez Frías in February 1992, where, by the way, another Basque citizen, Gaizka Etxearte, son of Domeka Etxearte, died abertzale of pure strain. I was quite surprised when he said that there were no political prisoners in Venezuela! And the people who are incarcerated, what are they, common criminals? Yon Goicoechea, Leopoldo López, Ledezma, what are they? Messedity! And, well, thanks to the contubernium of not knowing where, Venezuela's economic situation is as it is. Look, when President Hugo Chávez came to real power in the year 99, after the election he democratically won in the year 98, the price of the oil barrel was $10. Over the course of fifteen years he has had it averaged at $65, with peaks at $146. He had all the money in the world to fix Venezuela's structural problems, and he did nothing. And if you say that today people can vote, that there are millions of citizens who can vote, it is false. It is false, because not only do they have no papers, but many of them are not even censused. Go to the ranches of Caracas, go to Petare, where, by the way, the smuggling of food is organized, from Petare to the Colombian border, and inside Caracas. And they're neighborhoods controlled by Bolivarian cells. Barkatu's waiting. And here too must we remember another thing: Venezuela left the Human Rights Convention in September 2013, four years ago. And this is a decision which prevents its citizens from calling for protection in the United States of Human Rights. And that's why we ask that the government be supported and respected by universal human rights. And violent demonstrations... But there is a decree, 86/10, which justifies the use of firearms against demonstrators, which also expressly contradicts the Venezuelan National Constitution. The international community in general, but in particular the Commission on Human Rights and the Committee against Torture of the United Nations, the OAS or the European Parliament, have made numerous calls for dialogue, respect for democratic principles and Venezuela's international commitments in the field of human rights. That means that there is no democracy in Venezuela today. Didn't President Maduro convene the regional elections last year? You didn't summon them? We're all just waiting. And we, from the Basque Laws, have asked the government of Venezuela more than once to respect its constitution and human rights. And let all political and social forces push the constructor into conversation. And today we'll do the same. And that's what I was supposed to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u146	Thank you, Mr Aguire. And finally, the representative of the Podemos, Martínez-Inez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u147	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I wanted to ask the Bureau for protection from insults and outright false accusations by the spokesman for the People's Party. I ask the Bureau to force Mr Barrio to withdraw the words on the accusation of illegal financing of the party, of my comrades from Podemos. Because he is accusing us of making a crime, and I ask the Bureau, please, to force Mr Barrio to withdraw those words, because there is no judicial conviction, not even a judicial investigation, other than that political police that the PP had in Madrid. [[Berber]] I understand that Mr Barrio maintains the words, therefore he maintains the insults, and that the Bureau does not speak to this, and we will again ask the Bureau for amparo at its next meeting. Mr Barrio, the one who negotiates with corrupt officials of the Government of Venezuela is the brother of Ignacio González of the People's Party. The seller of the anti-disturbing material to the Venezuelan police is his Government, and the previous Government. Let's see who has the most relations with the Government of Venezuela! Let's see who's got more! Just like dozens of Venezuelan cops are under arrest for police abuse. Just like here, years after the murder of Íñigo Cabacas, it's still unsolved. Exactly the same, and that goes for everyone. Exactly the same. In full agreement, and returning to the proposal, with the proposals of Euskal Herria Bildu on the promotion of peace and the promotion of dialogue, which is what we have come to and what goes on in our intervention. And of course we consider Leopoldo López not a political prisoner. He's a leader who encouraged demonstrations. There is a sentence, and they have curiously removed it from the proposition. He said, 2007: "I call to manifest by non-peaceful means...". Textual words; there are videos, and surely they know them, in the demonstrations that took place in the universities of Venezuela, in the private universities. That's what Leopoldo Lopez said. And Operation "The Exit" caused 43 deaths, as Mr. Aguirre will surely know. And yes, I am the first critic with the government, having not changed the oil matrix, the matrix of the oil economy, during the years in which it could be done. I'm the first critic with that. But that doesn't justify foreign intervention, it doesn't justify such statements. And I'm the first one to condemn and the one who doesn't like riot control, not here or anywhere. I don't like them. But I don't like these pictures either. It's three burning police cars. Is this a democratic opposition manifesting itself? No, no, That is not a democratic opposition. There is democratic opposition, of course, but this is not what is being manifested by violent means. That is not the democratic opposition. And that's why, and there was my initial intervention, what we wanted to do... And, well, I'm going back to the points, which Mr. Barrio was asking me. The only point with which we fully agree, of course, is with point 2, which I have been asked to do so again: solidarity with all the victims, without distinction, with all. But in the others things have been mixed up that have not allowed us to vote in favour. Because what we were proposing from our group in the intervention was: one, promoting national dialogue, through the mechanism promoted by Unasur, with the intervention of the Pope and the former presidents we have mentioned; two, respect for all the elections that have taken place in Venezuela (respect for all); three, respect for the decisions of the public authorities of Venezuela, and four, respect for the constituent assembly that will be launched at this time, which will be elected by secret and direct vote, and then also respect, whatever happens (win the forces that support the Government, or lose the forces that support the Government), respect the decisions that the people of Venezuela make. And it is to what we have to devote ourselves to, and not to this kind of statement, that all they do is throw wood into the fire. Mr Barrio, I urge you again to withdraw your words, because, if not, you file a complaint, if you have evidence of the illegal financing of the political party of my comrades from Podemos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u148	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. End of discussion, we'll vote for the American popular Basques, the half-correction signed by Basque Socialists and Eucabertists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 70; votes given, 71; supporters 44; rivals 27; white, 0; abstentions 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-04.u149	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Since the list of subjects has been exhausted, the whole meeting ends. It was half past six in the afternoon.
