ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Sit each on your seats. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Sealand Mountains of the Eubertians, made of Cultura and the chief of the political divisions of Language, about the support and the use of culture." My dear madam, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Chief, Congressman, all of you, bye-bye. Mr. Zupiria, "All of us is concerned that culture should be refreshed, that it should be the companion of the creators, that we all have a share of the popular project, and the contribution of society will be necessary in that way. Besides strengthening the scope of creation, besides strengthening its access, we wish to extend the sphere of culture." Such were the words which you uttered in one of the first occurrences of the legislature. You said, on the other hand, that to offer new opportunities to the use of support, and to facilitate the life of languages, was one of your ends. Once they asked Little Lazau: "What can be done, eusugatio? And he answered: "What can you do? Talk to me. And that's the most effective measure of ecomotion, isn't it? Even a media in recent named department asked you the same question: "What will Bingen do for the eruption? "And it was your answer: "Keep an open and supple attitude to the people who speak and are learning as often as I can, with confidence." We all have known your other intentions, among other things, you have mentioned the locality of the City Law, which ought to be pushed into other areas: health, education, leisure... You said, although we live in very eupcalous quarters, we are more and more connected with the world, and important to be present in these connexions. You said that there is a kind of invisibleness about the culture of eucalyptic and eucalyptic culture, especially of those who know not how to resist. There is a human movement in our country which thinks itself an cultural elite, which has no connection with the culture of eucalyptic and eucalyptic culture, and that this world lives on its back and without any problem. And then that we are euccaneers, we are aware of what is going on. You mentioned the digital world with the new ways of doing things, you said there's a cultural change in creation, consumption and expansion. You've mentioned them all, and we know how essential culture is for a people who wants to survive. What distinguishes a people from the rest of the people is, in some measure, a culture. To culture and support, we want to know what plans you have in mind when you do them. That's why the question is: What's the project of Cultural and Language Politics in order to promote the use of Eshucka and culture? And in advance, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Müller. In reply, Mr. Zupiria, who is the representative of MUGHY, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u3	Mr. President, members of the legislature, fellow governments, good days to all. If I were to cut short in a few words in the field of culture, and in the language, I would use these two words: use and manifestness. We are more and more men and women who have become masters of the victory; we have in our heart and mind, and we must have it for years to come, to carry it from head and heart to our lips. Promoting the use of euskera and promoting its visibility are the guiding principles of the public policies that we raise in the field of linguistic policy. Let's give him visibility, and let's use the euskera. The knowledge of Euskar has increased in our country. We are more and more of the Basques that we have come to us, who are able to speak, or who can understand the language euscal. Let us therefore make this air of eucalypancy towards our social use. To promote use, we must give a full priority to the ability to speak and understand, to the use of mouth. We have to expand this priority to all sorts of fields and areas. We need it in education, in the euscalisation and alpha of adults, in the sports and leisure of children and young men, in public services, in enterprises, and social society. To this end, it is the duty of the institutions to establish clearly the public policies that should encourage the use of Basque and encourage public efforts. But that's not enough. The accession of citizens, especially those who have not had the opportunity to learn Basque, has been decisive so far for the number of Basques to progress in a remarkable and spectacular way in our country. That social commitment will also be decisive for us to give a new impetus to the use of Basque. With public institutions, we need cooperation with groups, associations, and enterprises created from our society. In this sense, it will be a special initiative to encourage the Language of the Department with the Company, in order to arrange special enterprises for the use of the eucalyptus, and let us make use of what we can understand. At the same time, we are working to increase the visibility and consumption of culture. The cultural creation that takes place in Euskadi has a high level of recognition for its quality and innovation. We have a wide and rich cultural offer and cultural events and institutions with the ability to attract. Promoting culture and its visibility is also a primary objective of this Government. In calls and programmes to support the performing arts, audiovisual arts or creative factories, we will demand concrete actions aimed at increasing the participation of the audience, as well as attracting new audiences. We will continue to develop initiatives from public museums, from our network of libraries and from film, music and theatre festivals, and will develop specific programmes for attracting new audiences, especially between children and young people. The aim is to encourage cultural agents, organizations and companies to design plans that enhance the practice of consumption and its use. In a short way I have tried to determine the use and visible use of language and culture which are in hand the parlamentary Mountains. This task demands the work of the neighbourhood, and when we speak of the neighbourhood and of the co-workers, we do not refuse the responsibility we have as a manager. But our initiative will not be enough apart from the local institutions, unless we work together with the representatives of society. So use and apparent in the neighborhood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u4	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Ubeka Uzara and EH Collect, made to the Chief of Security, concerning breaking the language of the people at the entrance of the legislature." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u5	Good morning. The edge of the porch did not hear the recommendation of Little Lakao. Ladies and gentlemen, where's the joke? Are you kidding me? No. In the law? No. Are you kidding me when you're out of town? Or did our dear little bird die of sorrow? From the entrance of this house with the most symbolic weight, the rights of citizens are violated. The entrance to this house where the edge handles is a foreign entrance to the Basques. We Basques aren't welcome, not those words, but that's what we're saying, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia. It was the way they came to meet the teachers and students in the school at Lechetio. It's not the first time we've asked about this front entrance. In 2013 we asked you about this subject, and you said to us, "Never mind, don't worry, it's the priority and we have the remedy: Euskar's Use Plan. We're in 2017 and this plan hasn't been executed. The remedy has failed and the rights continue to be violated. How long? Doesn't that sound right to you, Mrs. Chief, to tear your citizens' rights into that angle where the edge handles?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u7	Thank you, ma'am. President, good morning. It is well known, because we have often said what the knowledge of the Eustia is of the Border, and what difficulty we have to keep the members of all public services. The Ertzaintza and Parliament have for a long time been seeing how to alleviate this lack of bilingual agents in the security service. It has always worked with two objectives: on the one hand, to cover as many places as possible with an adequate bilingual profile, and, on the other hand, to fill the gaps of sufficient knowledge in Basque with proactive communicative attitudes. In the first euskera plan of the Ertzaintza you have shown there is a working group to improve these aspects, and specific measures have been put in place for the Building Security Unit. However, the issue was not simple; there was always a need to combine the consolidated labour rights of agents who already occupied certain places of ownership or who, where appropriate, opted for certain posts, the deadlines for their preceptivity, and the real needs for bilingual public care. And the desired goal is not always achieved in the desired time. In any case, we're at a hopeful juncture. Today we dedicate more resources than ever to the liberations to learn and improve the Basque language (150 per year); the aid for self-learning is 100 per cent; the staff of the Building Security Unit has priority to access intensive courses of Basque language in working hours. The overall budget allocated by the department to euskaldunisation and literacy this year is €1,330,000. But, above all, the last three calls, the last three calls, the last three promotions, are certainly hopeful in this sense: almost one hundred percent of the people who have accessed or are candidates have a Basque profile, with a very high proportion with the title EGA. We're working on this reality, and we're going on, like, no rest.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u8	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u9	The Basques, like the rest of the people, are simply trying to guarantee the right and freedom of speaking in our language. And the Administration is the duty of securing the rights of its workmen and citizens, and offering service to support them, and the Edges must do so because it is part of the Administration and the point. Look, I'm going to tell you in Spanish, as your performances and those of the Ertzaintza that you run show that you care and respect better those who address you in Spanish: respect me, respect us the Basque speakers. Miss gaitzazu euskraz bizi nahi dugunok.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u11	I know that someone who's out on the edge might ask someone to do it for me, and that this might make him uncomfortable. Feelings are feelings, respectable, but like one's own, of one's neighbour. Therefore I would ask the people who complain, to try to put them in the place of the edge of which he has asked them to do them as far as they can, if they could, to put them in the place of the edge he had asked them to do them with his youth, and to ask the hickey of the elfuerzo para-mide de entendere el porqué de certas Sitaces. It is difficult in the day to day that all the services of the Ertzaintza arrive today to attend to each and every citizen in Basque. That is why we should also explain, and especially to the younger ones, where we come from and how much we are winning with peace. Explain, for example, why not yet long ago no ertzaina had the freedom to go to a Basquetegi in his free time, the reason for that situation, and try to understand also... [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u12	Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u13	... the effort they're making a good number of ertzains, because they couldn't do it then. And also explain why joining the Ertzaintza can be a good professional choice, that those who access the Ertzaintza Basic Scale today are lucky enough to be bilingual in their entirety. Putting oneself in the place of the other helps to better understand reality. Our forecast is that in five years we can get 50% of Ertzaintza to have PL1 profile. But, as I say, zailtasunak zailtasun, horretara iristeko lanean jarraituko dugu, jakin, badakigun bilbid lease lumea dugula eginkizun. Thank you. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u14	Thank you. [[Berber]] Urruzuno, please be quiet. One more and... [[Berber]] Please be quiet, will you? It's not your... [[Berber]] Mr. Uruzuno, please. Okay. On the street. Get out! Get out! [[Berber]] Mr. Uruzuno! Mr. Uruzuno! Mr. Uruzuno, I told you to go out. I said get out! I said get out! Mr. Uruzuno, I want to continue the plune. [[Berber]] I told you to shut up three times. Please go out... Unai, please, out. Please go out. Mr. Uruzuno, please, I'm telling you out. Respect to him who speaks, even if he doesn't like what he says. Respect for what he's talking about. [[Berber]] Mr. Uruzuno, get out! Mr. Uruzuno, get out! Mr. Uruzuno, out on the street. The one who speaks respect here, even if he doesn't like what he's saying. Third point in theme list: "Ask me, Jon Hernández Hidalez, a member of the Podemos team to the president, and Mrs. Beatriz Artolaz, the chief physician of the Worlds of the Euskals, to be worthy of his life, sufficiently economically." Mrs. Guanche, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u15	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. I'm not Jon Hernanndez... Congressmen, Mr. President. Zehatz-mehatz gallera botako dut: Does the lehendakari share the statements of Councilwoman Artolazabal that 650 euros are sufficient to guarantee a dignified life in Euskadi?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u17	Ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen, gentlemen and gentlemen, good morning. It is a bad exercise, Mrs Guanche, if we take as a reference an instant answer to a question, without taking into account the context and without taking into account what the adviser herself has said in the relevant parliamentary committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u19	Mr Urkullu, I expected from someone like you a different answer, something else, but I see you opt for the easy and just defend the indefensible. And no. Dignity for us does not give it a wage or a social benefit, it is a condition inherent to the human being, but it is no less true that when certain basic needs cannot be met, or when it is done with difficulty, living conditions cease to be worthy and cease to be equal to what any person deserves or who is entitled to for his or her simple human condition. I imagine that if you have never been in a situation of necessity, or if you have never been faced with social exclusion, everyday things that happen to any citizen on foot are unknown. Do you know how much a rented apartment costs? On average, 800 euros. Do you know how much the shopping basket costs? On average, 250. Do you know when the average cost of water or light is? 70 or 80 euros per month. Let's make a sum and a subtraction, let's make Grandma's bills: a rent, eat, have water and light (let's no longer talk about heating), a person in the Basque Country costs more than 1,100 euros. Now, explain to those people what kind of impossible juggling they would have to do in their day to day with 650 euros, how they do to cover all these expenses. And no matter how much you add up to the supplementary housing benefit: you still lack euros to get people to the end of the month or to technically consider them out of poverty. Are you really going to tell us that with 650 euros it is not true that you do not manage to lead a dignified life or to cover basic needs? He sometimes forgets, or perhaps does not know, that in Euskadi the house, supplies and basket of purchase are among the highest in the State. Sometimes it seems that he does not want to remember that there are many people who need GIR and who also work, people who do not reach 650 euros a month with employment either. There are exactly one third of those who charge GIR who work in precarious jobs and do not reach them at all. And, more importantly, the lack of knowledge about access to which many and many people are entitled is up to date in our community. There are many people who could and don't ask for GIR. One in two remains in poverty, according to data from the Government's own poverty and inequality survey. In your Basque oasis for a long time now, having a job does not always ensure that you can live in dignity, but it seems to you that it does not matter, when the greatest concern your Government communicates is to spend more on controlling a fraud that does not reach 1% than on improving the lives of all people. And they don't care what Caritas says, they don't care what social entities say, they don't care what Ararteko says. What about the 59,000 people who are outside social protection systems and continue to live in poverty! What do you say, Mr. Lehendakari? Do we reduce the standard of living to EUR 429 from the long-term unemployment benefit? His pact with the PP in the budgets seems to have infected them with the worst tics of his company. In the face of the road ahead, you have two options: to reduce the rights and dignity of thousands of people, or to let go of the PP's hand, to leave those steps behind, and to be brave and to seek agreements with political forces to improve what exists. Which one will you choose, Mr. Urkullu, blue pill, or purple pill, green...? You'll know.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u21	Chief of Parliament. Mrs Guanche, the 650 euros are a help to get out of a situation of necessity. The objective is to achieve the integration of these people into work, a job, a job and a sufficient wage. Sufficient is what makes it possible to guarantee a decent life for people of working age. Not the 650 euros, not the 900 euros, not the 1,200 euros: a job and a sufficient salary. Avoiding the chronisation of the risk of marginalization and the need for aid is the objective of income guarantee income, but income guarantee income, which is a subjective right, is part of the social protection system. Benefits extend to all areas: health, education, housing or transport, for example. People most in need can sustain a dignified life with our global social protection system. Basque society, with its institutions and social entities – yes, Mrs Guanche – has been helping people who need it most for thirty years, trying to make the social gap the smallest possible, working for social cohesion. And, with all due respect, I do not think it is right to focus the debate on the question raised in the question, especially if you forget and forget, Mrs Guanche, interestedly, other benefits offered to people in need. I recognize that we still have a lot to do, a lot of way to go to further reduce poverty, and that is one of our recognized goals. And also to improve the quality of employment. This Parliament has presented us with a proposal to improve the income-guarantee system. The counsellor presented the diagnosis and detailed twenty improvement measures. Our aim is to ensure social cohesion and that public resources reach those in need. The situations of poverty, Mrs Guanche, and of risk of poverty, worry me and occupy at least as much as you do. As much as you. Our responsibility is to ensure a system that helps people who are experiencing the worst; the goal must be to facilitate the integration of the beneficiaries. Look, I am not going to address this issue from demagogic positions, and more, even if it is recurrent in the political sphere, as a result of responses or exhibitions used in a stagnant way, without attending to the whole of the reflections. The Government has documented, contrasted and presented twenty new measures in response to the mandate of a parliamentary agreement. We are ready to agree, to reach agreements, from the realism and recognition of the basis we have at our disposal in Euskadi, Mrs Guanche. The aim is to improve the income guarantee income system and social protection, to help those who need it most. Let us face this issue seriously, with rigour and responsibility, with realism, without demagoguery, Mrs Guanche. Because, since you insist, ask in Madrid, Barcelona or Cadiz, how it is possible to live with zero euros, Mrs Guanche. In those cities their party has been ruling for two years, and there are many people and families who are not receiving any help. Your party has declared, Mrs Guanche, that the Basque social protection system is your model for Spain. Why don't you apply it? The question is why are you so demanding in Gasteiz and so permissive in Cadiz? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "The question is, that Alexia Castelo de sa Euscala Sozia, a member of the staff of the United States, made to the Chief of Work and Justice, as to the measures which are to be taken to improve the service of the family associations of the Basque Autonomy in the Renaissance." Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u23	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Mrs San José, as you are well aware, in the plenary last week we discussed a non-legislative proposal concerning the expansion of family meeting points. We all fully share the philosophy of this service, as well as that it is a necessary service in our community. The conclusion of the debate, from my point of view, could not be more positive, because we reached a unanimous agreement, in which the department you are addressing was urged to analyse in depth the situation of the family meeting points, and that, if complementary needs are identified to which these points are currently offered, the necessary steps should be taken by your department for the implementation of new services. As you can see, all parliamentary groups have shown an interest in this service and echoed a concern, which I can assure (or believe I can assure) that we share with you as well. The family meeting points provide a service that ultimately protects the best interests of the child in situations where support is needed to ensure stable relations with their parents, mainly in family processes. The debate also raised other issues, which have to do with the relationship between these family meeting points and the courts, so that there are no delays in the communication between one service and the other, and that the reports drawn up by the family meeting points arrive in a faster way so that they can be attended to and taken into account when adjusting the service to be provided to children, depending on the actual situation they are living and being analysed by the family meeting point. The Ararteko – and we mentioned it in that plenary – made a report on this in 2013, in which he analysed the character and the basis of these family meeting points, the conditions under which service should be provided and the need for coordination with justice. Madam Counsellor, in fact the conclusions we reached on 8 June in this Parliament can be seen – and I said so in this rostrum – as a unanimous support that this House gave for its department to continue working on the line it has undertaken since the beginning of this parliamentary term. Some information was reflected and given in this rostrum on the progress being made in the service of family meeting points. What I would like today is for you to give concrete expression to the vision you have from your department of family meeting points, and above all to give us concrete insight into the steps you have taken from the department and those you are going to take in the near future. That is why we in the Socialist Group have asked you the following question: What action does the Department of Labour and Justice plan to take to improve the service provided at the family meeting points?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. Mrs Castelo, I fully agree with the conclusions of the debate in this House on 8 June, a debate which I followed very carefully and which provided me with more elements of analysis to add to the very decision that we have in the Department of Labour and Justice on family meeting points. Allow me, in principle, to reflect on the points of family encounter by judicial referral, and that is that the need for us to provide this service from the Administration derives from two premises. The first is to preserve the best interests of the child in maintaining parental and filial relations in the best conditions, and to meet this need in the event that, in the absence of agreement between the parties (parents), the intervention of the judge has been necessary to ensure the first of the principles, that best interests of the child. Personally I bet on restorative justice and mediation as a system of conflict resolution, but I am aware that, when the agreement between the parties is not reached, the judicial system must intervene, and the Administration must provide and make available the means for judicial decisions to be implemented. In any case, I conceive of this service as a guarantee instrument of a temporary nature, since it will always be seen as a success that the relationship between children and their parents can be carried out outside this service. Hence the importance of the reports produced by professionals to serve as elements of support for judicial decisions. From the very beginning, heads of the department made visits to the family meeting points, and in them we saw several of the issues that their ladies and gentlemen reflected in the debate, some of which Ararteko had already made us participants in his 2013 report. Perhaps the most important of the shortcomings identified was that of the congestion of some of the services, but we were also concerned about the excessive displacements that had to be made in other cases in order to access this service. Therefore, the first decision we made was to expand the number of family meeting points, as a measure to alleviate the two problems that seemed to us to be much more pressing. Immediately, we contacted the municipalities and communes we considered could collaborate with the department in this action. Tolosa in Gipuzkoa, and Durango and Gernika in Bizkaia, were the points that could offer the best solution to the problem. I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that, without prejudice to the conditions deriving from the analysis that you have urged us to carry out, the location of the new family meeting points in these three municipalities will contribute to the ostensibly improved service, together with the new location, with larger and better equipped premises, of Bilbao. The relationship with the leaders of local institutions has been fluid and productive. Today we have a principle of agreement in all three cases, and I hope that we will soon sign the partnership agreements, so that, on the basis of the premises of these institutions, we can provide the service, which will be financed in its entirety by the Directorate of Justice. I would like to remind you that this address allocates around EUR 1.5 million, an amount that will logically be increased with the start-up of the new family meeting points. We will have five points in Bizkaia (Bilbao, Portugalete – which also serves Zalla – Barakaldo, Durango and Gernika), two in Gipuzkoa (Donostia and Toulouse), and one in Álava (Vitoria). I can also announce to you that the common basic operating rules have been approved for all family meeting points, and it is planned to revise their regulatory decree to make any necessary changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u26	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Five point in theme list: "To ask the question, Alfonso Alonso Arnegui Rausea, a member of the Popula team made to the president about political co-ordination." Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u27	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Lehendakari, as you can see that I have a good character, I will speak well of the Government, and I will also speak well of the Councilwoman. Because there have been people who have spoken badly about the Security Advisor, but I think today is a day and a week when you can talk well. I was thinking about the value of political coordination in the question I asked you. I think that, indeed, this is the case when we look for a tune that aims to meet the priorities of society, and I think that in this case it is well focused, that is how the relationship between the political party that I represent and the one that supports your Government and to which you belong, and also between the government of the nation and the Basque Government is being focused. I think there's a happy and fortunate collaboration, and I think it's good to be involved in that. It is the Security Board that has been held this week, with the presence of the Minister of the Interior and the Secretary of State; the Security Board that has been particularly fruitful and from which agreements have emerged that are of extraordinary importance for what is a concern we all share, which is one of the main problems facing modern societies, of course the main threat to Europe, to the world in general, which is the threat of jihadist root terrorism. You said that that and cybersecurity were one of the priorities and revelations you have, and I'm not surprised that you're worried about them. In this regard, new capacities and participation in access to information, participation in the Centre for Intelligence against Terrorism and Organized Crime (CITCO), participation also in police exchange systems, or the very way of access to European systems, even for other priorities, such as the fight against gender-based violence (which can be interconnected with the VioGen System), I believe all these are decisive advances that also put an end to stages of misunderstanding, confrontation or prejudice. I would therefore like to highlight the importance of the scope of the agreements that have been reached. I would also like to congratulate the adviser on her statements – today she also read them in a media outlet – in which she states that, in any case, the calculation of the number of troops that the security forces have to have in Euskadi is the exclusive competence of the State, and it is therefore up to the Government of the nation or the Administration of the State to determine which are its troops. I believe that this also resolves a common demagogy in this House, which also wants to underestimate the competences that other bodies, which now have to function perfectly coordinated with the Ertzaintza, carry out here in defence of our security. And it seems to me that that too, therefore, by not falling into that demagogy, in that search for confrontation, rupture or conflict, will result in the good of all. And I think that people in general, the street, what they want is to be protected, and therefore, as you know that that has to be done from the intelligence, they also appreciate this effort being made. So you see how happy I am. But then I thought, given that this is so, and that with this we are moving forward, and with other relationships that we have entered into, and this legislature seems to be going well... I read the statements of my former colleague and spokesman in the Parliament in Madrid, Aitor Esteban, in which he said that they did not participate in the anti-jihadist pact because they did not allow them to participate in the information and because they had problems with the replacement rate. With those reasons gone, do you not think that your parliamentary group in Madrid should join the pact?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u28	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. In answer, Sire, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Alonso, whatever the Basque Group has to do in the courts will be decided by the Basque Nationalist Party. It is up to me to answer for what government action is from my responsibility as lehendakari. In any case, and also commending your intervention in terms of highlighting coordination, I would like to say that my commitment to political coordination is permanent. That I am and we are also aware, in what is our area of government responsibility, of our minority position not only in this legislature, but from the first day of the previous legislature. Moreover, that provision for political coordination is felt; felt the need to keep open the channel of dialogue and coordination with all parliamentary groups in this House and with the institutions. Mr Alonso, I am starting from one consideration, and it is that coordination is to carry out in tune a common action, which is not to impose. I therefore advocate institutional political coordination between the Basque Government and the rest of the institutions, and also with the Spanish Government. To coordinate for me is also the consequence of the will, the willingness to collaborate, and always from respect for the capacity and competence of everyone. Coordination is the last stage; I believe that it is necessary to comply with what has been agreed. Political coordination, as you said, has been bearing fruit, and has borne fruit in self-government. For me too, the quota agreement, which must be approved in the courts, is relevant. The agreement in the Security Board also, to which you have referred, to renew the Ertzaintza and to affirm its integral and international character. And now we also have the challenge of moving forward, on the other hand, as far as we are concerned, in the presentation of self-government, through the agreement-agreement model. And this is also political coordination, Mr Alonso, and I would also like to ask you, between the Basque Government and Parliament, for example, at the service of the country. And I hope that this will was also in the Spanish institutional political context. Between coordination and collaboration, I would like to invite you, Mr Alonso, in this climate which you stress, to think that we have the challenge of consolidating the normalization of coexistence, that we have made progress, that ETA is already an unarmed organisation, and that we have demanded a state policy for peace. And a good sign would be your incorporation, that of the People's Party, into the parliamentary presentation, Mr Alonso. With voluntary political absence, there is no possible political coordination in all terms. This is the invitation I make to you, too. In the same way that you give me an invitation to move the Basque Group to the General Courts of the State, this is the invitation I make to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u31	Lehendakari, you should have a closer relationship with your parliamentary group in Madrid, lest they negotiate the budgets behind your back. I suppose something that has to do with that and the rest, and therefore act. Talk to them, join the anti-jihadist pact, because that will be very good for the Basques as a whole.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u32	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Alonso, the anti-jihadist pact for us is to manage it here, in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, from what is the collaboration of the Ertzaintza in participation in the CITCO; work that already the Ertzaintza, before participating in the CITCO, and also what may be its participation in the international sphere, the Ertzaintza and the Department of Security are addressing from here, from our area of competence. And this is a work that the Department of Security is doing with the Islamist communities, also with the entities that work in these areas, in what is our area of territory of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. Joining the anti-jihadist pact in the Spanish state we will do so from what is our collaboration, from the Ertzaintza and the Department of Security, in all this matter in our area of competence, there is no doubt. You have said what have been the relevant concerns that exist for me, and challenges that Ertzaintza has: the issue of jihadist terrorism and cybersecurity. I'll ratify it. From our area of competence we will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "The Internation, which belongs to the President, the member of the World Series of Maddalen Irina, the plans for the recent months that come in Catalan." Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u35	Mrs. President, Congressman, good morning. Government chief, Mr. President, good morning. The world is looking at Katalunia. 107 days remain for October 1, and President Puigdemont has announced that the referendum, whether the citizens of Catalonia want to constitute an independent republic or not a referendum. In the capitals of Europe, in America, in Asia, there is great attention, and there is nothing but the echo of the predictions of the government of Catalonia. In this parliament we didn't want to complete a specialized crew on Catalunia, but other governments are working, other groups are working, and therefore, because this causes attention and curiosity, I'd like to ask you what the scenes are, how the Basques who live in the Catalonia are to protect them as far as this mad joke, that's what they're doing, that's what they're doing, that's what they're doing in Catalan, that's what's going to happen, because they're doing their rights on the stage, and that's what they're supposed to be doing to live in, and that's what they's going to do, because it's what's going to do. In the course of the last few days, the Washington Post paper in his opinion has cleared up the debate about Catalonia, and it has called me a attention, well, because it has given me a little envy in the nation where the conflict took place, apart from its attention. And he has also given me a reflection that the United States had proclaimed independence one day, and that they had been indulgenced; otherwise they would still be subditos of the Queen of England. Or maybe President Woodrow Wilson hasn't forgotten the 20th. what has been said at the beginning of the century, namely, that countries have the right of self-determination. We too have it, and we cannot forget that it has been admitted in this legislature more than once. The Basque Country has been fully protected by the institutions of Catalonia and its popular movement and its movement, as well as by the future, and from now on. Our whole refuge is also intended to referendum, because it is the best way to remedy any political conflict that can be made by the people. But I can't deny it, Mr. Urkullu, that the manner in which the Spanish Government is capable is concerned is a terrible concern to us. I will say this in no uncertain terms: I believe it is our duty to bring all our support to the people of Catalonia and its legitimate institutions at a key moment in their history, when the authoritarian drift of the Spanish State seems to be preparing all its machinery to run over and pass over the democratic rights of Catalonia. Intervention or dissolution of Catalan institutions, disqualifications, or who knows if other major measures, use of force or not, we do not know what the Spanish Government refers to when it says it is willing to do anything, to be willing to do anything to avoid a referendum. But in any case, none of these measures would surprise us. The Catalonian Parliament is working these days on the committee of inquiry which seeks to clarify what is hidden behind the so-called Catalonian Operation, and absolutely scandalous facts are emerging, which in any minimally democratic European country would have meant the immediate fall of the government in office. That's not what happens in Spain. He was proud of having ruined the medical system of Catalonia by saying that he has money in Switzerland by the false police report made by the mayor of Barcelon, without officers' permission to go to Barceo, by the police station, by the dispensive politicians, and by the opposition of the police, by charges against the invasion of the world, by the opposition of the police, by the opposition of the police, and by the opposition of the rest of the world, by the fact that he has taken the money in Switzerland. It would even look like a Torrete movie that we're actually seeing, really interesting, and if we thought it wasn't very dangerous. The journalists and judges who have been at the parliamental committee, the journalists and judges who have been in the Parliament, have no doubt: it's a highly organized police intervention that's all exposed to a political police officer. Sánz de Santamaría and Rajoy are summoned to this committee, but they won't go, showing how much they care about the people, because they only defend the unnecessary population when it suits them. The decisions which the Spanish Congress has made are often rejected (Franco's tomb, Valle de los Caídos, Minister Cataá, the Fiscal General of Spain... ), and the Constitution of Spain, which they pretend to respect so much, is by accepting the Amnesty, which is directly incontinential, and so on. We know them well in the Basque Country, and it doesn't surprise us, but we know they're able to defend their interests, and I'm talking about Party Populula, Mr. Urkullu, I'm talking about Partdu Popular. From Pep Guardio's mouth, Assamblea Nacinal Cata jobs, edamnium Cultural (the organization of independent townships of the United States) has demanded protection from a government which tells the world to become a democracy, and we believe that, as we are afraid of the fact that, in the first moment, the Chinese State is ready to do everything. Because we know history, and history teaches us that justice and rights remain in a secondary degree and leave everything in a second grade. In this parliament there was a great deal of light in the eyes of Atucha, Knör, and Mr. and Mrs. Bilbao. The European courts have recently been told that the trial was not fair, they were obliged to say that they had not been able to defend it. I dare say that the courts of Spain have once more been stripped. In that sense, I have thought it strange that what Mr. Atucha has said ("manipulación, atroello brutal; hacer tentillarse a una institentian, el Parlamento Vasco, nacida de la voluntad del peblo"). That's right. That's what I'm talking about. And outside this Parliament, what can I say? It's what seems to me to be, in the institutions of the prison, in the obstacles, and in the institutions of Catalonia, and in the eyes of the people. And that's why, Mr. Urkullu, members of the government, the Basque Country, the Basque Country would like to know what's going to be the state of the Euskeleon, the Rerendum, if yes wins, if they declare independence. I mean, we'd like to know what's going to be the new state, but we'd like to know what's going to happen before everybody that could happen, what's different from Spain, the catastrophist or less catastrophist, what's going to be the size or attitude that's going to be or what's going to happen. There is no democratic interlocutor, no double-sided schema. Catalonia is at stake, but it is obvious that the democracy of Spain is also in play. He's at stake now, and we think he's very happy to play. They are now showing the more and more clear, moreover, the democratic privations of the transitions which had been regarded as so exemplary. And consequently the future of the Basque People is at stake, as well as our social rights and our future as our country. That's why we think we should respond to Catalonia as a village. It's only 107 days, but we can't deny that a lot of things will happen between us. "We are always with Catalonia," said President Aguirre. We think it's time to keep our word, to act like a country. And when it's time to act like a village, I'll tell you again, Mr. Urkullu: The Basque People have held out the hand of the Collectors to be in the presence of the people of Catalonia as a people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't know whether you already know what measures the Spanish Government will take, at least I don't know. And I don't even know how the government of Catalonia has thought of organizing the referendum announced on October 1st. I shall therefore act wisely and reverently, and I shall not speculate. How many times have I spoken of this matter (with respect, with respect) about it, on the subject of Catalonia, even in this legislature? And the greatest benefit we can do to Catalonia, is to examine it with strict respect, based on our reality and respect for each of them. And I'd ask for the same thing and I'd appreciate it, and I'd have been thankful for it until now from the others to ourselves, because we could talk a lot in this sense. So it's important to remind you of some basic ideas. One, Spanish State 2000. from year to year a wave of centralization was launched, a second LOAPA, we may say. Two, the objects which the citizens of Catalonia may have, may be legitimate, and still more confirmed, from the hands of the institutions. Three of them have been systematicized by the organizations of Catalonia. Four, the sentence of the Constitution of the Court doubted an institution confirmed by the people of Catalonia. Five, this verdict has its origin in PP's party impulse. We're asking for this with wisdom, respect, and severity. One, we are demanding that the state accept its reality in a nation. Two, we're asking you to meet a second transition that will reach the subject of the territory. Three, we're asking for a new life condition. In order to get these targets, the interview will always be necessary. It is also indispensable to the attention of the nations which are inherent in the state. We defend interview and political agreement to solve a political problem. It is proper to examine their condition in Catalonia by roots, roots, history, knowledge, and depth; One, the Institutions of Catalonia agreed to change the state, though the foundation of this change was in a certain political agreement, namely, the President of the Spanish Government, Rodríguez, Zapters, and the President of the Generall Margallill, agreed to accept what President Artur Mas also accepted. Two, they did this with the conviction that the decisions they had made would be respected. Three, the institutions of Catalonia, including the "cepillado" given by the principal court to their proposal. Four, the people of Catalonia confirmed this state by their own vote. Five, however, was put by the Poptular party to appeal to him. Six, the Constitution Court abolished important parts. Seven, the Spanish Government or the governments have not allowed any other requests to be submitted to by the Government of Catalonia. All this has happened, but I don't know what will happen anymore and what will become of your position. In any case, I am going to continue with respect to the immediate development of the situation. Even if this were to be fulfilled, the delegates of Catalonia and the Spanish provinces will have to speak, that's what we're sure of. We know also what has happened here, how did your political party answer here, when the path of the new state was placed on the table, looking contemptuously and indifferently at the proposals made, considering your support wisely, that the juror is not here at the time juror; he was in the assembly of the legislature, criticizing the political authorities whom you now call supported, and the President Ibarche, as well as the President Atucha, the President, and the President Aguirre; and what else has happened to us after the generation of the President Agour in history? But we're not looking back, we're looking forward. Yes, we have a chance to proceed from the agreement in this legislature, and we have formed a band of auto-generacy. This is our only chance of conducting this political matter from agreement and political agreement. You go to a check cap, you come with a check cap, you always ask me the same questions. I'm not going to repeat the same thing to you, but I'll tell you the most important of all that I've said. One, we're not born today, we're not born today. You have now reached the legislature, but a lot of representatives have done a lot of work before you. To get all the tools and all the hands you need to satisfy the needs of the citizen was the purpose of making you happy. That's what we're going on in the Basque organization. Now come this way, and if it is so, it will be easier for us to get the tools and gloves we need. One, so we're not born today. Two, the eupscal road does not start from zero; you are looking at Catalonia, but you have your eyes here, the future and the past. We have explained our purpose clearly; Auto-response update. Our aim is to defend Basque self-government in the face of the re-centralizing spirit of the State, to demand the self-government that we have already recognized, to demand the transfer of the outstanding instruments and competences, to demand bilaterality, to defend the principle of nationality. Basque self-government is unique, and the future is open; it is possible to move forward from respect for the democratic principle and the principle of legality. This is a structuring issue for Basque society, and therefore demands the work and attention we are giving it in the self-government presentation. We all participate in this presentation, and we know that, given the relevance of the issue, we must reach a comprehensive and solid agreement, if possible among all, and, if not, among a broad majority. This is, of course, our aspiration. For this purpose it is essential that the most extensive consent of the several is necessary. We are here to obtain a new political pact which will support a large majority of the Basques. One, then, is not born to-day; two, the euscal road does not start from zero; and three, the agreement is necessary and possible. Before this new challenge, at least from us, we introduced our project by writing. There are many reasons we have offered to advance by agreement, and I will mention these many reasons. On the basis of democratic principles, to acknowledge the capacity of our fellow-citizens, to acknowledge the social form, the national personality, to be questioned, and to be respected in a democratic manner, to form the claim of right-in-law, to form a system of mutual relations, to promote relations with Navarre and the North, to acknowledge the capacity of representation between the nation, to give it an adequate legislative to the community, to update the economic concert, to meet the question of the business of the citizens. Take a look at this score of points, offer your contribution, and let's settle the way to get ahead of you. But don't go back to "all or nothing." After all, in the past four decades you've seen that this road leads anywhere or leads nowhere. We have a chance to move forward when we build our country, a new opportunity. We have a choice to propose and agree a great deal and a great deal. My purpose is to obtain an exemplary arrangement from this institution, and propose it to society, which is a firm foundation to continue building my country day by day. And you're talking about Catalonia coming back to Catalonia. To conclude, and, as I have said at first, we are proceeding with complete prudence the development of the state of Catalonia. I'll have a meeting next Monday at Barcelona with the President of Generality, Mr. Puigdemont. In this meeting we will show our respect; we have many reasons to express it, in short, we propose a change of the model of the state's country. The purpose is to accept and confess the national character of Euskadi and Catalonia. So, next Monday, yes, I will hold a meeting with President Puigdemont in Barcelona. We will have an opportunity to talk about the current political situation in the State. We have previously shared the need to provide a political solution to the demands of a political nature that arise in a state that must assume its own plurinational reality. So, Mrs. Irryrez, we are not born today, the euscal road does not start from zero, the agreement is necessary and possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Madame Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u39	I wasn't born today, and I was born yesterday, or more or less like you, Mr. Urkullu. I'm grateful for your treat, but I've asked you about Catalonia and you haven't answered me about Catalonia. In that sense, your answer hasn't explained things to me. I feel like it's time to decide how this is going to play like a autonomy government or the government of a town. And this I say in the United Kingdom, in Switzerland, in the Low Countries, in Estonia, in Russia, in the United States, in China, in Israel, in parliaments, and other groups, which will occur in the months following in Catalonia. I think they'll be respectful, too, and I think they'll understand what's going on. In the midst of these countries I have mentioned, you will have noticed that there are five fixed members of the United Nations Council of Security. But what's happened is that this fun will have to decide for a moment, that it'll have to decide which side to take, or put it on behalf of Spain, or with all due respect and prudence, but it'll have to decide whether it'll be for one or the other. If you're going to meet President Puigdemont, apart from your approvals, there'll be a moment when it's time for you to come. And that's what I'm asking you, and I'm asking you what you'll do on the stage before. That's all. I'm going to favor independence. What are you and your government going to do? That's what you're going to decide between the stroke that Spain can put into. For I have said already, in the last few days, that the economic and mediatic powers of Spain have been using changing tactics. They have passed through the tremism and the collapse of the state, the assaults and so on against democracy, now into indifference. To indifference and contempt: they say that there are less independence of Catalonia, or at least those who wish to inquire about their future have no strength... There's another thing about your government, and it's a deal with Populous Party, and tactics are a discussion for another day, just as we're going to make or do in the Autogobernu Poncia, I've come to ask you about Katalunia, but in that agreement you've become either willing or unwilling to do things like the leading man or not. That's what Spain has spread. That's the way it's supposed to be. And I'd like to know how it's supposed to be done, or how's it supposed to be done, if he sees President Forcadell and many deputies in the next few days, how he's supposed to do it if President Puigdemont's been removed from his post or if the General is dissolved, or if they leave him to the police or his education in Spain. It's just things that can happen. It's just things that wouldn't surprise us. At least I wouldn't be surprised to see these things, and that's what I'd like to know. It would seem very serious to me that this would happen and that we could not give an answer as a country. And I think that if all the other nations I have spoken of are already working, and are working on their answers, we ought to be as a people as well as a people, provided something is prepared and something in the way. I'm telling you again. The hand of the collected EH, now born, first born, and then of those that had happened in the past, is now now now the present, and we are going to be working for the new state of Autogonia, and now what I ask of you is how we will answer when this happens in Catalonia. That's just it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u41	Madam of the Parliament, thank you. The hypothesis, the hypothesis, the hypothesis, the hypothesis. So I'd like it if it had been with us before, even if it had been with us. On the other hand, it's very good for independence. In favor of independence, the principles of the Jestric Party are clearly established. 21st How to develop these foundations in the world is a different matter. And what are the grounds of the parties in the Catalonia, and what may be the chances, will be seen. I see you defend the one-sidedness of this independence plan. You didn't mention it, but by making it an example of Catalonia, you plan the one-sidedness as well as the Basques. And besides, I think you've defended him fiercely and hard without mentioning it. Well, what happened this week? You mentioned it. Tekatically the Jalt Party, the Popular Party-well, I'm going to take the tactical tactics of the EH Collectors. What happened this week? And I'll tell you: Monday Podemos, the one-sided referendum of Catallunia, has defended itself. Then they came to the side of the referendum, which might have been guaranteed. Tuesday, the Podemus party has presented his government program for Spain at the Courts of Madrid. There's no suggestion in this program for a single-sided referendum. On Wednesday, on the following day, EH Collectorre, Mrs. Iriart, not only against Rajoy, but for that government program introduced by the Podemos. So it would be a question, Mrs. Irart, that EH Collect has accepted a government program that doesn't receive a single-sided referendum in Katalunia. When you have some of the flexes you use for others, it will be easier to advance for all of you. I repeat, Mrs. Irriart, we have an opportunity we've never had before. Coming up all the way up in the Euskula. The other, by hypothesis, and by prudence, and reverence, may be allowed to dispute between all political traditions of eussa, and to agree to a new political tribunal for our people. Politics derives its highest degree of difference from the different chances, when they decide to abandon the differences, and to favor a common end. The state of Guernica has helped to improve our co-existence and well-being, but it is still intact, and we make a critical diagnosis of the present state, because the state has not been fulfilled and others are trying to put it into a debalt. It is necessary for the auto-gourage to-day, and we must now adapt ourselves to the new reality of Europe and of the Basque Lands. With this we must resume the standard of the country of the State, in order that it may accept its plurination, and consequently that of Catalonia. Our object is to promote the treaty of our political state, established in the following columns: this is what we offer in mutual confession to Catalonia, and also in the evidence of the ecstacy of each other. Our historical rights, if protected, respected, and today, can be given a lot. We need a new pact. It is essential to accept the plurination of the state's religious reality and to give it the rank which the Basque Government and the Euccanic Government wish to give. And this would also be useful to Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "Interra, José Ramone Becerra Carollo, members of the Podemos team, made to the head of the economics and the sub-governed department, to the impact of the southern railway channel, and the consecration of certain other railway structures." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. Mrs. Tapia, the president, good morning. The southern railway variant is an infrastructure that was raised more than twenty years ago, Mrs Tapia, which has suffered various delays and modifications throughout this time. Its objective was to speed up the departure of goods by rail from the port of Bilbao, through an alternative route to that of the current rail network of Adif, in order to avoid the transit of convoys through the urban cores of Ezkerraldea and Mehatzaldea. From this point of view, there is no doubt that the southern variant is an interesting infrastructure for two reasons: one, because, as I said, it prevents the transit of freight convoys through the centre of urban centres, with the consequent reduction of nuisances, noise and risks associated with the transport of dangerous goods, and the other because it allows the transfer of goods from road to rail, which must be a trend that must become one of the pillars of the fight against climate change in the field of transport. However, the project presented in 2015 by the Ministry of Development suffered, on the one hand, from a significant lack of information to the citizenry, and raised a huge number of complaints and allegations about the social and environmental impacts it entailed. Last March you, on behalf of the Basque Government, announced an agreement with the central government to resume the works of the aforementioned infrastructure, which would be carried out in two phases: on the one hand phase I, Santurtzi-Olabeaga, and on the other the second, until Basauri. Subsequently, on 23 May, the Basque Governing Council approved the signing of the agreement with the Government of Spain for the construction of the above-mentioned phase I, the financing of which will be assumed by the Basque Government and settled under the quota. Now, before the signing of the above-mentioned convention, from Elkarrekin We have asked for your appearance because the project raises various questions and unknowns that we believe are important and for which I wanted to ask you. With regard to administrative processing, the project submitted by the Central Government in 2015, as I have told you, raised a large number of complaints and allegations that have not yet been answered by the Ministry of Development. Then, in that sense, it seems logical that someone – I don't know whether the Basque Government or the ministry itself –... who does not return to the works without having given an adequate answer and solution to these demands of the citizenry; who not only presented them to civil society, but also to the institutions of the Left Margin. On the other hand, it does not seem reasonable that the agreement with the Government of Spain should be signed without having previously made an assessment of the improvements and changes that would need to be made in order to minimize the social and environmental impact of the infrastructure. From Elkarrekin We can, of course, defend the right of citizens affected by the infrastructure to have a satisfactory response to their demands for information and their complaints and allegations, because, as I said, they were not only presented by individuals, but by associations and entities of civil society, and also by a large number of local administrations. In this regard, it may be said that you have had a meeting with the mayors of the municipalities concerned in the past few months, but from that meeting you barely transcended information other than on the financing of the project, not so much on the final layout of the southern variant, nor on the details of the project. In any case, whatever the final route, from Elkarrekin We can argue that the social and environmental impact is obviously the least possible, and that the demands and allegations presented in its day be met. And that efforts should also be made to encourage neighbourhood and social participation in the search for solutions. And in that regard I wanted to ask you, of course, whether it will be your department that responds to the complaints and allegations made in your day, and whether you can tell us whether they will take the necessary measures to reduce the aforementioned social and environmental impact before the signing of the convention. Because if I focus on the social and environmental impact, well, it is obvious that most of the impacts occur in the municipality of Barakaldo, which is the stretch where the southern variant flows to the open sky. But, apart from these social and environmental impacts, there is a different impact, which is the impact that brings or will induce the southern variant when it comes into operation, in those sections where Adif's railway network is not buried today. Why? For, according to the project presented in 2015 by the ministry, the entry into operation of phase I of the southern variant will entail a considerable increase in the traffic of goods, estimated in an increase from nineteen trains daily to seventy-two, in both directions of circulation. Of course, this increase in rail traffic is going to be a very serious problem in those sections that run outdoors in neighborhoods of Bilbao such as Olabeaga and La Peña or Abusu, but also in the entire municipal term of Basauri from El Calero to Uriarte. We know that for the specific case of Olabeaga you have negotiated with the Mayor of Bilbao – once again, the privileges of the offices – the installation of a false tunnel on the Adif line as you pass through Olabeaga, as I say. That solution does not seem to us wrong, if it is true, if it were not because it is accompanied by a lack of response to all the other mayors of the region and to all the institutions of the region, which have not received the same treatment as Bilbao. But at this point we are also going to do an exercise of responsibility, which you do not usually recognize as an opposition, and we want to propose an alternative to it. And it is the possibility of solving the problem that will be raised on that C-3 line through the use, as an alternative, of the tunnel of access of the Basque Y to the municipality of Bilbao. We believe that this would prevent the transit of convoys of goods to the open air through the vicinity of the urban centers between La Peña and Basauri, which is really what the southern variant intended to do in its day for the Left Margin. We believe from Elkarrekin, sincerely, that this alternative could be feasible if the Basque Y access tunnel were connected to Bilbao at both ends: on the one hand by the Cantalojas tunnel, and on the other hand by the Zaratamo viaduct. If the connection with the equipment with a third thread of the Basque Y tunnel is also accompanied, it would allow the transit of convoys of goods of Iberian and European width inside, and that would mean – and this is really important – that the southern variant would be connected not only with the railway network of Adif, but also with that of the Basque Y, and that such connectivity would allow us to take the goods by both tracks, on the one hand to Europe, through the Basque Y, and on the other hand to the peninsula, through the railway network of Adif. In short, the position of Elkarrekin Podemos in front of the southern railway variant is of critical support, supported by three pillars. One, which is evident the need to avoid the passage of freight convoys through urban cores, but through all urban cores, not just those of the Left Margin. Two, that must be achieved at all costs that the social and environmental impact of the infrastructure is the least possible, especially in the municipality of Barakaldo, which is where it is greatest. Thirdly, it is necessary to ensure that the new infrastructure complements the two infrastructures which are intended to have (one already exists, which is Adif's), so that its economic and social viability can be fully justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u44	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. The Chief of Investigation and the congressmen, good morning to all. First of all, Mr. Becerra, I must thank you for your constructive attitude about this infrastructure, and I think before you answer so many questions, I think it's good also to examine the general information. As you were saying, we signed a protocol in March, and then we agreed to make a treaty between the two governments, these two councils, which will bring him to sign the contract and do all the works that are in it. The port of Bilbo is on the different paths (that is to say, European width and Spanish) to agree to a substructure that binds it to, and so to carry it forward, as you would say, in order to be able to carry it on, is on the table for 20 years ago that harquebus this project has finally come to pass, and that is our goal. In this substructure, moreover, we get two themes which you mentioned: On the one hand, the greater power of raising merchandise to the port of Bilbo, is to increase his zeal; and on the other hand, to bring a benefit to many nations on the left. Why? Now, because it's more and more trains that go by, and, of course, noise and trouble are more and more. And in the future, as you mentioned, it's a substructure that connects with the train that connects us with Europe, to a high-speed train or whatever it is. In other words, the southern railway variant has as its objective, of course, to improve the competitiveness of the port of Bilbao, trying to improve the situation of departure of goods by rail, so that, as you said, we try to pass a lot of that traffic that we have on our roads towards rail transport, which today is far from being competitive. And, on the other hand, eliminate the circulation of those goods from the cores of Ezkerraldea. Today, more and more, the frequency of these trains makes the discomforts that are generated for so many people almost unsustainable. In addition, it will be part of a future connection with high speed, and therefore will enable the port of Bilbao to be connected in two widths, in Iberian width and in European width. Given the size of the infrastructure, we were talking about running it in two phases, as you said. First of all, let us take out, let us say, or execute the road between Santurtzi and Bilbao, so that the next phase would be the one from Barakaldo to Bilbao, to Basauri and Arrigorriaga. What's the main problem, as you said? That by running it in two phases it is true that Barakaldo remains for a second phase. And the traffics you were talking about, of course, are the maximum traffics when the complete work is executed, also the second phase of the work. What does that mean? That at certain times, when a first phase is carried out, and in the meantime the second phase is over, the damage that we can do in the municipality of Barakaldo will obviously have to be reconciled, since rail traffic will be increased. And in that I agree with you, that we will have to treat it very well in the meantime the second of the phases will not end. We said, we have to modify, as you also said, the information study that the ministry formulated in 2015, because the vast majority of the allegations that have been made, both by private citizens and by different institutions and associations, have not been answered, and what we want – and this is reflected both in the protocol and in the convention – is the drafting of a new information study that collects these allegations, that answers them and collects them, and that a new phase is also opened with that new information study that allows us to make allegations again and that is as transparent as possible with all citizens. It is an informative study that we will develop, respond to and implement jointly with the State. It's covered in protocol. Therefore, it is not only that we are going to respond to the allegations of the 2015 information study, but that, by collecting much of the allegations – and that is what we communicated to the municipalities when we had that meeting – a new information study will be implemented, which will be brought to public attention again, so that we will perform the work in the most transparent way possible, and take into account all those allegations and some others that may arise. That's the will. In addition, environmental conditions will be collected, as it cannot be otherwise, and social also, in the corresponding environmental impact study, which will then be informed by the Ministry of the Environment. We also know that this report has the nature of a mandatory and also binding report, and that it will determine whether or not to implement environmentally (in the environmental part, I mean) in a certain way the future constructive project, the conditions under which it must be developed, the conditions to which it will have to respond, and whether it will have to act with corrective measures and even compensatory measures. Well, that's the usual way to do it, but right now we're already working, advancing what this environmental impact study can be, addressing all those concerns that were presented by administrations and citizens in general, presented to the previous information study, so that, as it can't be otherwise neither, we want to minimize the conditions of this infrastructure as far as possible. We also said that it will improve the lives of more than 200,000 citizens throughout this area, and that it will also improve the socio-economic development of the country. In the collaboration agreement – you know it – there is a first phase between the Serantes tunnel and Olabeaga. It is a work that is approximately 400 million euros (460 million euros) in relation to the infrastructure, which will be the one that will be executed according to what we are doing at the moment with the Basque Y in the Gipuzcoan section; that is, it will be executed by the Basque Government with a management commission that is in the agreement, and from there it will be discounted from the quota. In addition, the drafting of the constructive project is also in the hands of the Basque Government in this case, and is more than €7 million, taking into account the environmental impact study and so on. We anticipate that it would be completed around 2022, and from there the superstructure will have to be executed, which, as in the case of the Basque Y, remains in the hands of the State. From the second phase, Barakaldo-Basauri, which really is the one that affects the municipality of Barakaldo, as you said, since it is a very long work and the agreements of collaboration we cannot take them to such long stages, the only thing that is collected is the execution of an informative study, where, of course, we will take into consideration all those aspects that you mentioned, and, of course, the proposal for improvement that you provided will also be analysed, why not. And we are going to try to find with this informative study, exactly the same as in the first phase, the best of the works for citizens and for goods, that fulfills both objectives. In short, it is a railway infrastructure that we consider strategic for the future of Euskadi, which is long overdue, which we intend to advance using the route of the quota, the route of the convention and the quota, and which, of course, we are aware that it is an infrastructure that runs through a very densely populated area and that it also has to serve a port that, if it has most of its traffic of goods on our roads, has to make the transit to the railway. It is a very important milestone that this infrastructure can be launched, and I would also like to insist that it will have both widths, that is, both European and Iberian widths, and that it will allow the transit of goods both to Europe and to the peninsula to be perfectly guaranteed under better conditions than the current ones. And, of course, we will try to address all those claims of those citizens who live in this area and those who, in one way or another, will also affect this infrastructure. Therefore, I certainly accept and... well, I accept and will also try to analyse the proposal you make to us. We are going to work on this informational study of the second phase too – which is much more delayed than the first, I would also like to point out – and we are going to try to do the best we can, as long as we approach an infrastructure of these dimensions and characteristics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u47	Well, as far as administrative processing is concerned, I have been reassured by the fact that they do recognize that the 2015 information study presented a number of gaps, generated many complaints and allegations, and it is obviously good news to know that it is going to be reformulated and that it will at least be possible to try to meet those demands. And you told me about doing the environmental impact study to look for an alternative that could involve corrective or compensatory measures. I would ask you to go one step further and try to make a participatory process, especially in the municipality of Barakaldo, which is the most affected, so that the corrective and compensatory measures are the least possible, especially the compensatory ones. You said, and I think wrongly, that the impacts on Barakaldo occur with Phase II. The main impacts will occur with Phase I. So, I think it's very important the study that can be done now, because that's where we have to deal with it. For an idea to be made, the impacts right now, according to the 2015 Ministry of Development study, were that the route passes, for example, below the lindane cell of Argalario, with the problems that this could entail of stability of the cell. That a viaduct is going to cross over the neighborhood of Gorostiza, just seven meters high from the houses (get an idea that that is the first step of this room), and by a viaduct of that type is going to circulate a train of 1,200 tons of goods. And that's a very big impact, because also in the neighborhood of Gorostiza would leave the neighborhood in half. And in the same sportsmanship of Gorostiza there was an electric substation. And at the exit of the Zubileta neighborhood to Olabeaga the infrastructure affected several hamlets considered as cultural heritage. I mean, the impacts on phase I were important, and I'm glad to hear that at least that issue is going to be reconsidered. With regard to what you said about Phase II, the concern we have is that, once phase I is reached, which has a very important cost (because 460 million is a very important cost), the risk that exists, and I think it is a real risk, is that Phase II will be postponed indefinitely. Why? Because it also has a very large combined cost, and because the same complexity of Phase I will cause the delay of Phase II. So, you say, "Well, the impact on the circulation of goods in the municipality of Basauri, in the neighborhood of La Peña and so on will occur when phase II is in progress." I do not agree with you in that consideration, because the maximum traffics that the infrastructure will host will depend on the economic activity of the port; then, obviously, the seventy-six and so many convoys will depend on whether the port exports more or less goods, not whether we have built phase I or phase II. So, if we are not sure when phase II will be built, and if there is no possibility, by budgets, that phase II will go in parallel with phase I, we run the risk that there will be municipalities, in this sense, of second, and others of first. Because Basauri, La Peña or Abusu are going to suffer, they are going to continue to suffer the transfer of goods outdoors for many years. So, I'm also glad that they think that one of the possibilities might be to use the Basque Y tunnel. I believe that, without having all the technical knowledge, it would be a possibility, and I also believe that this possibility, even well raised, could save Phase II. You know that we are very critical with the Basque Y, we consider that it is an unnecessary infrastructure and is also an infrastructure that will hardly host trains during your day to day. So the only way to make it socially and environmentally profitable is to give it a use for the transport of goods, which is what we have defended from Elkarrekin Podemos forever, since the election campaign. So, I invite you to really look at it, because saving us a phase II of the southern variant could be saving 200 million to the public treasury, and I think it is at least a matter to study. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u48	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u49	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mr Becerra, perhaps I have explained myself very badly, and indeed, as you mentioned, the critical moment is not going to be in phase II: phase I is going to be completed and while phase II is running, because that is where it is going to occur. Maybe I've given myself a very bad explanation, actually. That how many trains are going to pass will depend on the traffic of goods that takes place in the port of Bilbao? Well, yes, it's an obvious thing that will depend on that. But it will also depend on the services that whoever is operating those freight trains will be able to offer. Considering that there is sufficient traffic, and that the service is sufficient, the critical moment can be given at that time, that is true, and it will occur in those municipalities from which we have not yet taken the goods out of their center. That's clear. Secondly, the environmental impact statement, he said, will determine whether or not to... In principle we are not going to say whether it is going to proceed and whether it is going to say that there must be compensatory measures or corrective measures. You can say that, but we are going to try, as I said to you, that the information study collects most of the claims of citizens and institutions, both social and environmental, to make these measures, corrective if they have to be given and compensatory if they have to be given, to be as minimal as possible. Evidently. I believe that in any environmental impact study our goal is that. If at a certain point they have to be produced, then they are produced, analysed and reflected in the constructive project, but the ideal is not to have to apply them. I absolutely agree on that. I was also commenting that phase II can go unexecuted sine die, as a result of which it is not in this convention, but well, there is one element that leads us to say that we are going to execute and that there is a willingness to execute it by both parties. Why? Well, first of all we have the implementation part of the informational study, which we are going to start already, from the very moment when the phase I informational study is put into operation. And, secondly, the agreement – which is already agreed by the two institutions – states that the State Administration will assume the cost of the work of the superstructure of both phases: the Serantes tunnel, well, until it reaches from Serantes and Olabeaga, and the Barakaldo-Basauri section is also collected, for an amount in addition to the figure of 84.7 million euros. I mean, while the civil work still has to go through an informative study, it does make a prediction... Obviously, these numbers are always forecasts, until we start to execute them, but the will to execute the second tranche is collected as well. Therefore, we will try to seek, through this informative study, the best of the works, the best of the situations for the people who live in all that area between Barakaldo and Arrigorriaga, and to allow us both, by the way: search for the best way out for the goods and search for the best way out for the citizens. And I do want to remind you of one thing. That Basque Y always, from the moment it is planned, has always been considered and planned to collect mixed traffic. That has been a premise: travelers and goods. Then it is designed and executed (in terms of its earrings, curvatures, possibilities to carry freight traffic...), it is designed and is being executed so that it is possible. Then it's not something new that we're putting on the table. It was from the beginning of time. If anything we put in Euskadi on the table, it was that this infrastructure served the two actions. And, obviously, in the case of the southern variant, what we are trying to do is to run it in the best possible way, and that at a time it can also be connected with this infrastructure, that it allows us to leave for Europe and that it allows us to leave, both in Iberian width and in international UIC width, towards the Iberian Peninsula. That is the objective, and of course we will do everything possible to ensure that this process of informational studies is as transparent as possible, that it is done in the best possible way, that all allegations and environmental impact studies are collected, and, of course, that we respond to the two objectives of the infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The eighth point in the subject list: "Interrelation, made by María del Carmen lópez de Ocariz lópez, the members of the Basque Groups of the Worlds, made for the development of Economics, and the head physician of the Subjugations of the South Gastian tram." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Councilwoman, I am asking you on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party about the plan to extend the tram to the south of Vitoria. As we have already told you in committee, Counsellor, this project was carried out before launching the Vitoria Sustainable Mobility and Public Space Plan, without taking into account a prior integrated diagnosis, without taking into account the existing infrastructures at that time. This mobility plan abandons the idea of the tram to the south, and proposes high capacity buses for the east-west axis. Here, in this plan, we talk about the extension of the tram to the new areas, Salburua and Zabalgana. This project lacks citizen participation. The Sustainable Mobility and Public Space Plan agrees to establish channels of participation for the implementation of the public transport network, which this project lacks. It also proposes to set up a public transport commission, involving neighbouring associations to reach agreement on the public transport network, which have not been involved in this project. This plan makes a reality report, collects the uncertainty of the mobility model, as the EVA arrives and details are not known. Recommends that the tram extension mobility and the entrance of the AVE be dealt with together. This was said this week by the Association of Urban Cyclists of Vitoria. Neighbors demand connection with industrial polygons. This extension of the tramway does not solve this demand. Neighbors demand connection with HUA (the Txagorritxu consultations), which does not provide them with this tram. It leaves them far away, and they are much better off on line 8 of bus, which does bring them closer to the sanitary area. The university, the campus. The vast majority of people who go to the campus do not go by tram, and those who do from Parliament and Angulema stops, which in five minutes are in the university area. With the proposed enlargement it would take longer. Two hundred parking spaces are removed in the area. Perhaps the officials of Osakidetza would be interested? Well, it doesn't bring them any benefits either. Don't go on a tram. Therefore, Madam Counsellor, we are faced with a project not endorsed by any mobility report of the people of the area, a project not claimed by the neighbours of Adurza and San Cristóbal, a project that does not give alternatives to the mobility needs of the area, a project not claimed by the people going to the campus, a project not claimed by the workers of Osakidetza (in addition, angry because they eliminate the parking spaces). Madam Councilwoman, why is the Basque Government working to promote this project to extend the tramway to the south of Vitoria? It is something that has not yet been clarified in the Commission the other day, and today we hope that it will also be clarified. It's a counter project! Neighbors are not in favour, neighbours' associations are not in favour, Vitoria's citizenship is not in favour, which is now being informed of how it is going. This tram doesn't eliminate a single car from traffic on these streets. This tramway does not promote more sustainable urban mobility. This project does not have an environmental, social and health report, as requested by the municipal technicians of Vitoria. With this project, in the affected streets the sidewalks lose half the width, and three hundred trees are cut. Sometimes they tell us they're sick, sometimes they tell us they're going to transplant them, sometimes they tell us that, since they're very old, they don't do the functions anymore... Madam Counsellor, this project goes against what is approved in the Basque Chambers: in the City of Vitoria the pact of sustainable mobility and public space, the Green Infrastructure Strategy of Vitoria; the Basque Climate Change Strategy 2050 adopted in this Chamber, in which pedestrian mobility is promoted, expanding sidewalks, and the presence of trees and green areas in the urban area, as a regulatory element of climate comfort. We would move on, ladies and gentlemen, from a friendly street, where we can live together, for example a wooded area, and we would move on to the invasion of the tram, which has to coexist with the circulation of road traffic, because one car is not eliminated. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this does not logically convince the neighbours, because it has no common sense. And this whole procedure does not take into account the recently approved burial of the Renfe track. It says the Official College of Basque-Navarro Architects, and I'm going to show you another drawing, so... The red line is the underground, the blue line is that curve you make to take the tram to the south, which makes no sense that curve. It makes sense if it's to expand the Triana Bridge. And why do we have to go to the Triana Bridge? Why should we strengthen that bridge, a bridge that is artificial, made in its day to save the tracks? But if the tracks disappear, the bridge doesn't make sense! And I don't say that, says the Architects' College. I don't know! And if we ask the College of Engineers, so will the College of Engineers, because it's a filling. Yeah, it's a filling, and a filling that's forced to save the tracks. Therefore, counselor, says the College of Architects, "any decision affecting the tram must be subject to the project of undergrounding of the Madrid-Irun railway as it passes through Vitoria, as the resulting new urban step will substantially alter the connections between the current neighborhoods". You can see perfectly how you can pass through all these streets. It creates another completely different space. Counselor, I think the underground generates a very suitable corridor to implant a tram. For example, it is a proposal that connects in a straight line several areas of the city, from Salburua to Zabalgana, passing through the center, without causing these negative impacts that this project causes. This project must comply with the specific rules on railways, Law 38/2015, and which also contains the Railway Sector Regulations. And this is recognized by the Basque Government in its resolution of March 2016, which submits to public information the informative study, and recognizes it by the City of Vitoria in the decree of 4 May, to modify the General Plan of Urban Planning of Vitoria. Because this project, which has 1,400 meters, needs to modify the General Urban Planning Plan, which you say, counselor, is a simple administrative procedure. Here there will be councillors, ex-councillors, mayors, ex-councils... we all know how hard it is to modify a general plan. It doesn't change... it's not just an administrative procedure. But you need to modify three PERI! Three, not one: three. This makes the changes important. I can tell you that the last modification of the square of Santa Barbara took two years at the City Hall of Vitoria. You have also sought formulas to make it faster, but it is the circumstance that you are going to start the work without having the general modified plan. And this has never been seen. You're going to create an impressive precedent. Because how many projects are there waiting for changes to be made to the general plans for urban centres in towns and cities? But how many!Is that what you're talking about? And years go by until the city council has the courage to go in and modify, because it's always a very complicated melon. Counselor, I think this deserves a reconsideration and we think a little bit of common sense... This flight forward that you manifest surprises us, because we consider you a trained and informed person, and we believe this requires thinking. If the schools of architects say you have to study it with the underground, if the associations of neighbors, the neighbors, if the mobility plan says you have to study it together with the underground project, why not expect that? What's the point, Counselor? We'd like you to explain. In April 2017 you, the Basque Government, decided to submit to public information the beginning of expropriation. In June 2017 Eusko Trenbide Sarea, without ending the period of allegations and expropriations, bid the works of the project. Without having started, without having been approved in the City Council of Vitoria to modify the general plan. Amazing, really. And where is the approval of the constructive project? Do you have the resolution? I know you asked for it and you didn't bring it. Madam Councilwoman, it is surprising that the Government has precipitated the process of this project. It is surprising that, without initiating the process of modifying the general plan, expropriations are initiated and works are licensed. And then another thing: the distances of security, counselor, does it seem normal that there is a metro between the platform, between the street that occupies the tram and the houses? One meter! Do you think you can make a living on a street within a meter? Counselor, there are many things to reconsider in this matter.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u52	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u53	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs López de Ocariz, I am really surprised that we are bringing back to this Parliament, in less than a week, exactly the same thing twice. Last Monday we were, I think I remember... well, I was two hours, I think you guys on the committee were four, because you were previously dealing with him with a neighborhood association. But, well, in any case we will repeat arguments, I understand, not to inform more, but to repeat ourselves. First of all, I would point out to you that, of course, we are going to take care of each other's competences. And don't tell me what the city council should do, what the city council's mobility plan is, how the municipality has to act... The municipality will act according to what its municipal plenary says, in response to what is considered, and they must agree as much as they sign the agreement to implement this action. And they don't just sign it, they finance it. Therefore, it does not seem that we are acting against the municipal will, but quite the contrary. Secondly, the actions taken, the agreements of the municipality of Gasteiz, speak of a number of things. As you say, they talk about the extension of the tram to Salburua and Zabalgana, they talk about the extension of the tram to the south, to the university area, and they talk about the execution of a fast electric bus, a fast electric bus line, a circular line called BRT, which will also have connection with this extension to the south in the university area. He picks up everything. Sometimes some municipal groups will give more priority to some of the actions or others, but all collected. And, of course, the Government is not acting against the municipal will, not even imposing a project that the municipal government does not want to implement. Having said that, you tell me that the neighbours, the associations of neighbours, are against it. Well, we know of a neighborhood association that has come here to Parliament and is against it, but, of course, I also want to remind you that this project has been submitted to information, there has been time, there has been work with the allegations... In some cases, as always in a project, they are accepted; in others not. And I also understand that the neighbours to whom they are directly affected at a time of work, well, then, are faced with a situation of uncertainty, but we have also said that we will always try to do so in the most appropriate way possible. In addition, you are constantly talking – also last Monday – about legislation and the General Plan for Urban Planning. Well, if we comply with the legislation, obviously we have to comply with the railway sector regulations, the Territorial Planning Guidelines, the Sectoral Territorial Plan, the Partial Territorial Plan... We have a lot of plans we have to pay attention to. And of course they are limitations that I would like to remind you that they are aimed at guaranteeing, and I read literally what you say..., "to ensuring the protection of the railway system against third parties, without referring to establishing limitations directed at the manager of railway infrastructure". It speaks of limiting distances, but, in any case, it also speaks of the fact that these distances may be reduced by the Administration provided that the need for reduction is established and the railway infrastructure and the safety and regularity of traffic are not adversely affected. In other words, the limitations always guarantee rail service, in the most restrictive regulations. We therefore believe that the sectoral legislation in force to define the railway route has not been breached. Otherwise, we wouldn't have continued. If we look also at what I was referring to from the General Urban Planning Plan, well, it is true that before proceeding to the installation of a railway infrastructure we will always refer to the primacy of territorial planning instruments over municipal planning, and you know it perfectly well. That is, railway legislation always, legislation of a higher order – worth redundancy – has primacy and is of a higher order than urban legislation, as you know it well, and I have no doubt, because it is usually well informed of these aspects. And it says in its article 7 that "the general plans and other general instruments of urban planning" – and continues – (...) "will not include determinations that prevent or disrupt the exercise of the powers assigned to the manager of railway infrastructure". Therefore, instruments of modification, revision, development or implementation of territorial and urban planning may not be approved in contravention of the provisions of a definitively approved information study, and you know it perfectly well. Would it be most desirable to have it included in the General Plan for Urban Planning? Yeah. However, the fact that it is not collected does not mean that the work in question is going to be illegal, but quite the contrary. Besides, I'd tell you something else. In the agreement signed on 4 May 2006 between the General Administration of Euskadi, the Foral Diputación de Araba and the City of Vitoria-Gasteiz for the implementation of the tram in Vitoria-Gasteiz, which is already implemented and functioning – signed, I would like to remind you, by Mr Rabanera and Mr Alfonso Alonso – they say that they consider it a good thing that the project is being implemented, and that it was also adjusted to reality. And, therefore, it was subscribed, and at that time the circumstance is exactly the same as that of now. Then, truly, Mrs López de Ocariz, I do not understand that what was legal, in 2006, with the same legislation in place... And, of course, something that today is not exactly reflected in the Urban Planning Plan of Vitoria-Gasteiz, nor was it at that time, and yet that work was legal. Why was it? For the reasons I have told you: because railway legislation is always above municipal legislation. Therefore, really, this exercise of wanting to try to land an infrastructure that is really being observed that serves a lot of citizens, that contributes to a much more sustainable mobility, that of course tries to continue with that Vitoria-Gasteiz green, Green Capital that was at the time, and that contributes to the improvement (a part of the improvement because the mobility plan is much bigger)... Obviously, I do not understand, I do not understand, when from your political party you have maintained a very proactive attitude to this tramway in the past. Why? What is the reason why this situation is now not pleasant? It is true, and we also said it in the committee, that probably for a neighbor or a neighbor of Adurza coming to the center does not require a tram. Or so. Or yes, because, it depends on mobility needs, it may require public transport, and it has it there by hand. Therefore, let us not really try to question, one, the legality of the action, because all the steps have been taken. And, of course, it even comes to me that there is no declaration of environmental impact. Please! The environmental impact statement has to be carried by every project, and I also read it perfectly in the committee, an environmental impact statement that specifically refers to all acoustic impacts, all environmental impacts, all social impacts. It exists and is in the constructive project. It just can't be any other way! It's not like this councilwoman and this government wants to do it or they don't want to do it! They've got to do it! And they did, by the way. Therefore, I will keep the positive part of this infrastructure, which is what I really think matters to the citizens of this territory and to those who come to this territory to move. In the last decade we have launched many actions, and in no case, of course, by imposition; always with the municipal agreement, and we will continue to do so. This Government is not going to set up any infrastructure against what the municipal plenary wants and against what the territory wants. It would, of course, be a barbarity, and we are not going to do it. This infrastructure goes with municipal agreement; I insist, not only with agreement, but with funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u55	Counselor, you don't answer anything we're asking you. Do you think that in a meter, in a meter (this is a meter), in a meter you can make life on a street? Do you think so? You think this is a good thing? He simply cares very little about the citizenship of Vitoria, very little about the citizenship of the neighborhoods of San Cristóbal and Adurza. Very little, to say nothing. They do a project that lacks common sense, which is basic. That they're going to strengthen a bridge that with the underground decays, that doesn't make sense. And on that bridge they're going to make, up, a stop. Who's going down there and up there? Do you have a study? Does anyone know the Triana Bridge? Upstairs, put an intermodal stop there, in an area...? But, Counselor, Counselor, but who's going to get up there to ride the train? It's really amazing. I think there are alternatives to that, and that also requires an extension of the tram, look, I don't know, but let's study the two projects together, not run over, that what they're doing is run over. They're jumping, they're superimposing the deadlines; they're not ending one or the other. Where is the constructive project finally approved? Where is he? Madam Counsellor, I repeat, this project has no prior diagnosis of the mobility needs of the area and of the infrastructure that exists. It doesn't exist. It does not have the citizen participation, the previous one, which is reflected in the mobility plan of Vitoria. That is the agreement, which we have not altered, because this tram was not a priority there. That wasn't a priority. And this deal, this, it's from Mrs. Tapia and Mrs. Larrion. You haven't explained the agreement you have, because I don't dare say PNV-Bildu, I don't dare say that. I don't even dare say that. The mobility plan provides, as I have said, for channels of citizen participation, which have not existed. You know it's an area where you're not going to eliminate a car from which you drive today. You're not gonna eliminate one. It is a zone of transit of private vehicles high; in peak hours, of very powerful mobility. And the tram, what are you going to do? Well, make a plug. Do you think emergency systems can fit in one meter to attend to an emergency? Do you think they fit? It's just that there may be a point space, but it's just that there's too much room here. Madam Counsellor, this project is not a priority in the mobility plan; it is not of interest to the neighbours, it is not of interest to the people on campus, it is not of interest to those who come to Osakidetza. Are you guys interested? Do you two care? Are you guys gonna come use the tram? Madam Counsellor, we are not facilitating the mobility of the area. He talks about sustainable mobility. The demands for mobility in the area, I told you before, are to industrial polygons and HUA, Txagorritxu's external consultations. It doesn't solve that. What is the problem of waiting and studying the two projects together? What's the problem? What urgency do you have, that you don't tell us? What's the emergency? Tell her, as we understand her. Let the neighbors of San Cristóbal and Adurza, every time they feel (every seven minutes) the tincture of the train, know what it is for. It's also a good cause! In addition, two more wagons will be put in: 60 tons every seven minutes. Platforms need to be expanded: there is no project. Are the buses okay? You don't know, it's the same. What the hell is this? But what is this, Counselor! What they say it's going to be 10 million euros, it's going to become 30. In 30. And on top of the buses, they don't fit. Can you tell me, this platform, with two more wagons, how the wide one, the one we have here, in front of Parliament? Counselor, I think there's too much improvisation in all this, unwarranted cost... The cost of the Trianas bridge is not justified, it is not justified. So, counselor, I don't think you're thinking about neighborhood mobility or Vitoria mobility. I think they're thinking about other things. Tell us, because it's something we didn't appreciate. But I think it is more the need to work, at whatever price, than the need for mobility.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Your time is up. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u57	Mrs López de Ocariz, for real, I do not understand your involvement in saying that it neither fits, nor serves, nor we have made plans; nor in teaching me a meter, which, by the way, I already know how much it is. Please, if we want to do some theater, then great. But so far the grace. What I'm not going to tolerate is that you say we do things without a plan. I will not tolerate that, because who comes here to say that buses do not fit, that emergencies are not studied, that the environmental impact study does not exist, it is you, when you know perfectly well that all that is done, is prepared and projected. When we're not acting from behind the city hall, when we're working with designs and street performances according to the city hall. Please, let's be a little serious! What to do a little bit of theater – I insist – from time to time is fine, but let's do things a little bit more serious. He's telling me about hit-and-runs. I told him on Monday: in 2006 the current tram route was launched, and the extension to universities was already planned. It doesn't seem like we're being hit too hard, it doesn't give me the impression, when eleven years later we're talking about running the infrastructure. This deadline doesn't seem to be too much of a hitch. He insists again and again that there is no prior diagnosis. Man, after eleven years, it gives me the impression that some diagnosis exists. The underground of the train tracks, the introduction of high speed in Gasteiz, was explained on Monday, with a stop that will facilitate intermodality. But not only do we study it as the Basque Government because it is the tram; it is that it has been raised together with Adif in the underground project, and it must be that they have not listened to you enough, because, indeed, so many road engineers to analyze a project, so something they have had to think about. It gives me the impression that something they must have thought, and they must have seen that it is moderately acceptable. I'm not going to tell you it's the panacea, but it seems to have been moderately acceptable. Because you get me a series of professionals who say I don't know what things, but it's that these projects don't make them the first one that goes through the street. They're professionals who execute him. And, incidentally, we're not working alone on the subterranean project. We are working with another institution that also has professionals, of course, which I very much respect. You tell me that this agreement is not even with the city council, and you were talking about Mrs. Larrion. I don't know if she's planning to perform this work on her own. I, of course, do not have much time to execute it, and to finance it much less. You know perfectly well that this goes with an agreement, and not only with the municipality, with the City of Vitoria-Gasteiz, but also with the Arab City Council. Then we're gonna be a little serious and we're gonna say what we're saying. Is there gonna be a problem? Sure. Booms? I'm going to talk to you about exactly pedestrian sidewalks. The current useful surface of sidewalks is almost 12,000 square meters, 11.900. After the insertion of the tram, the useful surface of pedestrian sidewalks is 10,000 square meters. We've done the numbers, haven't we? And you can tell me "1,900 square meters less." Yeah, but what we've won is on a bidegorris platform. It is not that we have lost them to introduce only the tram, but we have introduced bidegorris, and you know it perfectly. Therefore, in mobility there are not only sidewalks: there are trams, there are bidegorris. Green zones. The area of green areas is expanded by 3,800 square metres. So, for giving some data. In the final situation of the university stop, a small change has been made that makes public transport easier and much better for users. The implementation of the tram leads to a decrease in private transport, yes, and a decrease in noise and private vehicles. Yeah, 'cause he always does. And you know perfectly well that a public transport demand study is always short, because the induced demand once public transport appears is always much higher than the forecast. Then it is true that certain neighbors may have a difficulty, but the whole city is what we have to study. And demand studies and forecasts exist, you know that. You know that. And of course they exist not only now, but since 2006. And the joint project with the underground also exists, and knows perfectly well that the Trianas bridge has to continue to function, whether there is the underground or not. You know that. But you can use it as many times as you want, that I will answer you as many times as you ask me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. 9th point on the subject list: "The question is, that José Ramone Becerlo Carolo, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos, was made to the head of the economics and the subordinate department of economics, as to theability of the Arasur logistical platform." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u59	Commissioner, the Arasur logistics platform is an infrastructure in which the Basque Government participates with a participation of 10%. He is a minor shareholder, and in 2015 the Basque Government itself signed an agreement with two other institutions to build a railway terminal next to that logistic platform, for which 2.3 million euros are dedicated in the budget of this year 2017. All the money spent on an investment has to be profitable, and my question is: What is the profitability that the Basque Government intends to achieve with that investment?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u60	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u61	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Becerra, based on the question given by the Podemos team together, and based on the previous justification, various promotions are involved, although now, when you have asked questions, you have put them in another way. And it must be said that, on the one hand, Arasur, the logistical platform is a thing where, as you have mentioned, we have only 10% of it, and also the Fordundous Fore of Arbat, and part of another private. But on the other hand, we speak of another compact, which we only sign by the public institutions, a contract which we intend to set up in order to promote competition in this place, to give the future to the logistic platform. These are two issues that are really connected, but they are not the same, much less. First of all, we said, Arasur is a mostly private-owned company, where the Basque Government has a capital of 10% from the outset, and the participants are, in addition to the Basque Government, Kutxabank, Merlin Logistics Parks, the Basque Government, yes, the Foral Diputación de Álava, and the Town Hall of Ribera Baja. And what we are putting in place, in collaboration with the Foral Diputación de Álava and the port of Bilbao, is to try to give greater competitiveness to this logistics area, which has only road access, although rail access passes very close to it. And what we intend to do is to help revitalize that area, give it a better way out to the port of Bilbao in this case, which is also involved in the agreement, so that there is at the moment a railway area that allows us to make that road to rail transit, and also join it with a port. That is, to make a platform that allows us that absolute intermodality. That on the one hand improves, from the point of view of transport, the task of the platform, and on the other hand helps to make its competitiveness much better and, consequently, as you said to me in the question itself, we can recover the investments that we have made all the institutions. Not directly, but through improving the competitiveness of this logistics platform.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u63	Mrs. Tapia, that Arasur and the terminal go together is evidence, and that the terminal is to serve Arasur as well. But I have to say here that Arasur is owned by Araba Logística SA, and, as you said, 88% of the capital of that company is private. 88% is private. And in particular, half of that private capital belongs to Merlin Parques Logísticos SA, which is a company based in Barcelona, a subsidiary of a Madrid company. For those who do not know what a company is, it is a listed limited company of real estate investment that taxes corporate tax at 0 %, and has a 95 % bonus in the tax of assets transmissions and documented legal acts. That is, we are devoting public money to buying land, to changing land uses and to building an infrastructure that will only revitalize a private company, not a region or an area: a private company that does not pay taxes. So, I wonder where the public interest is. What is the economic profitability – as I say again – for Basque citizens of this investment that is being made with public money? Public resources are being devoted to trying to replenish a private company with a debt of more than EUR 50 million, which has never had any profits, even before the crisis, and whose sales volume fell by 24% between 2014 and 2015. But, well, suppose this terminal served to revitalize Arasur's decadent activity, which does not charge more than two million a year and has a debt, as I say, of 50 million euros. Have they quantified in the Basque government – I repeat – the economic impact that the new terminal would have on the accounts of this company? Is there such a study before the institutions address that convention? In short, does it seem to you good management to squander public money to help wipe out the losses of a private company that has neither profits nor taxes, even knowing that that company is economically unviable? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u64	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u65	Mr. Becerra, I was telling you at first, it's not appropriate to mix things up. It is not appropriate to mix things up, because it is true that in Arasur, private, the Basque Government has 10%, in those pavilions that exist there and in that operation; however, the terminal that is intended to start up (the railway terminal) will be public property – that is why we have publicly signed that agreement – and the terminal will operate independently..., even if it is located there, will operate independently of what the logistics platform is, as will the intermodal platform that will be located in Jundiz in the future. Therefore, what we guarantee is that the public that we invest money will be able to execute a transit of the goods that go along the roads of this country to the railway mode, and thus facilitate their transit to the port of Bilbao. That is the purpose of the Convention's action. No one else. And don't pretend to look for rinsing losses, squandering public money and the like. What is the Arasur logistics platform is one thing, and what is the railway terminal, the intermodal railway terminal that will be located in Arasur, is something else quite different. Is it located on the same ground? Yeah. Are they the same thing? No, no, And they're different societies that have nothing to do with each other. It neither rinses nor stops rinsing. There's no money, no transfer from one society to another. Let's not confuse the terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The tenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, "about the well of Armentia-2, which is trajecting gas in the Gastine Town, the head physician of economics and Sub-Sections." Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u67	Good noon, everyone. Good afternoon, Mrs. Tapia chief. Here again, asking about non- conventional gas, about the Armentia-2 gas-pulling that goes on. News has been around the subject in the last few days: The sale has been cancelled, the Grand Enarah has lasted for a long time, we believe, in a cheating way, but today we will discuss environmental claims because the Spanish Ministry has forced the environmental examination to start again, yes, yes, yes. And the solution has consequences in the deadlines of these plans, litigations, budget money, and you can explain it better. But, in our opinion, this resolution shows, above all, that things have been done badly, and that we think we must demand responsibilities. What do you do about the resolution?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u68	Thank you, Mr. Otero. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u69	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Otero, one thing before we start, because we're getting confused again. You said we're here to discuss non-conventional gas, and your question is for the Armentia-2 well. And Armentia-2 is not conventional, but conventional, so let's figure things out. You mentioned in the question that there are delays and that the subject will go further-Well, to examine things one by one, they are administrative steps, and I think I've mentioned it once more in two ways, in this case, evaluation, and one of them is the usual tramigation and the other, and I think I've mentioned it. I think that in the transcripts we can see that there were two alternatives: simplified processing, and ordinary processing. In the present case, we understood that it was a very concrete project, a single well, and that it could be carried out in a simplified way. That was our opinion. But we knew, however, that we could have the obligation to do so on the table with ordinary processing, and the Ministry of the Environment has considered this. And we understand that it may be because institutions as relevant as the City Council of Gasteiz and the Provincial Council of Álava had also requested to do so on an ordinary basis. The truth is that the environmental impact study that had been conducted was much more demanding than could be a simplified process. Therefore, we have nothing left but to carry out this study in the best possible way, with all the details that have been asked of us, and to do so in an ordinary manner. Yes, it will take us longer, but we understand that neither have those allegations requiring refusal of permits of investigation been taken into account. That has not been the case, but we have been told "Make ordinary processing more accurate, more concrete", and, of course, it will take longer. Since we have no desire to hide anything, we will obviously do our best and meet all that demand for ordinary processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u71	A reservoir rock with permeability value below 0.1 millidarcys is an unconventional reservoir. Your studies say that permeability is below that, so do yourself the favor, you who so much like rigor, of being rigorous. When we talk about Armentia-2, we talk about unconventional reservoirs. Iruditzen zait, horretaz aparte, ez garela ari odo ulertzen: ondoro praktikoak ditu, batha hau ez da kontu edo arazo administradotibo txiki bat, zeren eta zu personalki lerrokatu zara Euskadiren hydrocarbons ingurumen-tramitazioarekin, age nola, zeren eta otsaileko zure itzak ekarriko dizkizut hau azaltzeko. Eta hau esaten zenuen: "What I can assure you is that, as far as the documentation submitted by SHESA is concerned, it is much more in line with the scope required by the law and goes beyond what is usual in these cases, because precisely we want to be rigorous in the preparation of the relevant reports, and society has been scrupulous in a section such as the environment". And the Energy Directorate, in charge, when asked for an opinion, concluded the report stating that "significant environmental conditions are not expected". But, far from this, from this position, the ministry in the resolution that sends them, in box 1 summarizes the main deficiencies detected in the project, and says: "The installation of the water supply drive is likely to affect the ZEC river Zadorra". The Nuclear Security Council has warned that the project is likely to have a significant radiological impact on workers and the environment. The necessary extension of information is extended to other aspects of documentation: impacts, measures, environmental monitoring plan, etc., and in line with the above highlights the absence of a contingency plan for significant environmental impacts. Eta gabezia askoz gehiago aipatzen will say, bath mamira joanez honela amiazzen of ebazpenak. Esaten du: "Considering all this, and on the proposal of the Directorate General for Quality and Environmental Assessment, this Ministry resolves that it is foreseeable that the Armentia-2 project will produce significant adverse impacts". "Go produce significant adverse impacts." Ez dakit zer iruditzen zaizun hau, nire doubt bakarra da honi masilekoa edo matrailekoa deitzea. And it's not new, it's been 12 years since SHESA has been following this well for 12 years, he's never been able to get the transfers right. I'll leave you a summary of the decapitation of the transfer before you entered the government, I don't know where, so you can see what I'm talking about. And of course you don't have the responsibility of it, but of what's now, yes. I told you on the committee you didn't like him because I didn't know who he was cheating on. You had a chance to stop the rope, but no, to defend the public money's purse in one hand and the other the sword in the SHESA. And for the end, you say that there is perhaps gas in the Basque Country under the ground, but you know what really is in the ground? The 25 million dollars that he's buried in Hidrocarbros de Euskata for the past ten years, all of us, that's what's in the ground. Así que, stop this for once, ja. [[He gave the staff some papers.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u72	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Otero. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u73	Mila esker, andrea president. Well, Mr. Otero, I understand that I wanted to confuse things. It's just... You're talking about what's in that repository, and I'm telling you that Armentia-2 is a conventional technique and license to make a well. So, let's get this thing straight and let's get the permission we're asking for, that extra... And at this moment we're at an inspecation experience that it's going to be done using conventional techniques. That's clear, isn't it? And that's where you agree. I also mentioned that in what you read, we understood that it was the only well and that it could be done with symplified transmitation, and that the statement we made for this reduced transfer was going beyond the demand. It is true that if the transition is customary, more things must be explained. And in this case, what the minister said is, "Amplify (ampliación de informivion), and pass the tramite to the usual." I mean, not a simplified processing, as we thought was enough, but they say, "Do the ordinary processing." We'll do it! And what we are looking for is not to do it at all costs, but to make a declaration of environmental impact that tells us whether or not in that execution of that exploratory well there are going to be environmental impacts, and what characteristics they are going to be. That's the goal of an environmental impact statement, and you know it, and that's where we're at. And, of course, we are going to do it in the best possible way, although it is true that we think that in this case it could have been simplified. They're telling us no? We obey and do the ordinary, but that doesn't mean we can't do it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Number of points in theme list: "Interface, the parliamentary members of the Basque Society of Laura Garrido Knörr, made to the chief physician of Eplegus and Society, the delay of DSBE and Professional Employment Office reform." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u75	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chiefs, congressmen. Well, we've brought back a proposition on social business to the legislature that the necessary measures are not taken by this government. The report of the former May 31st Government was introduced, and the report was made that it had come to an agreement in this legislature after a proposal proposed or directed by Popular Party. We have to say, Madam Counsellor, that the diagnostic report that you presented on 31 May in the Committee on Employment and Social Policy is a report drawn up following an initiative by the People's Party, as you well know, in which agreement is reached. This group abstained. And we abstained because we understood that that diagnosis already existed, provided by the many existing data; that your predecessor in the responsibilities you now hold had already prepared a report through the technical commission. Moreover, apart from urging the Basque Government to prepare a report within five months, it was urged that the preparation of that report, within one month, should be followed by the establishment of the most appropriate mechanisms for the study of that report with the participation of various actors and institutions, and that the system would then be reviewed. "Dede el Grupo Popular se lomos reterarido en vacharias ocares y se lo vuelvo a tera trina." I'll tell you again. The best mechanism or best resource is to improve the system of social services, which is to lead and lead to a plan of legislation to debate. We believe from the People's Group, as I said, that the most appropriate thing is that once and for all the Basque Government already assumes its responsibility and forwards to this House a draft law amending the income-guarantee rules. I was telling you, the first debates that the People's Party brought to this House had to do with the amendment of the regulation of the RGI, which is what we are referring to, and with the reform of Lanbide. We had debates that connected perfectly with the concerns of the citizens; concerns that have to do with the management of social aid, the shortcomings in the management of the social aid system, and also with the achievement of employability, the deficits that Lanbide presents in the activation not only of the people who receive aid, but of the people who are unemployed, by Lanbide. Berriro aukera has approved nahi dugu eskatzeko irtenbideak eta konponbideak Gobernuaren aldetik. He said that we want to take this opportunity again to ask for solutions from this Government. So far we have no solutions, Madam Counsellor. The last legislature was passed you blank (effective solutions). Then I will refer to the document you have put forward. At the end of the legislature there was a timid change, beginning to recognize the evidence, as the data obviously spoke for themselves, and, as I said before and have repeated it on numerous occasions, we already had a report that Mr Toña announced. This legislature begins by recognizing the problem, but they lack action. They are still out of action, Counsellor and gentlemen of the Government. This Government has ended up recognizing a problem that it began to deny, but, as I say, there is a need to put in place effective solutions and to fix the problem properly. They have ended up giving us the reason, counselor; I don't know if this makes them much grace, but in the end, recognizing the problem, the Basque Nationalist Party, which passed the previous legislature blank, despite the many initiatives that were put on the table... I have to remember the popular legislative initiative signed by more than 40,000 people, I have to remember the initiative put forward by the People's Party, the proposal for a law, that you..., both legislative initiatives were not taken into consideration in this House, and there was a missed opportunity to open the debate on this issue. And there was simply no opportunity to open this debate because this government did not have the will to start it. I hope that you will obviously be able to react, and that you will already take the necessary measures and the solutions required by this problem and the magnitude of this problem as well. We are always faced with new dilatory maneuvers. You are going to refer me to the deadline of that month, and you are going to point out to me, surely, that you have already completed by drawing up that diagnostic report. Indeed, in this diagnostic report some of the proposals that are also being put forward coincide with the proposals that the People's Party presented in these initiatives and with the ILP. You talk about not counting some issues in relation to heritage, which lead to the inability to perceive GIR. That's what we're wearing in the People's Legislative Initiative. You propose to reduce the registration time, we propose to increase it... They could have amended that concrete proposal! I mean, you guys are clearly wasting your time. The many shortcomings have to do with management issues, which you have highlighted in your report. We are talking about EUR 132 million in undue charges, of which only 26. And what we are told in the report itself is that it is a structural problem, which, according to new revisions, new amounts of undue charges will arise, I imagine that the same statement will apply to fraud, irregularities and abuses. To the extent that you also make revisions, not only will new undue charges, undue payments, arise if we impute them to Lanbide, but also new situations of fraud, abuse and irregularities in the system. Of course, they conclude that it is a structural problem of Lanbide, and, as it is a structural problem of Lanbide, they come with the solution of exempting from the payment of undue charges after twenty-four months. That is, when there are no situations of fraud or fraud, as you point out. That is to say, at this particular point you, with this specific proposal, do not want to assume your responsibility either. Finally, I am also going to make some references to the shortcomings in the Ararteko report, which we had the opportunity to hear from this committee. Deficits that have to do with management, but with very important issues: there is no single model of care, the attention is different according to the office to which you go... I know, Madam Counsellor, that this issue bores you with the faces you are putting on me, but it is the reality, the reality that the reports in this case of the Ararteko, which I imagine will also give you some credibility. There is not the same attention in all offices, there is no homogeneous attention. The training gaps of the staff are also detailed. It is that staff are given some theoretical courses that they themselves point out are absolutely insufficient to meet the needs posed to them in the offices of Lanbide! Speaking of computer tools, we talk about the limited functionality of these tools and the few advances that have been made in these computer media. Counselor, these issues should be resolved! We are, of course, talking about the wide margin of improvement that exists in relation to inclusion agreements, with personalized attention. By the way, when you talk to us, among the proposals, about giving content to the inclusion agreements and putting a guide person to each person who receives social assistance, then, if this is already provided for in the law! What happens is that you did not want to put it in place, you did not want to give content to the inclusion agreements, you did not want to follow up on the orientation actions, training, which are included in those inclusion agreements. There are many mechanisms that are already provided for in the law, but because of inefficient management and the lack of tools that Lanbide has, according to the data that we are familiar with in successive reports, it is therefore not possible to follow up on the forecasts of the law itself. Madam Counsellor, in the end, we cannot afford to allow you to remain silent on an essential matter and to let time pass, as if the mere course of time gave us the solution. We believe it is time for you, once and for all, to assume your responsibility. The diagnostic report is there, but I tell you that it does not bring us too much news either. We are told to control the requirement of effective residence. That was already a requirement that was set out in the Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act, and you already knew there were problems there! And I knew it in the last legislature. Therefore, do not come to us now as saying that we must establish controls. They already knew, and they had solutions on the table by the People's Party. We therefore urge you, Madam Counsellor, and therefore ask you why you are delaying the reform of RGI and Lanbide in this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u76	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. In reply, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. It is not that I am bored with the issue, the issue worries me, and I also believe that the whole House is concerned about the solution, which I believe we all have to look for in order to finally get the income guarantee system, the protection system that in this country has produced important results in order to reduce poverty, and which must be carried out through the consensus and work of this House, using Lanbide as a tool, we will achieve it. What bothers me sometimes is that the same speech is always made, also without taking into account the initiatives that this Government, to which I belong six months ago, has already launched, and that they are always referring to issues of the past that I cannot resolve at this time. The question has drawn my attention, because we understand that there is no breach or delay in the issues that you raise. We are meeting the deadlines set six months ago, at the beginning of this legislature, and we are working on continuous improvements in GIR and in the management of Lanbide. I remember a meeting of the Committee on Social Services where we presented initiatives to improve income-guarantee income management in the short term, which you told me was why you were in such a hurry to carry out or present these initiatives, when we were awaiting a much more intensive and calm debate on GIR. And I answered him that one question was what the reform of a law had to be, and another question was what the management and continuous improvement on which all organizations have to be working was. And Lanbide's proposals at the time made them to improve a number of issues that we understood were going to promote the relationship with users and workers, and we are going to promote this improvement in the field of computer science, in the field of training, in the field of relations... I do not know whether or not intentionally, but two questions are mixed in this initiative: on the one hand, the proposal for a law of 15 December on the modification of social aid, and, on the other hand, the proposal for a law of 2017 on a Lanbide reform plan. The first called on the Basque Government to promote a broad-based social pact to consolidate funding and ensure the sustainability of the Basque social protection system. It was also specified in that pact that we would have to consider changes that would allow us to optimize the aspects inherent in income guarantee income and consolidate it as an instrument of social cohesion in order to advance and respond to situations of poverty, by reviewing the units of coexistence, also each of the members that were part of those units, with the aim of improving their protection and avoiding the occurrence of situations of chronification. And that's what we're in, Mrs. Garrido. This agreement also called on the Basque Government to present this diagnosis within five months, and we have also complied with that, Mrs Garrido. The deadline was 15 May, and I applied to appear in committee, at my own request, on 10 May. That meeting was held on 31st, at which a number of proposals for improvement were presented. And not only some related to management, but some proposals (fifty proposals) of stalemate, which had to do with amendments to the law, such as the determination of living units to protect especially families with children, progress in the amount, the speeding up of the certification of effective residence, the requirements that refugees have to have, improvements also in the valuation of assets... Improvements have also been proposed in the area of employment incentives, as well as the involvement of the ordinary company in the generation of employment opportunities, the realization of the right to employment inclusion, and also the monitoring of persons assisted by the GIR. And we have fulfilled this initiative. On 31 May I presented these initiatives at this parliamentary seat, with the aim of starting work within one month, in the version which this Parliament deems most appropriate, to carry out serious, consensual and cohesive work which will enable us to reach a unanimous agreement if it can be, to improve and consolidate the model we have adopted. And with regard to the second proposal, on the Lanbide reform plan, we were urged to draw up a reform of the autonomous body within six months. And this proposal was approved on 26 January. Throughout this time we have also been working on the reform and modernisation of Lanbide, to provide the service with tools to strengthen the functions of guidance, training and market entry, and in the near future we will also ask for the appearance to explain what it will consist of, to detail the initiatives we want to take to improve the management of Lanbide and to modernize that service. But we are also moving forward in a document where various sections or axes are defined and developed for the improvement of their services. These are proposals that we will put forward, as I say, within the set deadlines, which are well worked, contrasted, and which will be effective and aimed at a broad consensus on the commitment and management of quality jobs and jobs. Lanbide has to offer a comprehensive and personalized plan to every job-seeker. Integral, because it accompanies each person during the job search process advising him, guiding him, assisting him with different training actions. And personalized, because individual plans are designed suitable for each profile. We want Lanbide to contribute to full employment; employment that is stable and of quality. And to do so, we look after those who seek their first job, or those who are unemployed, or those who want to join, or are working and want to improve. But we are also addressing companies that want to cover jobs and need advice and support for job creation. Lanbide offers personalized, direct and quality care to improve employment opportunities. We are including new tools in this task, as is the case with Future Lan, participating with the claimant in the personal job search plan, providing tools such as training, job search techniques, business practices, personalized advice, and mediation. But in March, we also presented a series of immediate measures in this House, as I mentioned earlier, with the aim of ensuring that the recipients of the benefit have faster answers when carrying out the relevant procedures, and at the same time open this system to all Basque citizens for their greater knowledge. The objectives of these immediate measures that were presented in their day are clear and with a short-term horizon to be pursued: Internal, improving management, control and information systems. This recommendation made to us by Ararteko regarding computer systems, which we need to improve, we are already working to adapt and improve our training and to improve our information systems. Second. Persons receiving the benefit should receive the response from the Administration more quickly. We are also working: we have reduced the average processing period for income guarantee income from 100 days to 40 days. We have to keep improving, but we are on it. Third. The general public must be subject to agile information, which pursues the understanding of the model and its effects on today's society. We're working on an easy reading. We are working to publish, as we have published, the criteria for the processing of the guarantee income, to ensure transparency and so that the recipients know what their rights are and what their obligations are. We have identified those priority actions that we have already listed in that committee. We are working, noting that the reorientation and updating of Lanbide's management is a matter of concern to us all. And we, as a Government, are busy looking for these measures that will help us to help more and better. You, with the parliamentary initiatives, have also conveyed your concern to us. They confirm to us that it is a concern shared by this House, and that is why, from the department I have the honour of hosting, we are carrying out the initiatives we have. And we understand that it is in the short, medium and long term that we have to set in motion, seeking broad consensus. But when you tell me that we have done nothing, when you tell me that we are putting forward initiatives quickly and that we should have waited for the most calm debate of the law, you sometimes confuse me, Mrs Garrido. Because we intend to continue working, improving the management of income guarantee income, which has to go in a way complementary to what can be a more comprehensive and in-depth reform of the law. But we don't just have to stop at that; we have to move forward day by day, improving the quality of service provided by Lanbide.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u79	Yes, ma'am. Make-up operations, patches... But what we need here are comprehensive reforms, in-depth reforms, seeing the data we have on the table and seeing that Lanbide, as a Basque employment service, is not fulfilling its employability objectives, both of perceptive and unemployed people. And there are also the figures for intermediation. The Ararteko report itself clearly warns that the inclusion agreements must be given substance, that there is a wide margin of improvement in everything that has to do with the activation of the people in the system. That is why from this group we ask you again: When are the solutions, Madam Counsellor? When will this government once and for all assume its responsibility? But not by proposing improvements that are mere makeup operations, that are isolated issues, that are not issues that are addressing reform with the integrity and depth that the solution to this problem requires. Will this government comply with its legislative timetable, Counsellor? It is that in the legislative calendar that this government has sent us the forecast of amending the income guarantee income regulations, which we believe to be late, is fixed in the second quarter of 2018! Is it going to meet this, or is it going to happen as in the last legislature, that in the end we had to put the accelerator even overrun the deadlines and various bills were passed as they were passed? Because we, of course, do not have much confidence in this government's compliance with the legislative timetable. And I refer to the facts. Not to mention those laws that were intended to be referred to this House, which were not referred to. Of course, you give me the feeling that you also want to leave your responsibilities in the House in the search for that consensus. But it is that the main responsibility to put forward a legislative reform, since you did not seize the opportunity in the last legislature, is yours. Of course, you tell me "The People's Party Speech...". Sure, it's our speech. Look, our speech is the one that led to Patxi López's parliamentary term from 2009 to 2012, already introducing predictions into the regulations that you also now pose as novel. It has already been suggested that revisions should be increased. It has already been suggested that rejection of a job could not be perceived as GIR. It is that a control unit has already been proposed and you are now considering strengthening it. It is that all these issues were introduced into the legislation and the system by initiatives of the People's Party, which has been presenting in this House for a long time. It also tells me that we are talking about regulation and management. Yeah, it's two sides of the same coin! You yourself have found in your many appearances that the forecasts are not being properly managed, that Lanbide is not making proper management of the normative forecasts. That is, when you put in place new controls on effective residence..., but if registration and effective residence is already a requirement that must be met in the law! It's just that if you're not verifying that that requirement is being met, you're not doing your job well, with the government responsibility you have for Lanbide and the Basque employment service. Of course, he tells me that they are... but the same shortcomings that were observed at the beginning of Lanbide's start-up are still being noted. There are still shortcomings in computer systems, there are still shortcomings in the training of staff, which I have told you before. It is that the staff says "We do not have tools; it is that we are given courses of a series of hours, absolutely insufficient and inadequate then for the technical issues that arise in the management and processing of this benefit". And not to mention the subject of employability. It's just that people chronicle themselves in the system, counselor. If you know! If there are the alerts and eardrops that Ararteko also gives him on these issues in relation to mediation, guidance and training! Therefore, we believe that you have to assume your responsibility, and you have to refer a bill as soon as possible. That is the way to open the debate in this House. And, therefore, do not delay the effective solutions required by the magnitude of the problem. We're talking about employment. We are talking about that one of his slogans in the electoral campaign and in the speeches of the lehendakari has been "The best social policy is employment". So get your hands on the work, and let Lanbide function as it should and fulfill the purposes he has entrusted in the law already once and for all, which is now time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u80	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u81	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs Garrido, I really do not understand, because after all the questions I have raised to you, all the initiatives that we are putting on the table, all the initiatives and issues and tools that we are activating, that you continue to say that we do nothing, that this government does nothing... I don't think your speech is credible anymore. It's not credible, because they're repeating what they've been saying since the last legislature, and that really, Mrs. Garrido, we've moved on. We are at another time, we are doing another series of issues, and I believe that what we all have to do is keep moving forward. We have presented, within the time limit that Parliament has told us, what is the reform of income guarantee income, and we will also comply with the presentation of the reform and modernisation of Lanbide, and we will do so. So, we have also defined that, according to the legislative calendar, we are going to try to get the law passed in the first quarter of 2018, and we are going to comply with it. If we have been fulfilling the above issues in time and form, why do we not trust that we will also comply with the adoption of that law? We have done the work; it is now in Parliament to define what form they have to do. Of course, I take the lead in social policies and I take the lead in income-guarantee income reform. I'm not going to escape this responsibility that I have. But what we have done is work and do what we had to do, and now it is you, as parliamentarians, who will decide what the procedures you want to carry out are. If you want, we will present what we have to present, we will push what we have to push, because we are the most interested in this matter being closed, and closed in an orderly manner. Previously, in the last legislature, the debate on income guarantee income was not held in depth because there were electoral issues that would in some way prejudice or not allow a calm debate to take place. We are now in a quiet time, in which on the next horizon we have no election date, which is conducive to reaching agreements. And, Mrs Garrido, indeed, the positions have been clearly expressed by the groups. It is time to do a great deal of policy in this area and in this area. Also, when talking about Ararteko, Ararteko is referring to the 2016 management report. We're in 2017. The recommendations that Ararteko has proposed in his report, and that we also have a close relationship – both at the political and technical levels – have been partly reflected in the fifteen proposals for amendments that we have made to improve and strengthen the law. So... He also tells me that the training of Lanbide workers is not the right one. Right. That is why we have put forward a plan and we are going to work on a training plan for these workers, which adapts their characteristics and adapts their training, so that they can provide an adequate service. But I also want to tell you one thing, Mrs Garrido: one of the important issues that we have also implemented is to conduct annual satisfaction surveys among the users of Lanbide's services themselves. And 85% of the people who are cared for by Lanbide say they are satisfied with the attention they receive. Everything is better, and of course we are, but 85% of the people, 1,123 people who were surveyed, say that the treatment they receive from the workers and from the Lanbide-Employment Public Service in Euskadi is satisfactory. The degree of satisfaction has increased by 0.15 points, to 6.8 out of 10. And especially positive is the assessment made by the users of Lanbide of the kindness of the staff, a section that has obtained a rating of 8.10 points; the face care, with 7.6, and the domain of the matter by the professionals who care for them, of 7.5. So, I understand that we have a lot of work to do, that we have a lot to do, but that everything is not doing so badly. The satisfaction study, as I said, includes that we are improving, and more than half of the people treated consider that the services they have received and have received from Lanbide to be adequate. It is true that this Government has the objective of working on income-guarantee reform and the modernisation of the Basque Employment Service, and that is where we are, Mrs Garrido. We have complied, and we will also comply with what is the adoption of the law in the first quarter of 2018. That is our intention, and I hope that you will have the support of this House in order to achieve it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The 12th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, Mine of the Kortah, the parliamentary member of the Combat Group, made to the Chief of Eplegus and Polic Society, in the event of certain changes which have been issued from the service of the H.B. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u83	Yes, ma'am, thank you. Good morning chief, sir. "The service of eternal telesistence is essential to the ability of the autonomy and independence of a 430,000 years old, and of giving answer to users, it is a great help to families and guardians." That's what you said, chief physician, in answer to the question you asked about this matter in a control circle. Even when you introduced the past, you were categorical about this subject, when you told us that it was a service necessary to ensure the welfare of older people. This is one of the only direct management services your department has in the culture of social services. But once again, there's trouble with the service, and it's not the first time. The 105 workers who work in this so instinctive service are beginning to work. During the last period, owing to the changes which attend the management of the service, the quality and efficiency of the service itself discovers that it has decreased; These changes and employments are concerned with the consequences of the life of persons and of their relatives, and of the working conditions of their workmen; and this service being the direct responsibility of your department, our party would like to know what criterion you will bring to the solution of this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u85	Mrs Kortajarena, the public service of teleassistance is a clear and obvious bet of this government, and since mid-2011 we have been working to ensure a significant improvement in the quality of life of our elderly people in the management and delivery of this service. We are a model in the European Union, a reference in the state, and you also know perfectly well that other autonomous communities have come to us to know what our model is. I think it is necessary to contextualize the answer that I want to offer you now. Euskadi leads the future of teleassistance with a personalized approach, through improved efficiency in the use of information and communication technologies. Since 2016, we have been designing a strategy for modernizing and sustainability of service to address the challenges associated with ageing, which has been reflected in the last procurement file awarded last October and which involves a bet on a person-centred model, taking advantage of the efficiency of technologies. This new award aims to homogenise the provision of this service in the three territories. Since 2011, the companies that provide the service maintain a collaboration with DYA in the historical territories of Araba and Gipuzkoa, continuing the collaboration that already existed when the outlaws were in charge of managing it. On 8 June, the contracting entity informed of its intention to subcontract DYA to perform night coverage of the service in Bizkaia, from 10 a.m. to 8 a.m., which was already provided for in the tender documents, in order to respond to the demand for uninjured falls, as has been done for several years already in the other two territories. The evaluation of the tender that has been awarded already envisaged the possibility of extending this contract with DYA-Bizkaia, also seeing it as an improvement for the collective of the official persons of teleassistance, who stopped making the nights. It is also necessary to point out that the labour aspects are the exclusive competence of the contracting companies of the service, although Osatek oversees this process of transformation, guaranteeing its quality. The labour dispute has its origin mainly in the new night service organization, which will perform it in Bizkaia the DYA, as it does in the territories of Araba and Gipuzkoa. No redundancies are going to occur, and it is only going to be about relocation of these people in the day shifts. The good experience demonstrated during these years in Araba and Gipuzkoa in the provision of night service is the one that has made the company want to carry out this homogenization. It is about rationalizing resources: the workers' collective stops doing night shifts, and in addition the service is guaranteed by an entity of recognized solvency and professionalism in our country as is the DYA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u87	Thank you. Mrs. Artolazabal, let's see if we're going to die of success. The fact that things are doing well does not mean that they are not improving, and that things have been doing well does not mean that some measures taken do not imply that this situation is going to get worse. We're not talking about little things when we talk about this. DYA's subconstitution is a subcontractation of subcontation, and, as you say, the service of the night grows, DYA will do, but these workers will have access to other functions, and this change of function can also produce other sublations. Even in the change of protocol in those endless falls, some of these changes, desego, have nothing to do with the question of the coe model, dethención the patient of the centranadoes, because what is planned is that a technical would come at once before the fall, and the present is first to call the family and invite them to resolve the situation. And if they don't come, then they'll come at once, and there's no respect for the old man's need or desire. I think it's a matter of inquiry which he sits on the table. You can't hide behind a sub-contradiction, because services can be sub-concontradicted, but no responsibility, and the responsibility of this service is yours. Therefore, our only intention in this enterprise is to ask that we have an active attitude, that we may not be one of those confessionals which enact in the public services, come to the answer, delegate, or hide behind a subcontradiction, and, in fact, if this is a wager, answer. The service must be of quality, but even the work-making conditions are offered must be of quality, and that's what's supposed to be a model. It must be in exemplary excellence, it must not be model or sub-contradiction, even in prevarication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. In reply, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u89	We understand that quality service is also provided in the two territories of Araba and Gipuzkoa, and that, therefore, performing it also in Bizkaia will not imply a decrease in quality, but, on the contrary, an improvement in the system and service. We recognize the work of the professionals who are doing it, I think it is a work that has demonstrated and validated the model, because moreover it is done by the citizens of this country themselves, because they have gone from being 15,000 users in 2011, to more than 43,000, as you have said, at this time. Therefore, the model works, and the model works well, and I think what we have to do is strengthen the model. That homogenization takes place and that in Bizkaia the DYA carries out the work it is doing in Araba and Gipuzkoa does not mean a loss of quality, for nothing. Moreover, it is also not going against the economic or working conditions of workers. Simply what is done is – even so it was valued in the file – an improvement, because they stop doing those nights improving the quality of service. Of course, what we want is for this to be resolved as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "Interrelation of Mireguon Ruiz de Gauna EH Collector to the head of the Board of Education, with the intention of the economic or other economic resources which UUPV/EHU puts in the investigation area of the investigation." Lady Trouble is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u91	Congresswoman, members of the legislature, head of the Uriart, good day. Tuesday the Agustin Sánchez Lavega astrofisist received the Euskadi Research Prize. It was a well-paid reward. Agustín Sánchez Lavega has been a pioneer to introduce astronomy and astronomy into the world of the schizcan sciences: He created the planetary science team, even the Space Room and the Astronomic observation team in Bilbo Engineering School. Agustín has combined the technology development of basic science and instrumentation, and has contributed to certain projects of the European Space Agency, and has been appointed by the NASA Mars 2020 scientific investigator and co-worker of the MDA researcher. And the Agustín Sánchez Lavega's reward is not an exception when we get the Euscadi Research Prize. The prize of 2014 was José Felix Martí Massó, a doctor and professor of the Basque Country University. 2013. In the History of the High Monreal, Law, and Organizations, the effeminate, and the professor of the University of the Basque Country. In 2012, the tour was Louis Vega, the Caddy of the Malemic Analysis University of the Basque Country. In 2011, it was Ibon Sarasola, the Basque Philology chain of Basque University. In 2010, the Maribel Arriorta, the crystalgraphy and the Minderalogy chain. Even this year, and as Mrs. Uriart knows very well, Claudius Palomo and José María, the professor of Basque University, has rewarded the Royal Society in Spain, a prize of gold medals and research, among other things. I said it wasn't a coincidence. No, it's not, because the Basque Country has produced 75% of knowledge in this country. But I will tell you one thing, que vivimos de rentas. It's been a few years since you've been able to reduce the finances of the Basque Country University, and the consequences of it will be noticed in the middle of the time. This year's annual budget for the Basque State University, in comparison with the 2010 budget, 15% lower, which is 405.35.37 euros. But as long as this happened in college, the Euko MUKM has raised his own budget to the front rate of crisis. The result is that the deficits which have suffered during the last few years in UPV/EHU in USCIST, investigation, Plantion, and installations will be deeply absorbed. You know some buildings are falling. In 2016, it was a 307,9 million euros, but 2017's prediction will be 303,97 million, which means the reduction of 1,28. That is 3, 93 million dollars less. And this is not all, because this reduction is added to those who come from the past few years. Why is it, like, 344% smaller than the common contribution that Red-WE's making to UV/EHU? I mean, you don't give 9,6 million dollars to college, and you don't even keep a signed agreement. From the same ring, and according to the college plan, it would have to be done by fun to build a new medical profession for $1.372.374. But where are they? When does the Board of Education ever leave this new university that's agreed to and is so necessary? Let's go on with the university plan. The plan says it should be 1,2% of the raw internal product for 2020 years. And I also want to remember that when the rector was here, the high ground, 2015 on this legislature, he was asking for %1,4%. But what I'm trying to remember here and today is that you plan for 1,5% of the US Jeltist Party and the Socialist Socialist Party. Mrs. Wheels, when shall we see the first step for this purpose? It was about 71,5 million dollars in EAE, 2016, and it'll be 0.42% of the unproduced funding for the Basque Country University this year. It's 1,5% in the state of government, in the budgets for the Basque Country University. There's a difference. When does the Board of Education proceed from words? And we ought to add a little detail to all that has been said before: In 2011, he pays off the year after the university money he's paid for, you know, and that's what makes the Basque Country University a lot of business. I can't just ignore the funding made in 2004. Here it is said: "Jaurnation will decide the stock of university supplies for each budget, proposed by the chairman of the university's jurisdictions, hearing the university and reporting the Council to the Public Institute of University, which will be included in the legal institution of the General Preservative Preservation at the Election of Autonomy." Is this done? It's not done. Or, at any rate, we have not seen that there was such a thing as this. We asked the former rector at the Board of Education to rate the Basque Country for the last eight years, the moon to the Highland, and in its performance, among many others, the subject of the finance of the EHU. He explained to us that EHU needed to have stable funds that will not be changed for years, and even demanded increase of investments. Also in public statements the current rector, Nekane Balluerka – I read textually – said: "We want to improve teaching and scientific equipment, because in recent years because of the crisis we have not been able to make investments. We also have accessibility problems in some centres, and we want to improve the prevention of occupational risks. "One of our priorities is to consolidate the workforce, and for that we have to move all posts that are funded under the contract-programme to regular funding. This would consolidate teaching staff and PAS, and research staff. We also want to increase PAS in teaching and research lab technicians, and also in computer technicians, of which we are in great need. "We are the leading investigator in this country, the UPV generates 65% of the knowledge. That leadership position must be maintained and improved. The crisis has had a negative impact on research; the pace of investment has to be recovered for research." And I also want to recall different commitments made by the lehendakari Iñigo Urkullu. On 10 April this year, Lehendakari acknowledged the need to facilitate and improve the conditions of university research teams, and recalled that the Basque Government has committed itself to increasing R & D+i allocations by 5% each year. That is one of the questions we are asking: the way in which your Government, your department, facilitates and improves these conditions, and the way in which it is going to impact, if it is going to do so, this increase in aid, if a party is going to be allocated directly or through competitive calls, in your department or in other departments. Also, at the inauguration of the rector, the lehendakari said: "We are at the beginning of a new stage in the Basque Government, also in the university; this gives us the option to look to the future and face the new challenges. It is time for commitment, rigour and teamwork, both in education and in scientific policy." If these intentions are honest, and even, in fact, the history plan that doesn't meet, the absence of the contract, the cost of financing, the need to accumulate, we want to know what sort of plans the Board of Education has for UPV/EHU. We'd like to know if in ten years the Eusacidians will be able to find out whether the construction conditions will improve, whether the buildings will be repaired, whether the workers will continue to stabilize, and whether words will become action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u92	Thank you, Miss Trouble. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u93	Mr. President of the Parliament, members of the legislature, good morning. Mrs. problemon, answering your question, I'd like to say first that the Basque Country University, for his good work, is a remarkable agent for the social transformation of our people. EHU is the university of Esscal University, where our multiple system rests on the 3/2004 Law, February 25th. This law was tested in this parliament by 2004. it is a year, and now it is established. Thus it determines the 3/2004 laws, including financing options of the Esscal University System. Among these are defined those relating to EHU, which is common to the common contribution and end. Well, I have to add that the university plan is the planning instrument which sets out both the objectives set for the evolution of the Basque university system and the funding associated with each of the sections dealing with that plan, according to Law 3/2004. In this sense, the 2015-2018 University Plan is the third comprehensive plan that the Basque university system has had since its creation in 2004. That is to say, every four years priorities are set and the economic resources invested by the Basque Government are allocated to develop the structural actions and specific objectives of our system, our universities, and the UPV/EHU for this period. The University of 2015-2018, in any case, has been created as a new impulse to direct the efforts of the earlier plans to the solution of the sociencies of challenge, and to place the Basque University properly in front of the European sphere of high-school education and the root of the European research camp. The University of 2015-2010 has a close commitment to the culture and educational culture of our society. Consequently, I must tell you that this university plan has determined with a series of admirable cooperations and the basic funding of our public university. This plan has been agreed by both parties, and we try to fill it, even though it is not the best economic situation today. The university plan is the instrument for the management of the Basque university system; thus, this plan sets objectives and priorities for its period of validity. In addition, in the case of the public university, the UPV/EHU, the university plan guarantees a sufficient funding model for the fulfilment of its aims and the improvement of quality. In addition, it should be mentioned that the experience of the university plan is long, more than two years, in which the planning and financing of the system has been worked out and agreed; an experience that transcends the rectoral teams, so that in many cases different teams and different rectoral periods are intertwined. This situation allows for stability of policies, objectives and actions beyond governments or rectorates. Thus, many of the Rectorates have been involved in the agreements adopted and in their management over the years. As you know, the last of these agreements took place in 2014, and gave way to the current university plan, which, by the way, will be in effect until December 2018. I mean, there are still goals and actions to be achieved, and I have to say that there is time to do so. Well, as you know, each university plan integrates grant lines called contract-programme, which are defined on the basis of agreement around a series of objectives and actions focused on improving the fundamental work of universities. These tasks are teaching, research and management. As I say, these programme contracts are grants agreed, yes, agreed with each of the universities, with their governing teams. Well, I have to say that the analysis and evaluation of the indicators set out to measure and monitor the achievement of planned and agreed actions and objectives have so far been satisfactory. Obviously, the planning of new objectives and actions will have to be the subject of reflection, debate and agreement over the next year, in order to draw up the next university plan for the period 2019-2022. I want to mark, too, this indicator system Unibasq That the agency evaluates and Unibasq He has his reconnaissance at the European level, as a member of the EQA, the Bureau of European Quality. So this serves the evaluation of the degree of perfection of the university plan. On the other hand, there are a number of programmes to strengthen research, independently of the university plan, which are connected with scientific, technology, and innovations which this government inspires. These programs lead from various departments of this government among them from the Board of Education. These programs make a fair profit, among others, the university schools which constitute the Esska University System, and, of course, the University of the Basque Country. Mrs. problemon, the Euskade investigation is strengthened by this year's budgets, for a short, medium, and length of time has been strengthened in the scientific policy which will help to plan the actions under the college investigations of the Education Department. The commercial research center is a means of checking and financing a mass of investigators. It facilitates international interaction and raises new means of transferring the knowledge of manufactures and, in general, for the welfare of society. We have retained the study of the university above mentioned, plus the commitments of further development programs, corresponding to the necessary and financial contributions we have acquired. On the other hand, by the founding of the investigators, by the application of the expert research and the detection of the talent, by means of which the commitment to hold and bring it back, the human resources in the Euskade I+G+b are quaantitatively and qualiatively strengthened. This strength, in this globally globalised context today, must produce and attract researchers of the highest talent and capacity, in order to compete in the creation of knowledge among the nations. I will then transfer some figures and data on the investment of R+D+i in Euskadi linked to the Department of Education that I run. First of all, I would like to explain to you that the financing of university R & D is carried out through a mixed approach to stability-competitiveness, an approach that is in line with which countries carry out high-level scientific policies. As regards funding through the university plan, the research and transfer section of the UPV/EHU (i.e. as regards the stable contribution), the programme contract provides for an investment of €75.5 million for the period 2015-2018. Of these, 15 million are intended to promote and encourage basic and applied research and excellence, 27 million to training activities, 1.3 million to dissemination, 19 million to the library, and the rest to other programmes linked to the quality and internationalization of the public university. In summary, each year this Government allocates an average of EUR 19 million directly to the research section, which provides a stable framework for funding four-year R & D & I to the public university, which complements the regular contribution for salaries of teaching and research staff. On the other hand, we must add to this stable investment that was made in the rest of the universities of the Basque university system. In this case, the figure increases to EUR 103 million. In other words, Euskadi invests in every four years of the plan around EUR 26 million each year in R & D+i in universities. And I want to stress that this investment is not competitive. "Tala y como trasladé en mi compacrecia al inciio de lalegisatura, as I said, we shall continue to stake the total wager for excellence, specialization, and internationalization." These will be the keys to the success of our university studies and of our science policy. In financed the basic work of research, research groups, and excellences, we will continue to encourage the science policy of Euska. This policy is to draw talent from research and science, technology, and research operators, to keep it and train it on its own. We are convinced of the need to continue to bet decisively on excellence, specialization and internationalization as keys to the success of our model of university education and Basque scientific policy. For the achievement of these bets, the key piece of our model is supported in our Basque university system, of which the UPV/EHU is the fundamental piece. And as I mentioned at the beginning of the law, these are the engagements which my department has within the scope of the university and study: To develop basic science policy and research policy in the university and promote talent in quest of excellence. In the university and in the burgess (in principle of inquiry and in the arts of excellence) we are engaged to continue the development of science, technology, and innovation, and likewise to attract, encourage, and maintain talent. For this purpose, as you have mentioned, it is our intention to increase 5% per year to the science policy and the basic college firms, and we will cultivate this with the university. In order to develop this aim from a global point of view, we shall develop among others the euphorcal pattern of the professional careers of investigators, and with it we shall also develop the rule which is required to help investigators to integrate into the university system or in the eucalyptic centres.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Miss Trouble is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u95	It is common here, when a question is asked, not to enter and quote titles, and to quote them. And there are and exist, of course, but here also is that they are not being filled. I haven't heard anything about it. I haven't heard anything about why the university plan doesn't fit. It's agreed... Of course there are plans, and it's the last thing since 2015 to 2018. But not to fill up being... What's it for? And it's serious, I think, that it's serious, this year's story, that it's 303,97 million, and that it's only $4 million less, because necessity hasn't diminished. The bath larria ez da niri iruditzea, larria da atzo gerattzea eza ez da niri iruditzea... , that yesterday in the governing council of the UPV, when the budgets for 2017 were approved, be the rector herself who has to demand from the Basque government more money for the university, because it does not comply with the agreements signed between the two. What is really serious is that the top management body has to say that funding has to be increased, and that it is not increasing. The worst is that the members of the council have to censor harshly the investment made by the Basque government in the UPV. What is really worrying is that they have to tell us that "We will not be able to provide Basque society with the service that this demand for UPV/EHU, nor to compete with solvency in an increasingly demanding university context." There's the strain, there's when you say we believe in a college like that-words, but not actions. What are actions when they're planning that we believe in research, in college? Now, if we look at the United Kingdom, for instance, and look at the manufacturing strategy which they place, they will make two great investments, two large ones. Where are they going to do both? One at Manchester University and one at Oxford. I don't hear any of that here, I don't hear what sort of investments he's making in our public university or the other colleges of this system. And the point is, these restrictions are no longer cirripedes, that they've become commercial, and that we're in a very serious situation when we don't fulfill the commitments we've made to college employees. The consequence is that the preparation is suffering. But there are also new requests, for instance, that the Arma required the same salary as all the investigators in the formation, and that they might make an effort. What's he sitting on the table to fill out what the band wants? But even those who are already making themselves a trade are the restrictions given in ordinary discipline and function; Forty percent. Years ago, there are centers and departments with 40 percent reductions. It's the only thing that's got to do with it. I can't make it. It's a serious matter, too, not to give priority to the budgets designed for research in this college, which at this moment has shown the greatest production and splendor in the research world. It's a big problem, too, that the introduction this year will be 40% of the raw pre-produce, when the college system that I spoke to him or he confessed to him that it must be 1,2% of 2020 and that the Eugal Party Jaltist and Socialist Party agreement is 1,5%. And it's just the same with subjugates, not with what you have to do alone, but how poor the budgets for maintenance and improvement are, the new buildings that are needed, but also, in this situation, EukoY forces the university to take care of itself, because it doesn't receive enough public finances, and then to become more and more miserable. The use of temporary financing through a college plan is quite indispensable to support the structure of a public university. And it is plain, that which we also require is plain. We want to know whether in ten years the conditions for research will be improved, whether the buildings will be repaired, whether the workers will stabilize and work conditions, and whether the investigators in the Basque Prize will be able to remain in the Basque Country, and especially in the construction of our UUPV/EHU people. And it's the will and commitment to collect EH being a science of quality, research, technology, and college that it needs to be an advanced country. Then we won't give up because there's a better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u96	Thank you, Miss Trouble. Your time is over. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u97	Larrion andrea, as I said in my first intervention, this country has its own system of funding and monitoring of the Basque university system, at the University of the Basque Country, which is based on agreement and the determination of concrete objectives and priorities in a concrete time scenario. In my first speech I gave you some figures and data on the investment of R & D+i in Euskadi linked to the Department of Education, but as far as the competitive part is concerned... Because university funding is not only stable, fixed, no, it also has its competitive side. As far as the competitive side is concerned, from the Vice-Advisor of Universities and Research, the Department of Education invests annually a budget of 44 million in scientific policy, in competitive programmes linked to research excellence. These programmes are largely geared towards the recruitment of pre- and post-doctoral staff, new Ikerbasque researchers, associates and seniors. Also, within this amount is integrated that destined to finance the centers of excellence of the BERC network, an investment that amounts to 11 million euros each year, as well as the program Ikerbasque, in which we invest 12.5 million. Thus, investment in competitive programmes, once these amounts have been subtracted, amounts to EUR 20 million per year. By the way, the Donostia International Physics Center, the Materials Physics Center, the Biophysical Bizkaia Foundation, the BERC EH Group BCMAterials, Achucarro and Polymat, as well as the rest of all centers of excellence (BCAM, BC3, BCBL...), all have a direct link with the UPV/EHU. The UPV/EHU researchers are in these reference research centers, and they sign their articles and ask for their projects with the UPV/EHU affiliation. I mean, there's the UPV/EHU too. Thus, the Basque university system and the BERC centres, with the support of the Ikerbasque Foundation, form the research ecosystem of Basque university excellence, which is an ecosystem tremendously rich in people, projects and results, and which has funding amounting to 70 million euros a year in the Budgets of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. Well, as you will know, in all these programmes of the Department of Education, the largest beneficiary of the aid, directly or through the BERC centres and the Ikerbasque programme, is the University of the Basque Country/Euskal Herriko Unibertsitatea. In addition to this investment, other departments, such as the Department of Economic Development and Infrastructure, have competitive programmes to which the agents of the Basque Science, Technology and Innovation Network, which also includes UPV/EHU, can submit. You mentioned some in the professor's field on the way, too... I know, and as you have discussed it, just as it appeared in all yesterday's repentance, and in other petitions, we must discuss the rate of position imposed by the state, and this also causes the problem. This rate entirely prevents the satisfaction of the wants which occur in the working people's department, which limits the offer. We have repeatedly requested the Spanish Government to deprive us of this rate, partly because it is opposed to our jurisdiction, and partly because our administration is ours. On the other hand, there are other considerations connected with the organic law at the moment of hiring teachers, for instance, a higher degree than that of the most hired civil holidays, and now it's taking place at the Basque Country University. To help us with all this, we too are taking our steps. That is why, with a view to greater flexibility in recruitment and responding to the needs of our university system, in line with the contents of Law 14/2011 on Science, Technology and Innovation, as well as within university autonomy, he was transferred to a bilateral meeting with the Minister of Education, Culture and Sport, and subsequently in writing, the corresponding request for amendment of the Organic Law 6/2001 of 21 December of Universities. On the other hand, even when we are working on the level of fulfillment of the plan, and are connected with the teacher, it is certain that we must see that it was there that we should see that certain jobs were to be taken from the contractor to the ordinary expense, so that these jobs should be connected with the composition. This being true, we must also consider that there are technical obstacles to it. As we all know, it's not easy to add personal spots because it's expressly forbidden to take such measures. Thus, technically, this is a subject of study, and we are referring to it in order to determine whether the established regulation of the days is beneficial or not. And, as I said before, yes, it's true that a lot of financing is needed for college and research, and here, I think this government is making a great deal of bet for it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u98	Thank you, chief physician. fourteen points in theme list: "To question, the parliamentary members of the Society of Cristina Macazaga Sáenz together to the head of the Board of Education, the deputy physician of Education gave the nomination of directors of public colleges for a year's time on the 21st of February 2017." Mrs Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u99	Thank you, Mrs. President. Chief physician, good noon to everyone. On 21 February, the Vice-Adviser of Education notified the educational institutions of a resolution indicating an extension for one year in the appointment of the directors of the public non-university educational institutions under the Department of Education, who complete their term of office on 30 June 2017. A resolution affecting a total of 103 directors and directors of public non-university educational institutions, 51 of whom have submitted on their own initiative a request for the renewal of their term of office for a second period, until 30 June 2021. However, what about the 52 directorates that have not requested their renewal on their own initiative and therefore have no interest in continuing to be part of the centre's management? How many of them have formally resigned? Has the councilwoman wondered why these 52 directors have not asked for their renewal? How will the addresses of these 52 centres be selected, when the counsellor has not yet published the call and regulations necessary for competition in the public directorates? Are you going to stay an entire year 52 centers with no address? Aware of the complexity of the centres' addresses, and aware of the need and urgency that exists today to take care of the school leadership of the educational centres and to consolidate stable directions for public centres, from Elkarrekin We can ask the Education Advisor, Cristina Uriarte, to answer the following question: Why have not the necessary modifications been elaborated, processed and approved before in Decree 22/2009 of 3 February, which would have allowed the order to call for a new selective process of directions with project, given that since 2013 the need to introduce these changes is known? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u101	Mme. head of the table. Mrs. Macazaga, as expressed in your justification, the organic law of 8/2013, the improvement of education, made several changes in the fundamental regulation which regulates the selection of directors of public schools, in comparison of what was received by the Organic Act 2/2006, May 3, Education. This law was published at the State Bolton on December 10, 2013. You will know that in 2013 the selection was made by the election of the director, which was made before the record of the eau-LOMCE, and these departments were chosen according to our natural regulation, and therefore the majority of the educational tenors of each school was the one who chose the project which he thought best for his school. However, when after the LOMMCE Act, the article was changed, 135 of the Law of Education, and the majority of the voters were elected to the Administration of Education. The conditions of election were therefore visibly changed, and the unit of education was plainly opposed to this change.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u103	Andreak : This doesn't end here. And it is that there is an order of 4 May 2017 in which the Education Counsellor, in response to an appeal filed by one of the persons affected by the resolution of 21 February 2017, of the Vice-Adviser of Education, gives the applicant the reason, but the arguments are extendable to the case in general. This order leaves without legal basis everything planned on the extension of the addresses of the public centers, saying that it does not conform to law. Is this normal? Mrs Uriarte, from our point of view, once again we are faced with a patchy resolution, a resolution that you do rather try to cover up again the mismanagement of the Department of Education. The resolution of 21 February states that LOMCE has introduced changes in the basic regulations governing the process of selecting the addresses of public institutions, and that this is what obliges us to make changes to certain articles of our decree, which the Department of Education is currently dealing with. And the question is, are you processing it now? LOMCE is from 2013; the department has had four years to amend the decree. Four years. What has the department done at this time?, waiting for what happens in Madrid? How long? Do we not have enough autonomy to be able to amend our decree so that the addresses of the Basque centres are not the ones that have to suffer from the delay of the central government? In short, another case of mismanagement and disrespect with the addresses of the public school centres. Is this the Basque educational system of excellence that we are walking towards? Let's take care of the education staff, but let's really take care of it. Undoubtedly, another example of the care and respect this Government has for the Basque public school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u105	Mrs Macazaga, it is very surprising that it is the Elkarrekin group We can ask this question, when the whole Basque educational community has agreed to minimize the effects of the approval in the Spanish Parliament of the LOMCE, and one of the clearest has been the modification of the competences of the MROs (maximum representative body) in the selection of directors of centres. Don't forget nos preguntant por qué no hemos introdudo las modifiones en nuestro decreto antes para adecuego a la LOMCE. Let me explain why: This education administration, this change, the parents, and especially the professors and directors' associations on the Network and on the Network, did not change the fact that 2022/2009 Decrea, the 3d of February, regulates the procedure to choose and leave the director of the schools outside the Esinomia and the office of a single person. It didn't change in 2016, because in the state of Madrid the new majority would have been waiting for us to change this article. As you may know, the formation of the new Government was delayed in 2016, so the Decreeed Law of King 5/2016, December 9, was published on December 10th. Unfortunately, he did not introduce changes on this subject. Thus he gave up the discussion to a report of society and education. In this state of instability, the Board of Education has indicated that the nomination of the directors chosen in 2013 would extend until the new decree is transmitted. Thus, as the term of the administrative groups of certain schools is about to end, the new decree has not yet been admitted to regulate the selection of new directors for those schools. If in the case of directors who end the reign of June 30th, 2017, they have requested that the post should be renewed for another four years' term, and if the positive rating of their first age has been received, the representatives of their education will appoint directors of their college, and the term will be between July 1st, 2021, June 30th of June. And we're working with the others, but I really think it's pretty obvious to me that it's against LOMCE and that we don't fill it up for other things as quickly as possible. I don't understand you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 15th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Cianova Alonso of the EH gathering party made for the chairman of the Educational Council, the decision taken in the year of April 27th, 2017 on the whole board of the legislature." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u107	Good noon, everyone. Good afternoon, Mrs. Uriart. The 27th of April, the Chamber's All-Sergeur and unanimous agreement was agreed on the source of neurasutiate neutations. In this arrangement there were three things planned. First of all, to demand the Government of Madrid as a member of the Europe of RIC Research Partiers, and, on the other hand, a number of different measures of development in the Royal Council, including a fund of financing, and other measures of scientific purposes, to improve the connection with the university, and also to a hundred productives. After a month and a half of it has been signed, we would like to ask you this question: Do you think he's doing the deal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u108	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u109	Mrs. President of the Parliament, Mr. Casanova. To answer the question, which you make concerning the agreement made about the ESS-Glas parteruer in this affair, let me show you that this commoner was formed with two principal ends: on the one hand, that ESS Billo would be the residence of the neuter source of Europe by sprites in the State; and on the other hand it was the object of building an independent center of inquiry, specialised in the development of the science and technology of particles. Y sonn dos objectivos que nos deben guian y no debemos perder de vista. They will also allow me to recall that the agreement of this Parliament calls on two administrations and one body to address different actions. You raise them in your justification and you just quoted them. Well, as far as this Basque Parliament is concerned, I have to say that I do not have the right to reply to the State's compliance with this request if I ask the Government of Spain to apply for membership as a founding partner of ESS-ERIC within one month. It would have to be the Government of Spain itself that explained the steps it had taken to comply with the agreement. However, I can inform you that this Basque Government agreed with the Government of Spain to send a joint letter, which was sent to the ESS-ERIC council in May 2017, in which the Basque Government took note of its commitment to continue supporting the ESS European project, fulfilling the objectives that Euskadi has set itself and to which I referred earlier. In addition, I'd like to add that this fun made a special emphasis on the writing of science, technology, and development to defend the potentiality and value of the network, and even what the euschals use to the European project ESS-Purbage.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u111	Yeah. It's just, Mrs. Uriarte, you haven't answered me. It is clear that there are some things that are asked of other administrations, but you can tell me as the Basque Government, and in your case as President of the Governing Council, if you have any record of whether or not the Spanish Government has applied for membership in the ERIC. Do you know, or don't you? Or don't you want to tell me? Did you ask, or didn't you ask? I think it is time to be transparent on this issue. And that's one thing we don't really trust anymore. We do not trust the will of any of the parties, because it is being managed in a bad way. In Lund, at the headquarters of the European source, they have made a DAFO, an analysis of the risks of the project and of the opportunities, and the second risk is the instability generated by the Spanish State in the project. Because the Spanish State has not yet given guarantees that there will be continuity in its investment and that it will therefore provide supplies that are essential for a European project. It's just that we're making a fool of ourselves (the Euro-Ridicle, if you prefer), for not being able to give this project stability. And it's not the time to discuss whether or not you have to move on. As far as progress has been made, with the commitments that have been made, this project is irreversible, and therefore it is up to you to fulfil your part and to tell us whether the Government is fulfilling its part. You're the president of the board of directors. Has the board of directors been convened? With what agenda have you called? Well, if you're nodding me now, come and answer me, because that's exactly what we're here for, because we need a funding schedule, and we need it now. At the moment the management of the ESS-Bilbao project has three fundamental economic items: one to meet the tenders for the projects, for the tenders they have this year; one to pay the payroll, and a third to finance the possible redundancies on 31 December, because this is the time when the money is exhausted. Those are the calculations they're doing right now! You have plunged into instability this project and the people who are participating in this project, who, as I mentioned with them in jokes, have to be concerned about neutrons, not millions. And you have made everyone, from the workers to the management, more concerned about political and management problems than you have to do, which is to investigate and carry out a pointer project. Therefore, I ask you to be serious, because nobody here knows anything. And it is clear that in this agreement there are some of the requests that require a wider time frame, but the first one already gives a one-month deadline, and that one-month deadline is not being met. Be serious, because with this we are giving the show. And it is that they are also noticed, they are quite noticed that, as they were reproached in some of the previous interpellations that there has been with this topic, they lack affection for this project. But it's just that they're being noticed in the league, because they're sinking it into a situation that's really not receptional. We therefore ask you to call on the Governing Council, to approve the financing timetable, and to end with the culebrón in which you have turned what was called an exemplary project in the field of research. Because, as I said earlier, this process cannot go back, because it would leave the Bilbao project, but the whole of the European project in the air. I therefore tell you to be serious, to fulfil your responsibility, not to be shielded from what other administrations do or stop doing, but from the part of the Basque Government to bring and put on the table the commitments that have been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u112	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u113	To answer your question more specifically, I can say that I understand that the letter to which I referred and which was sent to the council after an agreement with the Spanish Government opens the door for Spain to apply for membership as founding partner within the deadline set by the ESS-ERIC, which concludes in April 2018. On the other hand, as you will know, the Spanish Government is in the process of final approval of its budgets; therefore, the second part of this Parliament's agreement is conditional upon such approval, and also the first. The approval by the State of ESS-Bilbao in 2017 is an authorisation so that it can be in debt of 18 million euros, an authorisation that implies the generation of a debt in ESS-Bilbao that must be reinstated. Moreover, such indebtedness must be agreed and approved by the ESS-Bilbao Governing Council, but when the budgets are there; an act which cannot be carried out for that reason, because the budgets of the State are not there, they are not approved. I would add that this Government, through the departments of Education and Economic Development and Infrastructure, remains concerned and busy with meeting the fundamental objectives, both in terms of its role as a means of making the Basque contribution to the European ESS project, and in the development of science and technology in the field of particle acceleration in Euskadi, which is a priority. In this connection, I should like to inform you that several meetings have been held with the management of ESS-Bilbao, with representatives of the Ministry of Economy, Industry and Competitiveness of the Spanish Government and with various agents. In addition, we participated in the council of the ESS-ERIC held on 1 and 2 June 2017 in Warsaw – which the director will have informed him, I suppose – in order to advance in the achievement of the aforementioned objectives, always defending the interests of Euskadi, which is the principle guiding this Basque Government and which, I understand, is a fundamental part of the agreement of this Basque Parliament. In addition, a number of working and coordination meetings are planned. In short, this fun is working all the time to fill up the goals that were agreed from the beginning of the project, and we're working from the 27th of April, 2017 to fill up the headlines of this Congress.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 16th point in the theme list: "The question is, that Eukene Aranas, the legislative member of the Podemos, made together to the head of the school of Education, concerning the modification of the school of the force of the genus from the model of mixed school." Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u115	Good noon, everyone. Mrs Uriarte, in the light of the results of the report "Gender equality in primary education and ESO in the Basque Country", do you believe that policies of equality and transformation of a school model should continue to be developed at the will of the educational institutions, or that they should be institutional, cross-cutting and compulsory?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u116	Thank you, Ms. Arana. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u117	Mahaiburu andrea, Arana andrea. The monographics on the first education of the Esuccanic Autonomy and the Second Prevention of the equality of genera in the Educational Education, is the result of a request from the First Prevention of Education and the Prevention of Generogen power, and of Euscal Autonomy in the necessary education systems of the Estnomy Institute in the Estnomia Erdi, as an essay on the first diagnostic state of the genus as an essay. The principal object of the First Extra, in the Education System of Education, is to Work the Prevention of Education, and of Genro power: to promote social relations between students in class, and to encourage the education model of education in society, to put aside stereotypes and parts of sex, which will be based on the integrated development of men, to educate students in all manner of neglect and violence, and to supply them with an unconditioned academic and professional orientation. The education of building a society based on equality and respect, appears to be of essential importance, wholly to the institutional character which is driven by the Board of Education and is indirect, with the aid of the Institution, to plan in the first stage by the agency of education, equality, and young men. In the second stage, the contributions of other agencies in the world of education and equality were received. X for the equality organized by the results. The plan presented itself in the Forum.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u119	Mrs Uriarte, the first Master Plan for the co-education and prevention of gender-based violence was the framework for this first report by ISEI-IVEI on gender equality in primary education and ESO. The conclusions of the report highlight that there is a significant gender gap in Basque school. It is a complete report, and practically all educational institutions have participated. Further conclusions, counselor: both boys and girls believe that women and men have different opportunities throughout their lives. The 2016 report on peer abuse highlights that 12.2% of primary school students say they feel excluded from being a girl. In the ESO the percentage is even higher. Discrimination is suffered by students who are considered gay (19.2 per cent) and 11.9 per cent by rumors of their sexual orientation. Mrs Uriarte, the ISEI-IVEI Gender Equality Report on Primary Education and ESO, notes that only 46% of primary plans address the detection and prevention of gender-based violence. Equality issues are not taken into account in half of the area or subject programming. 55% address these issues only in very specific activities. Although we recognize progress, the data reveal that much remains to be done for the transformation to a co-educational school model, as proposed by the Department of Education. The second master plan continues to promote the transformation to co-educational school, among other actions through a call for concerted and public educational institutions to "request the realization of projects of action that allow them to address the co-education and prevention of gender-based violence". In this way, the Department of Education places in the will, commitment or sensitivity of the centres the impulse of co-educational projects and the prevention of gender-based violence. 35 centers participated in the 2014 call for concerted centres; in 2015, 32; in 2016, 19 centers; this year I think there is no call. In the 2015 call for public centers 48 centers participated; in the current call there are only 28 centers targeted. Do you really think this data is good? These data tell us that the interest in participating in these calls (and I say interest) is gradually decreasing. But we strongly question this strategy. Do you know why? Because it cannot be left to educational institutions to promote co-education and the prevention of gender-based violence. No, Mrs. Uriarte. Because, moreover, as a matter of principle, policies that promote human rights cannot remain at the will of individual persons, they cannot remain at the will of the management of the centres, because then they are not carried out. And, in fact, as a button shows, the reports I just told you. The department's message with this call is: "Lords of educational institutions, co-education and prevention of gender-based violence are optional. You decide." Equality policies, which are responsible for ensuring an equal and just society for women and men, must be cross-cutting and institutional. But we also question this strategy because the data show that this call does not get the desired answer. And they don't modify it, they continue with the same option they've taken so far. We invite this Department of Education to rethink and reorient this strategy. Count on us. We will support and accompany all processes that place equality policies in their rightful place. But, look, we will be demanding whenever they are posed as accessories, secondary or optional, as is the case, Mrs Uriarte.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u120	Thank you, Ms. Arana. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u121	Ms. Arana, as I have remarked in the beginning of this legislation, and in the legislature I have expressed several others, in the Educational System, the combination of Hezality and Prevention of Genero-power, will be one of our occupations, the inclusive school we have collected in the government program to perform our commitment to perfection. We introduced it in the legislature, and this is the continuation of my guide plan in my first speech. With the institutional leader of the Board of Education, the first six months of this year, the first plan will be evaluated and the second crew has started. On the basis of the experience gained in the first plan, and with a more comprehensive approach, the actions initially identified and intended to be pursued with it will address the following areas: Actions aimed at students: stereotypes, interactional, use of spaces, prevention of gender violence, affective-sexual education, academic orientation... Actions aimed at including co-education and prevention of gender-based violence in the Centre's projects, documents and communication systems: training of the whole cloister, training and participation of family members, training and participation of socio-Community actors. As was done with the first plan, with the indirect and institutional character, and with the aid of the results, in the first stage of planning, the institutions and the motives of education, equality, and youth will be included. It will also be open to the contributions of the operators in the world of education, and it will consider in an integrated manner the rules field, the specific callings of schools and direction groups, and the editions and editions. The collaboration and leadership of the centres are absolutely necessary and essential, and they must have institutional support. We are talking about cross-cutting policies, which go beyond school, and hence the need for awareness and involvement of all spheres of life and the environment. But the policy of taxation should not be the way to get us to truly achieve an egalitarian society.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Gasmper Rascal Society to the head of Education, about the UUPV/EHU public University of the Basque Country. " Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u123	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Get out of the way. Good afternoon, everyone. Ladies counselors. Madam Counsellor, today we want to talk to you about the University of the Basque Country, the UPV, and about the rankings we are getting to know on the last dates. In this way, an important ranking, which is the one developed jointly by the BBVA Foundation and the Valencian Institute of Economic Research, the so-called U-Ranking for 2017, certifies that the five best Spanish universities are public, but none of them is the University of the Basque Country. Specifically, this general ranking, U-Ranking 2017, ranks eleven steps in which, according to the BBVA foundation and the Valencian Research Institute, the UPV appears in the sixth step. Also according to this ranking the best public university, or the one that has the best university system, is Catalonia, followed by Cantabria, Valencian Community, Balearic Islands and the Foral Community of Navarre. As for the teaching ranking, it doesn't leave us well either, because, of nine steps, the UPV is on the fifth step. Another recently published ranking, this by the newspaper El Mundo, places the UPV in position number 14. And another international ranking, like the Shanghai ranking, places us between 401 and 500. And the really important thing, the really remarkable thing, is that in 2012 the UPV held a remarkably better position, because instead of being between 401 and 500 we were between 301 and 400, specifically in 2012, position that we have not recovered in this international ranking, in addition to recognized prestige and acceptance. The question is, Counselor, why. What is happening so that our public university in Euskadi does not go back on the flight and is not among the best not already international, which could be a target perhaps too ambitious for you, but among the best in Spain? What do you think this situation deserves? And, more importantly, what are you going to do as a counselor, as a political leader, what is your government going to do to try to reverse this mediocre UPV position in international and national rankings? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u124	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u125	Mme. head of the table. Mr Semper, I want to stress that there is a wide diversity of rankings, indicators, dimensions, etc., and the dedication to being well positioned in them is not an easy task: apart from the university's own effort to have good results, it is also a huge effort for our universities, who must devote a lot of time and resources to providing data in multiple formats to the organizations that protect them, and often do not participate in all. Well, well, that universe ranking is very varied, as are the criteria and variables selected to build them. Thus, it is known that there are multiple state rankings, some of them promoted by private institutions, such as the BBVA Foundation and the IVEI Institute just cited, and there are also others such as the I-UGR ranking of Spanish universities, or the CYD ranking of the Knowledge and Development Foundation, the ranking of universities of the Everis Foundation, or the Observatory of the Investigative Activity of the Spanish University. As I say, among many others in the state sphere. Beyond these state-level rankings, there are other international rankings that cover a much broader and perhaps more relevant spectrum and enjoy greater prestige than regional or state-level rankings. They include the Quacquarelli Symonds, the Times Higher Education, the most recent CWTS Leiden Ranking, and the Shanghai ranking, which is the most internationally recognized. The Basque public university enjoys a good position in these international rankings. In fact – you said so – the UPV/EHU is among the top five hundred universities in the world according to the Shanghai ranking, which basically measures research. In addition, it stands out in the field of mathematics, being among the first 150 universities, as well as in the field of engineering, being among the first two hundred worldwide. It is also known that the Basque public university is among the 150 best universities in the world under fifty years old, according to the Times Higher Education Ranking. Entering this very important ranking at a global level is an achievement, an added qualification, as education and innovation are appreciable in it. Finally, both in the QS World University Ranking and in the CWTS Leiden Ranking our public university stands out in the field of physical sciences. However, it must be said that the euscal university system contains its own indications of the development of its schools, and that this development is what we must appreciate.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u127	I confess that in addition to a political interest – because anyone who engages in politics in Euskadi wants his public institutions, in this case the university, to have a position as relevant as possible – I have a personal interest, counselor. I am a graduate, and my degree is awarded by the University of the Basque Country, with which I want my university (because this will be good for me in the curriculum, right?) be in the highest positions of all rankings ever and for ever. But I notice a certain complacency. It is true that here we do everything wonderfully well, especially you, that this government has no fault whatsoever and that those of us who come here are little more or less than a party shower, but what is also true – although the first thing can be questionable – is that the public university of Euskadi is not considered a reference in national rankings. And it is true that perhaps you have sent it out very quickly, and it is that those data that do not convince you, therefore, listen, have a relative importance. But the teachers, the students, the educational community in general – not only the Basque, but the Spanish as a whole – and what is also telling us the important rankings, such as that of Shanghai, is that there is a lot of field of improvement. And the reasonable question, counselor, is what your government intends to do so that we will be at least back in the position of the year 2012 in the Shanghai ranking. What are we gonna do? What are you going to do? What will you do so that in the next rankings that are published in Spain, even if those rankings are very bad, the UPV will appear in the top positions. What are we gonna do? What are you going to do? Don't you? Well... You're not gonna do anything? Well, perfect, he's not gonna do anything.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u128	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u129	See, Mr. Semper, I don't think you want to understand why you're not interested. Simply the fact that there are different rankings has different criteria, different variables, and not all measure the same. And, as I also told you, not all universities present themselves to the different rankings. Therefore, you cannot measure everyone at the same level; that is, each one takes his or her references. And this is the case of the University of the Basque Country, which has its references put more in international rankings than in national rankings. Is that a question of university autonomy? It may seem to you anything you want to say. But also we have our own system of indicators that is evaluated by Unibasq, which is what really interests us to really continue that the university is meeting the goals that are being set. We also look at other data that transfer us to other rankings of international prestige, as I mentioned earlier, in which the UPV/EHU, as I told you, and also the rest of the universities of the Basque university system, are getting a good international positioning. And you're worried because you're a graduate of the University of the Basque Country. I'm a graduate, PhD, professor, researcher, and I'm very worried about my university too. On the other hand, we may say that Esscal University has advanced in teaching and study during the past few years, considering several tragedies. This year, for the first time, they've examined the classifications of the titles. However, it must be said that the information used in the analysis has not been sufficient for the examination of the differences between the university. And that's Para muestra un botón, as they say. As I have told you, the diversity of rankings is broad and we must look at everyone, especially those who are referenced, and more so if they are internationally. Let's not use the variety of rankings in an interesting and unconstructive way, which is what I think you're doing.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 18th point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Mine, the members of the Basque Group of the Popula, made to the head of the Security department as to the limits of the possibility of carrying weapons on the edge." Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u131	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. Madam Counsellor, following the amendment of Instruction 021, on the possession and use of Ertzaintza firearms, all authorizations to carry the prescribed weapon out of service will be revoked from 26 August. At the Terrorist Threat Assessment Board of the Ministry of the Interior in late May, it was decided to maintain level 4 of terrorist alert, and it was stressed that there would be no relaxation by the State Security Forces and Bodies. And in these circumstances of high risk of terrorist attack, the political and police officials of other state bodies and security forces and other autonomous police, such as the Mossos d ́Esquadra, advise to carry the regulatory arming out of service at all times. However, in Euskadi, instruction 21, which, as I say, regulates the conditions under which the ertzains can carry this weapon, and from now on they will only be able to do so in exceptional cases. At a time when we are on a level 4 terrorist alert, when a campaign against the security forces has been alerted, and especially against women police officers, it is not understandable that the tools with which to deal with terrorist actions, in order to safeguard the very integrity of the agents and of the Basque citizens, should be undermined. Therefore, Madam Counsellor, I would like to ask you the following question: What is the reason for the modification of Instruction 21 and for this restriction on the possibility of carrying Ertzaintza weapons?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u132	Thank you, Miss Llanos. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u133	Thank you, ma'am. First of all, Mrs Llanos, you know very well that in the Ertzaintza they carry weapons all and all the Ertzaintzains that they have to carry in relation to the security functions that they provide and that they have assigned. But obviously the fact of carrying a regulatory weapon has to entail its corresponding regulation. And the instruction to which you have referred, the instruction number 21 of the director of the Ertzaintza, regulates these aspects, and establishes as a general criterion that after the end of the working day the regulatory short arms must be deposited in the premises authorized for this purpose in the respective police units, whenever possible. The instruction states that this generic obligation is fully compatible with the obligation imposed by the Basque Police Act itself to intervene always, at any time and place, even when not in service, in the defence of law and public security. It is considered that these interventions that may occur out of service are of an occasional and unpredictable nature, and that by their very nature they are not configured with the same rates of intensity and technical-political effectiveness as those that may arise during the service. The instruction also provides that, exceptionally, a second regulatory weapon may be possessed, and this exceptionality is determined by the Ertzaintza solely on the basis of operational effectiveness criteria. From there, then, look, associate what an administrative regulation of permits to carry the regulatory weapon out of service – a task that we had been waiting for some time – with the risks of jihadist threat seems to me simple and plainly that it is unjustified, and that it is an unnecessary alarm.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u134	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u135	Madam Counsellor, as I said to you, we are at a time when, following the Paris bombings or the London bombings, it is obliged to provide measures to safeguard the physical integrity of our agents and thereby safeguard the safety of the citizens. You say, as you have rightly said, that section 33 of the Basque Police Act obliges officers to intervene at all times. If there's a situation like London, how do you expect an agent to act? What are you doing with the terrorist, if you find him attacking and he can't carry the gun because he hasn't been authorized? I'm telling you, there are other cops, like the Mossos d ́Esquadra, who are re-co-men-dan-do to the agents who at all times carry the gun. It is no longer that they do not restrict it; it is that they are recommending that they carry the weapon at all times and times, so that they can safeguard their own security and in this way also that of the citizens. Look, for a long time the agents have said that their department has not put sufficient material resources in front of this new threat, mainly with regard to armaments, uniformity and vehicles. This is now joined by the difficulty you make of carrying weapons. Other European police are being questioned precisely because of this issue, precisely because of the ban on carrying weapons, and they are changing their minds. The Erne trade union has on some occasions denounced this issue as well. And you're talking to me here about alarm. Look, I'm not surprised. When I made it clear in this House that sufficient action was not being taken in the face of a threat such as the jihadist, you told me that you were causing alarm. When the Erne union put it on the table, you said it was causing alarm. When last year, at the feasts of Santurce, the Ertzaintza said that the operation that had been organized was incorrect, they were accused of causing alarm, even of threatening to complain. But what a coincidence!, what they then proposed, is what the city council has now done. So, the city council is now causing alarm? Madam Counsellor, it is not a matter of alarm; it is a matter of perhaps a successful unfortunate and that we should all avoid, and then that instruction is changed. And I don't want to have to come here one day to question you that a misfortune has occurred and that according to this instruction that misfortune could not be avoided. I am here to ask you to take these measures, because it is your duty, because there is nothing worth regretting afterwards. To take them first, to safeguard the integrity, as I say, of the agents, and of the citizens they have to defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u136	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u137	Thank you. I also hope that I do not have to question myself about that issue that you have raised, nor because the out-of-service regulatory weapon has been used in an inappropriate manner. With the direct threat of ETA and the harassment of its most radical environment, security and personal protection measures were intensified in Ertzaintza, leading to the establishment of a procedure for the use of off-duty regulatory weapons. As a result, many permits were issued. And what will be done now with this new instruction is an administrative update of the situation. This is to re-regulate permits to carry the regulatory weapon out of service, simply and simply that, and for that a three-month period has been set, to update permits to carry the regulatory weapon out of service. I believe that, by saving distances, it is easy to understand that, as in any other matter, we citizens are obliged to renew our permits (the DNI, the driving licence, the hunting licenses..., I don't know, car insurance, renew and regularize the situation every time we are required, which is what we have to do), that in this case, the ertzainas that have a particular weapon are also obliged to make those renewals within the deadlines that correspond to them, therefore, the same happens in the case of the carrying of the regulatory weapon out of service. I said this at the beginning of my speech: in the Ertzaintza they carry weapons all and all the ertzainas that they have to do in relation to the security functions they have assigned, and out of service as well. Also, but only on the basis of the circumstances and to be duly justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u138	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "To ask the question, "Myria Llanos Gómez Espulic Groups of Laws to the Chief of Security, about the publishing ceremony of the Border." Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u139	Commissioner, last June 4th, the Erandio Ertzaintza was held at the Ertzaintza facility, the annual ceremony of honouring and honouring the people and the women of Ertzaintza in recognition of their police work, and of honouring the deceased in service. This event was presided over by the lehendakari Iñigo Urkullu, who was accompanied by the highest officials of his department, the Department of Security, and the Ertzaintza, with you at the head, representatives of the Secretariat of Peace and Co-existence, the Association of Ertzains and Family Victims of Terrorism, and trade union representatives, as well as family and friends of the honored persons. However, the representatives of the Basques and Basques (i.e. us parliamentarians) were not invited to this event. In the view of the People's Group, it is not justified that representatives of citizens should not be invited to participate in an act of tribute to those who are at the service of defending the rights and freedoms of all citizens. We would therefore like to ask you, Commissioner, what is the reason why we parliamentarians, who are the highest representatives of the Basques and Basques, were not invited to pay tribute to our police on 4 June.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u140	Thank you, Miss Llanos. To answer, Mrs. Beltán de Heedia.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u141	Thank you. In the previous legislature, already in 2013, in relation to this celebration we adopted four decisions, four decisions shared with Adepyr (Asociación de Ertzainas Pensionistas y Retirados) and Aserfavite (Asociación de Ertzainas y Familiares Victims of Terrorism). The first decision was to match the tribute to the victims of terrorism and to those who died in service with the giving of decorations and congratulations to the police. Decorations and congratulations granted annually, pursuant to the decree regulating the declaration of an act of service and the regime of honours and congratulations of the Ertzaintza, which is of October 2012. We adopted a second decision, which was to establish the date of its celebration, and we agreed that the event would always coincide with the first Sunday of June. A third decision was to request each year that this act be presided over by the lehendakari, as it has been. And we also thought it important to give it a rotating territorial character, according to the deployment of the Ertzaintza and the physical possibility of doing so in the nerve centers of the organization. The first year we did it at the Basque Academy of Police and Emergencies, in Arkaute; the second year was in the central of Erandio; the third, in 2015, in Oiartzun, and back to the academy. From the beginning it has been an act that focuses primarily on the families of the victims, and on the decorated staff and their families. And open, of course, to all and all the ertzainas who showed their desire to participate. For our part, nothing has changed since the first moment when, as I said, we adopted these agreements with the association of pensioners and pensioners and the association of relatives and victims of Ertzaintza. We continue to organize and celebrate this event each year with the same criteria. Of course, at no time have we ever considered that there would be any other kind of institutional representation other than the victims, the tributed ones and the inertzainas themselves and people congratulated or decorated. And, I insist, under no circumstances has this event been done and organized on an exclusive basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u142	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u143	Madam Counsellor, you have said this on other occasions, and I share it: if there is an institution in Euskadi that is well valued that is Ertzaintza. It is and has always been a nearby police force, a police force committed to rights and freedoms, a police force that has put at risk and on many occasions has given life for Basque citizens. That's why she's so recognized for it. And, as I say to you, the representatives of Basque citizenship in this House should be able to participate in that tribute. I don't know if what you're trying to tell me is that it's the families of ertzainas murdered by ETA or the families of the decorated ones who don't want the representatives of Basque citizenship to be in that tribute in which we have been at other times. I attended that kind of tribute when the Home Secretary was then Mr Ares. And why have we attended and why do we want to attend? First, because, as I said, all Basque citizens must recognize and pay tribute to those who safeguard their rights and freedoms. But if there's anyone who owes Ertzaintza even more, that's the People's Group. Because the Ertzaintza for a long time has been a guarantee that we have been able to carry out our political work despite the terrorist threat. And we want to participate in that recognition, in the recognition of those who were killed for safeguarding that we could preserve life and preserve the possibility of doing politics and our security. And also to all those who, without having been killed by ETA, have given their lives in safeguarding rights and freedoms, and to those whom they have honored. I think you're confusing one thing. He says "we don't exclude anyone." Usually you don't go where you're not invited. The invitation should be addressed to you. It is the Basque Government that should invite all representatives of the citizenry to participate. But you don't do it, and you don't do it for a very clear question: because you believe that Ertzaintza is the police, I'm not going to say the Basque Nationalist Party anymore, but the Basque Government, that it is not the police of all political groups. And that is precisely why they do not want to participate in any political group in that tribute. And I believe that precisely because you are the most responsible for Ertzaintza, which is the guarantor of the rights and freedoms, as I say, of all citizens, you should invite the representatives of the citizenry, who are the parliamentary groups, and ensure that we are present in that act. And I ask you to invite us on future occasions, because, as I say, if not, you will be showing a sectarian and exclusive attitude. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u144	Thank you, Miss Llanos. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u145	Mrs Llanos, I have explained to you the basic criteria we adopted in the celebration of this tribute. The rest, the arguments you have raised here, as well as distorting and demagogicizing... Because you know there are other events celebrated by the department and with the Ertzaintza to which you are invited. They are criteria above all – I told you before – focused on the protagonists and the recognition of the victims and those who are the reason for recognition and decoration. Criteria that are also extended to family members, as well as to institutions represented by persons decorated, especially by Ertzaintza itself. And, I insist, we have never considered the celebration of the act from criteria exclusive to anyone, and much less towards this institution, which is the Basque Parliament. Anyway, five years we've been celebrating it the same way. I believe that it would have been far more effective than, before presenting this question in a full monitoring session, after five years of holding such acts under the same criteria, it would have been enough for him to raise his interest in attending this event five years later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-16.u146	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and fifty-seven.
