ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "Motion, introduced by the members of the Casanova Alonso EH Collector, in the presence of the descent which had been suffered during the last few years, was the necessary task of applying to the general rise of EAE Solarda. Discipline and final resolution. Mr. Casanova, whenever you like, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u1	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Today, again, we'll talk about bachelors here. For two important reasons. On the one hand, because wages are important in themselves, and on the other hand, they are bad at home. We talk again and we'll talk again, if at least it's on our team that we're going to talk about this thing whenever we need to, until things get settled. Since this motion is the result of an interpelation, and, as is well known, we had a chance to speak about this matter recently, in a single control unit. And that's where we made a pretty strict description of the situation from our team's point of view. I'm not going to prolong it with the numbers again, but I think that so many main facts, which confirm this thesis I've at first fired, must be put back on the table. We said that our wages are important, and we think there ought not to be too many explanations about it, because there is agreement about it. And I also said that wages are bad for us. And I'll put the indicators I used just for that purpose on the table again. According to the name "Ecusta anal de costes laborales," according to the incest of the EEks High School, there has been a loss of 8,5 of purchase in this Erdigo autonomous autonomy, as far as Soliti is concerned, between 2008 and 2016. Another indicator was used, which was the loss of the ability to buy "Zindice de precios del misero," between 2008 and 2016. In the nominal Terminos (that is to say, not only the faculty of buying, but the nominal ascent and inflation, but in absolute terms), nominal wages have been reduced from 2013 to 2016. And it's true that this week we've known there's been a small ascent in the last few years, 1,15 in the nominals...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u2	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u3	...that is: There has been a small ascent in recent years, but as this as it is below inflation, it confirms the loss of buying instead of being a real ascent, which has been tendency in recent years. It's a disturbing situation and we bring back the subject. Some will say that this legislature has expressed the position in this matter a few months ago by an agreement in May. This arrangement was approved by the initiative of EHGG, and related to the protection of the party supported by the Government, and, independently of its protection, some of their contributions. In this arrangement we demanded that several parts of the work-form should be suspended, and that we should act upon a general ascent in the Solitum, and also in order to enable us to do what we had to do, and, by means of which, to establish a system of worthy agreements and worthy commerces. So why do we bring the same subject back to this legislature seven months later? For a simple reason, this agreement has not been fulfilled. This agreement was not directed to the government. It was addressed to society, and exactly to social motives, but it has not been fulfilled. We thought, at the moment, that this arrangement and the moral position or authority of this parliament would be received by the operators against the advancement of wages, and that they would change their position. That's why we decided on this arrangement, and without a certain estimate, to make a general request for the sake of the elements I've just mentioned. But we see that this agreement has not been accomplished. And this agreement was the chief recipient, the sole cause of what was required. And the only reason that was against what was decided was the patriarchal. And the patronala didn't do it. And the patronala didn't pay any attention. And we're not going, as Polla Records used to sing, "vamos a hacer un consensus para meterlotro de un marco, qué monada." Our intention is not to make up our minds to put it into a frame, to put that frame into a pond, to put it in a hard box, and shut it with seven keys. Deals are made to take effect. Deals are made to make things change and move. And this agreement, even though it has been a potentiality, has not performed its purpose. It's been seven months and inclinations have been maintained, and care has been kept where they were before. I mean: On the roof of the operating roof against a general increase of wages. Therefore we think that it is necessary to bring the matter here again, and to increase the degree of experience and esteem. If we think against what we said, that is, how socially the salary is to increase, I think we can only think of one. That operator is a patriarchal. Here a chief of the Government has said that there must be a state of wages, and the majority of the parties say so. In this discussion of the world, not only the left parties, not only the unions, but the various refesections, which are sufficiently systems, have contributed to the increase of solita (for instance, Mario Draghi itself). But the impact hasn't been in the Basque Country, pay hasn't moved. And the patriarchal is not ready to move. The Patronal does not raise his wages because he has legal instruments for that purpose, and because he has the will to take advantage of them. Where's the patriarchal Basque? I'll give you orders: 24, 4,8,1,82. These are not the mysterious numbers of this famous series of Lost. "24" is the contractor's contractor rate of societate tax obtained by the prosecutor: 24th '4.8' is at best the most conservative data of which the patronial has been bribed during the past few years. It is in this society, "1,82," the quantity of money which in this country invests itself in study and development, which goes down the year, and separates us from Europe. The plans of this Patronal are as follows: to pay less taxes, pay less wages, and invest less in study and development. Which leads us to defeat, society, and economy. If wealth does not divide itself properly, and does not invest itself properly in the future of this people, and in the study which is strategic, we are ill at ease. Patronal has imposed a lock on the tools that the form of work gives him, and the descent is not a result nor a result, but the downfall is the one that is sought with the blockade. I mean, the patronial has blocked all the work together and has blocked the labor agreements so they can lower their salarys. And it also has a very active, very active position, and it makes a very narrow mark on the political world. Here, in Parliament, we talk about the salaries, and a spokesman from the government says that wages must be raised, and that very day in the newspapers, in the same headline, he says no. And I'll show him about his youth. "Lakua's call to raise wages strikes again with the resistance of the employer." The unions don't come out here. The day after a spokesman for this government said that wages must be raised, trade unions must not leave, no other socio-economic agent went out to say that that should not be done. She's going out to work. And, therefore, it is time to call things by their name: in this country, who does not want wages to go up is the employer, and who has to do the sites to get wages to go up is the employer, and more specifically Confebask, an organization that is conforming to being the Basque branch of the CEOE, and, if you hurry me, still not that, because, given the latest movements in the Spanish State around collective bargaining and the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage, it seems that the CEOE is passing to Confebask on the left, in the same way, on the other hand, that Rajoy is passing on the left to this government. We even know, and we will be told once again, that it is the social partners, through collective bargaining, who are responsible for the rise in wages, and, indeed, from a technical point of view, that is the case and that is unquestionable. But from a political point of view much more can and must be done from the government, and much more should also have been done from this House, because, of course, because EH Bildu's proposal does not have the support of the groups supporting the government, much more can and must be done to raise wages. Even a newspaper like El País, which is evolving to march forced, we all know, towards increasingly conservative positions, this same week editorialized, on Tuesday, about the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage in the State: "However, the announced rise remains short in more than one sense. It should be bigger, of course, but the main problem is that there is also a need for a social pact, politically driven by the Government, to raise wages in agreement on a stable basis over the next few years. The Executive has the resources to push it, if it wishes, no matter how much negotiation is between the social partners." It obviously refers to the central executive, but, by changing what needs to be changed, we can apply this same reflection to the Basque executive. It is not in his hand to promulgate by decree a general increase in wages, but it is in his hand, in the hands of this Government, through its political action, to pressure more effectively those who do not want to raise wages to actually raise them. Because I do not think it is necessary to repeat too much the reasons why it is essential to raise wages; Mr Azpiazu even focused on technical issues, in the sense that the economy needs increasing wages in order to generate more demand. That's what he realized... And it is that, I say, I am not mentioning here to great thinkers on the left: already Henry Ford, when he realized that he made many cars, then he also realized that he needed people to buy those cars, and that if his workers didn't have a salary enough to buy a car, to whom would he sell them? It is something so absolutely elementary that it is already becoming a problem even for those who approach the economy from a more conservative perspective. But it is that, in addition to being necessary for the proper functioning of the economy, the widespread rise in wages is a first-class moral and political requirement. Because the wealth that is generated in this society, which is already more than the one that was generated in 2008, is increasingly left in less hands, because it is not distributed either through wages or through taxes, and we are also going backwards, as we have seen with the last regressive reform. I ask the government for more assertiveness, more strength, more decision when it comes to emplacement of the employer. And it is also true that, of course, when we see how the government behaves when it is up to them to be employers, then, logically, that is where the doubts come in. Because a government that has been the creator of a loss of purchasing power among officials no longer of 4.8 or 8.5 %, as has happened in all wages, but of 15 %; a government with a temporary rate of 35 %; a government that sells as a success a hypothetical wage rise for this year that continues to consolidate the loss of purchasing power; a government that comes out in absolutely all photos with the employer, in absolutely all events, in absolutely all the sauros, and yet is standing on a permanent war with the unions, because logically we can have little expectations about its ability to pressure and its own willingness to pressure the employer. And we were also demanding steps along the field-range route for euscalal purposes, and we proposed and brought here something the president had said. In words, it was the third point of our motion that the President expressed in the ploney of general policy. And to-day is given a very odd paradox: The president's party will vote against something the president said, even though he's given the opportunity to vote for this point. It's essential to create a sphere for eupscal relationships, and it's also essential to produce a social concept of eupscal framework. The presence in the Spanish state, and the dependence of the handsomest of the Spanish State, has a just influence on the quality of people's lives. Why are wages frozen? Why are the pensions frozen? Why are labor relations blocked? Why do blocked replacement rates prevent sufficient numbers of staff? Why is there a rule of spending and should priority be given to paying the debt? Why do we have a deficit limit that does not meet the real needs of our economy? Why did they liquidate our boxes? I could follow the list, but time is running out. Because you decide in Madrid, you decide out of here. And we are now in an important debate on the future status of this country, and some want to establish a dichotomy between things to eat and decision-making frameworks, between things to eat and the right to decide. The things of eating have a lot to do with what is decided, with who decides, with how it is decided, and with where it is decided, because we are convinced and convinced that the correlation of forces and the very economic structure that exists in Basque society would lead us to make very different and much more favourable decisions for a social majority in this country if we had the capacity to decide, to regulate, to administer here our own resources and the regulations that refer to the economy. Unfortunately, today the Government and the parties supporting the Government are going to profile themselves again in the face of a problem as serious as that of wages, they are going to act again as employers' squires. And it's just, logically, this...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u4	Please finish, Mr. Casanova.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u5	... is an employer who applauds the government's industrial policy (among other things, because it is designed by them), who imposes fiscal policy on the government, and who rejoices at how the government is plunged into passivity while the wages are sinking. We have already seen in this bipartisan government what has given up everyone: the PSOE has given up in its left-wing proposals, and the PNV has moderated its proposals for national affirmation. That's why the employer is happy, the PNV takes care of its wallet, and the PSOE takes care of its flag.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u6	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Passing over to the teams that've been running the corrections: Together, Poedemus. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u7	Good morning, congressmen. It seemed to our parliamentary group that this initiative brought in by the EH Bildu group was now a timely initiative. It is not just because of the content, which we agree with for the most part and because of the fundamental part, but also because of what has been referred to: that this Parliament approved a motion just a few months ago, an initiative in which the need for wage increases was already recognized. An initiative that my group abstained from considering insufficient, inter alia, because we felt that the employer should be identified as a beneficiary of the current situation of impoverishment of the working class and as a motivator of the reforms that had led us to this situation. We basically agree with the content of the proposed initiative. We logically agree with the need for wages to rise. In recent years, since 2010, employment income has lost five percentage points in its weight compared to gross domestic product, and has lost four percentage points compared to the rise in the CPI, rising by an average of four percentage points below the increase in the CPI. And we also agree in this case on the initiative when it talks about the employer, Confebask and all the employers, because, as I said, they are responsible for the situation, because it is ultimately those who promote and those who have promoted the reforms of the world of work in recent years. Every time a job reform is going to come out or is planned, if we want to know what it's going to be or how it's going to be approved, we just have to look at the documents they're promoting, they're taking out the foundations linked to the employer a few months earlier, and there we'll find out what the future job reforms are going to be like. And we also agree on the need for a new framework of labour relations, although we have a different point of view and think that, above all, the fundamental thing, where we believe that we have to focus, is the characteristics of that framework of labour relations: fundamentally a framework of labour relations that is at the service of workers, not a framework of supposedly impartial labour relations, so that differences can be resolved between them, because in the current capitalist system power relations are always in favour of the employer. And, therefore, the framework of labour relations, in our view, has to be a tool for workers to make a real and effective defence of their rights and to compensate for that power relationship inherent in our system. We believe that the current situation of impoverishment of the working class, of loss of purchasing power in the wages of workers, is not a short-term situation; it is a situation that has been made possible by the imposition of measures and reforms deliberately, and that they did not seek a short-term situation to get out of the crisis or to deal with the crisis, but they used the crisis as an excuse to enable a new situation – which is what we have today – where workers are in a situation of weakness and where capital can maintain its profit rates at the cost of impoverishing the cost of labour. These reforms and this situation are therefore coming to stay. Neither the economic recovery nor the overcoming of the crisis alone will bring about the recovery of working conditions and the purchasing power of workers. We'll have to fight him. We therefore believe that it is important for parliaments and governments to take a clear stand on the side of workers. That is why we were presenting an amendment to the whole, a complete amendment, where we pointed out a number of issues which we believe were identifying quite well and extensively changes which we believe must be made and which we believe can be made at this time from this autonomous point of view. First, we thought it important to continue to criticise labour reforms, not because it has become a left-wing mantra to continue criticizing the two labour reforms (the one of 2010 of the Socialist Party and the one of 2012 of the People's Party), but because these two reforms are the main tool that the employer has been endowed with to be able to implement the changes that have led us to this situation. They have directly affected wages, already since the 2010 reform, with the reduction in the conditions of compensation (the reduction to thirty-three days), a direct impact, and an indirect impact, through the weakening of the positions of trade unions in collective bargaining, among other things through the loss of ultraactivity. The 2010 reform remembers that it was also possible thanks to the abstention of the PNV, and we think it is important to point this out. We also propose, when we talk about wage increases, that wages should be raised by an average of 3%. It is not a figure that we are making up; it is a figure that is linked to current and projected economic growth, and therefore it is the figure necessary to be able to start reversing the loss of purchasing power of workers. And we propose that we make a clear statement on a minimum wage of EUR 1,200, which is also not a figure that my parliamentary group is making up. It is a figure that accounts for 60% of the average wage in Euskadi. At present, the inter-branch minimum wage in Euskadi is well below this figure, only 30%, while in Europe it is 41%. So, we don't make it up, it's an optimal figure, and it's also a realizable figure. Because some will say that we have no competence to establish an interprofessional minimum wage, and it is true, but there are tools to establish a minimum wage in Euskadi through collective bargaining. If this element were accepted in collective bargaining, it could be perfectly established in collective agreements that the minimum acceptable wage in Euskadi is of these 1,200 euros, and that below we are not facing a decent wage for workers. We also propose a solidarity wage policy, and we believe that this issue is important: lower wages must be increased in percentage terms, because in these years inequality has also increased between lower and higher wages. The difference between the lowest and highest wages in Euskadi has increased four points in recent years. This is also a clear measure also aimed at gender equality. As was well seen when the Labour Relations Council appeared here, the most precarious wage sectors are also the most feminized sectors, and therefore a solidarity measure where the lowest wages increase per cent is also a measure aimed at equality between men and women. Because this gender inequality is very explicitly seen in the world of work, where women continue to have lower wages than men. We also put in place a high-wage policy, which the Government bets on incentivizing a high-wage policy. This is a purely economic measure if you want, because it is based on contradicting that position that employers have, that see wages simply as a burden, when in reality wages, in the system in which we live, are absolutely necessary – it has been said before too – to maintain or increase demand. Because an economy could not be sustained if there is no domestic demand, and the demand is created by workers with their wages. We also put in place another set of measures to stop the fall in wages in situations of companies in crisis. And we also raise the need to link wage increases to companies working with the public administration. And that is perfectly in the hands of this government. Therefore, we propose a series of measures that are feasible and that we think are important, beyond making calls to the employer, because we know that the employer is not going to listen, we must press it. And it is very important – and this is the part that seems very important to us – for the employer to accept wage increases, it is very important to change the frameworks of relations and to re-enable the workers to tools to compensate for the situation of inequality, the situation that this system generates, where the employer always has a situation of strength with respect to the workers. We, as I said, look forward to the initiative presented, but we have presented an initiative that seems to us to be more complete and that seems to us necessary at the moment. Nothing more. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u8	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Passing over to the teams that haven't issued any corrections: Basque Popular. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u9	Thank you very much, Madam President. Man, I don't know anyone who doesn't want his salary to go up, and of course, if someone says he's too high, I haven't seen anyone give up part of that salary because he thinks it's too high. Therefore, everyone agrees that salaries should be raised. Now, this is a debate that we have had in this House recently, and I do not know whether we will continue to have it, as some have threatened us, every quarter or every session. Now, I think we are all aware that wages in Spain are decided by agreements between trade unions and employers in collective bargaining. I have heard the two previous spokesmen complain a lot that employers Confebask apparently refuse collective bargaining. I don't know if he refuses as much as you say. I have seen some unions that have refused to negotiate, collective and not collective, that is, to go to any negotiating table, but well, everyone will have the responsibility they have. But this is a specific function of the social partners, both trade unions and employers. It is not a function of this Parliament. This is not our function! On the other hand, in the functions that the Administration can have, or the policy, that would be the minimum wage, for, well, there has been an agreement precisely the other day, to raise the minimum wage and that in 2020 it will reach 1000 euros in twelve pay. It is assumed that if the minimum wage rises, the other wages will also rise. Now, to say that all wages have to go up, Mr Hernández, and that they can never go down, Mr Hernández, for what do you want me to say to you! In this speech of both I have missed the mention to the unemployed. I mean, let's say now that we can take more, better, measures to improve wages, because employment is growing (half a million jobs more or less a year), and then there is more room. Now, we still have a lot of unemployment. So let us be asked today, as we are being asked, that under no circumstances, even in companies in crisis, can wages be lowered... Look, in a company in crisis what needs to be saved is as much employment as possible, or at least that's what some of us have long argued is what the Basque Government has to try to do when a company is in crisis. What do you mean, you can't lower your wages? Well, if they're to be lowered, they'll have to be lowered. And, in fact, the unions have reached agreements on this issue, on this issue, these years, and we all know them. So what approach are you taking to these issues? With the policy, it's high wages... Well, the policy of high wages seems to us all very well; the issue is who pays them, where the money comes from. Mr Hernández told us that companies working with the Basque Government are forced by the Basque Government to have higher salaries. I suppose it will be at the cost of increasing the bill to the Basque Government, with which in the end it will be with the taxes of all those with whom those high salaries are maintained. Sure! Well, this doesn't add up. They don't square these things that we're considering. And I'm not going to extend much longer, because, I'm telling you, I think everyone will be in favour of the salary being raised, I don't know anyone who's against the salary being raised, including you (I guess everyone wants the salary to be raised, I also want the salary to be raised); now, what we're not going to do in any case is to tell either the unions or the employers what they have to agree on in their collective agreements, which is what we've been proposed here today. You tell us that certain things have to be included in the collective agreement. Hey, that's not our job. That is the role of trade unions and employers! Or are we going to jump to trade unions and employers, and what we are being asked is that this Parliament should tell us what collective agreements are like, what they have to say and what they have to do? Is that the approach that they are taking to us, and that the Basque Government is dedicated to doing these things? Well, we don't see it. And, Mr Casanova, the things to eat have a lot to do with who decides it, how it decides it and where it decides it, and you are absolutely right – I agree with you on something for the first time – because the most tangible example is what has happened in Catalonia with the things to eat (who decides, how it decides and why it decides it), because it has not taken into account the citizens, all the Catalan citizens, and other things have taken precedence. And when that happens, then, what has happened in Catalonia economically. And let's see the salaries in Catalonia, the employment in Catalonia, how they are after, let's say, this play that some have had for two years. And of course we, obviously (what do you want me to tell you!We are not supporters, I think we have made this clear for a long time, and we are in favour of the opposite, which is stability, job creation... And some companies will be able to raise salaries more because they're doing very well, and others won't be able to raise them so much, and others may have to lower them to keep up. So, come here with the generality that you have to raise all salaries by 3%, because... There will be companies that can climb them up to more, that there are, and there will be others that would already like to be able to climb 3%, or 2 or 1. And I think what we have to do here is, in short, a little realism, and help companies get better, and there are more and more jobs and there are more and more salaries, because in that I think we all agree. But this isn't a generic thing. We're not in Cuba. In Cuba the Castro family can decide whether to raise or lower the 100 euros a month that doctors charge, but here this does not work that way, thank God and thanks to everyone else we have made sure that doesn't happen. And let's hope it never happens.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u10	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u11	Gracias. Good morning, everyone. We would like the social partners, all of them, to understand that they have all the political and institutional support to seek that understanding on the protection of social rights, which are a demand for workers, but which are also a factor that will benefit companies for their competitiveness. And as the Socialists understand it, we would like what we support today to end by opening the doors to the Social Dialogue Bureau with the full picture, and to meet as soon as possible, because we need it. I imagine, Mr Casanova, that these words sound to you, because that is how I ended my speech last May, when you tabled a motion concerning collective bargaining. An intervention that took place after reaching an agreement between the Basque Nationalist Party, EH Bildu and the Socialist Party, so that this Parliament could decide on the necessary general rise in wages that would compensate for the loss of purchasing power that wage earners have suffered in recent years, because we shared the starting point. And, Mr. Casanova, the value of the word or the things we have agreed does not lapse to us. And I know the deals aren't to put them in an urn, but they're not to dynamite them either. And it seemed to us that the agreement that we adopted at that time, which made it difficult for us to reach it, was an agreement that was timely, that was appropriate and that was good. And you were telling us in May in your speech that you had reached an agreement without any kind of complex; you say, "We have reached a good agreement, because there was the possibility of reaching a good agreement," and that you at the time thought was not possible. That is why we do not understand very well why this initiative has come again, once again unilaterally. I do not know if he regrets that agreement and now presents this motion. So, I wonder what happened from May, barely seven months ago, to today. Because wages have not been lowered here since May, quite the contrary. Yesterday we knew, you did not say it today (you continue to refer to the indicators you used on the day of the inquiry), but yesterday we knew the data of the survey of labor costs that the INE elaborates and that it left as the press holder – that you like to bring here in cuts – that the wages rise again in Euskadi and that they do it at their highest pace since 2013: they pick up by 1.15% in the third quarter for improvements in the industry and even in the service sector. And in May there have also been more labour agreements, more collective agreements have been closed. Yesterday we could also read in the media – neither have you brought it here today – that this year there are 15.24% more people covered by collective agreements. And since May here, and you have recognized it also in this rostrum, the Government has multiplied the calls for this path to be followed, because we share the need that this Parliament has already shown for a general rise in wages. And so was Mr Azpiazu's question in the context of this initiative. So, what I'm wondering is what happened, what happened from that May plenary until now. And the only thing I can tell is that someone has told him since his watchman that he didn't like that deal, that it's not worth it. And that's what happened? That's what I'm asking you: is that what's happened? That in that watchmanship you're talking about, do you think this government is spreading the misery of work? That the fact that things are being done, that fraud is being fought, that 2,000 temporary jobs are being stabilized through inspection, or by driving, and that they are tenaciously fostering a social dialogue, even though not all agents are in the same line...? That is, that some are absent and speak from the watchtower and not from the table. For them all that is spreading misery. I am sorry, Mr Casanova, because we Socialists believe that the agreements do not expire. The socialists are not going to change their minds. We continue to argue that it is high time that the improvement of these macroeconomic data is accompanied by wage recovery if we want to start talking about the end of the crisis, and that means that workers recover what they lost during that time. I believe, Mr Casanova, that I told you clearly – and you insisted on it today – in the plenary of May, and that the starting point of that agreement, when we were able to reach that agreement, is because we shared that collective bargaining, whether we like it or not, is a matter that involves and falls (not technically, but substantively) to the social partners: the representatives of workers, i.e. the unions, and the representatives of the business side, the employers. And that both parties have autonomy in the exercise of this matter, although it is true that they do not have the same instruments, and that they are therefore responsible for developing collective bargaining and for ensuring that collective bargaining bears fruit. And the only thing the Government can do in this area is to help push it forward for the parties to reach agreements. That's why your insistence constantly is that you sit around a table, because it's the only way, sitting in front of each other, when you can make deals. If you don't come to a table, it's impossible to reach an agreement. You know, and you have said it here, because you have it perfectly internalized, that neither from this Parliament nor from the government can we decree a general rise in wages. We can't do this. He knows that this collective bargaining is needed, he knows that this agreement between the agents is needed. And what we do is we appeal, and that day we appeal, to those agents to negotiate. Everyone. To the employer, so that it does not make it difficult and does not prevent the achievement of new agreements that allow for an increase in the wages of the workers. But also to the unions, and we told them, above all to those unions that by nationalist pruritus refuse to defend these interests of the workers at the corresponding tables, and that they bet on a collective negotiation company by company. Mr Casanova, remember that in May I was transferring two questions to you, which said that to reverse the situation of the purchasing loss of the workers, two things were needed. One was to reverse the labor reform in the Congress of Deputies, that reform that has unbalanced the power situation between employers and trade unions, something that has fallen today from that motion, so we believe we reached a good agreement in May. On the other hand, it is essential to restore the unity of trade union action. Neither has happened, that is true. Rather the opposite. Yesterday we were also able to see in some press headlines how far apart are some unions from others, how easy it would be, in my view, for everyone to put the interests of the workers to whom they have to protect, in the face of the interests of their own trade union organization. And that they would use the tools that the Basque labour relations framework allows us to achieve the objective that in Euskadi every worker can benefit and be protected (because it is not something baladí) by a collective agreement signed in this autonomous community. Mr Casanova, you know that, and we also put it into the May agreement, and today it has again fallen into your motion: the starting point, both employers and trade unions have it in the Basque Country put and signed on 17 January. Remember, that structure agreement that you have to fill with content, that you have to fill with content to protect Basque workers. So that is the agreement that, if they are full of content, if they reach agreements, it will allow for fairer conditions in wages, greater stability and better quality in employment. But I sincerely believe that today EH Bildu has brought this subject here to raise something else, something else that they have told him from a little above. And he said, well, we were gonna profile ourselves. We didn't profile ourselves in May. Others, who today have said that they share this initiative with you but have put forward a three-sheet amendment, others have put themselves on the profile. We didn't profile ourselves in May, we stood up, and we'd like to stand up. The one who's moving from that photo, I don't know if out of discomfort, it's you. And you know it. You have decided to come unilaterally again to this House to bring an agreement that was already adopted, taking away one part and putting another, when we had to weave complicity at that time. And he told us who, how and where. I am not going to refer to other matters of general policy, I am going to focus on this one that you have brought here. Who, who's in charge? You know it: employers and trade unions. How? Through the deal. Where? In collective bargaining. There's no other way to do that. Therefore, we do not profile ourselves, but we stand very much in front of that agreement of the month of May. Others are moving. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians. Mr. Akiancia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u13	Thank you, ma'am. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all. Bon dia. Mr. Casanova doesn't think enough of the answer the chief subalternate of December 1st, so we're talking about the motion he's introduced to us. Before we discuss the Moment, I'd like to take a little examination in the Chief physician's reply, a little examination of that reply which you, Mr. Casanova, have not been satisfied with. His question: "What is the Government's intention in relation to the approved proposal on the need for a general increase in salaries in the Autonomous Community in the light of the declines in recent years?". My summary of the Councillor's reply: it is up to the Government and its members to facilitate places of meeting and permanent dialogue where the holders of labour relations can reach agreements; the Government is favouring, encouraging and insisting on the opening of the channels of conciliation; the Government is convinced that there is room for wages to grow, and is launching this message. I think the answer is enough. Nay, more: It's really good. But the chief physician thought and answered more thoughtfully. First, he carried out an analysis of the situation in recent years. It was based on the reports of the Labour Relations Council, which you also use and manage. He noted wage deflation as a model for adjusting the crisis. Second, he planned the analysis of the current situation: solid growth with job creation and higher productivity growth than the State, with a margin for wage increases in a non-inflationary manner. Three, he made forecasts: forecasts of recovery, forecasts of the need for an increase in the purchasing power of the families for the new cycle. Four, he concluded that this wage increase is needed on the basis of two types of reasons: reasons for equity (it should be noted that the distribution of income has worsened with the crisis, especially to the detriment of the lower sections), and economic reasons (it should be avoided that the Basque economy takes a step back: raising wages, in addition to helping to improve the income of the public coffers, favours consumption and activity). Mr Casanova, it is not an insufficient answer, you put yourself as you put yourself. It is an objectively more than sufficient response to your interpretation, objectively a note answer. I'd give him a 9.5. But that's not the motion discussion. The discussion is this: that the regulating of wages depends essentially on collective negotiation. Indeed, they depend primarily on collective bargaining, which for years has suffered a situation of paralysis that impacts on wage increases. It is true that the crisis and labour reform have transformed the model of labour relations, but collective bargaining remains a matter involving social actors (union organisations and business organisations), who are the holders of labour relations. They are responsible for collective bargaining to materialize, and they cannot escape their responsibility, and so the adviser also recalls in his reply. That is the debate, and you escape that debate, or, rather, you escape intermittently from that debate. He sneaks out of that debate intermittently, and he comes back to us all... You're already seeing it, aren't you? And that's why I'm going to make a chronological mention. At the end of February 2017 you make requests to appear to the main social actors; you note the paralysis of collective bargaining, but – and I quote – "everything is not negative, a pact has recently been reached that can be considered a milestone". It refers to the structure agreement of January 17, and proposes to trade unions and business organisations to submit their analyses and proposals. I recognize that it was a good approach, and it valued that historic pact. March 2017, we are getting ideas from different agents who add up proposals, and on March 21 we have Mr Villarreal's appearance on behalf of ELA. No milestone, no pact, no analysis, no contributions, nothing. You're not answering anything. It might seem that Mr Villarreal was addressing our parliamentary group; formally he was, but you and I know that the message was for your parliamentary group. Listening to what you were listening to, the important thing for me was only your reaction, Mr. Casanova. You could have reacted as in the plenary debate on the establishment of the Inter-Agency Coordination Body on Tourism. Mrs. Corcuera, Mrs. López de Ocariz and Mr. Uribe-Etxebarria will remember it well, I think: on understanding that it did not conform to the justification, that then we saw that it did fit, you, without saying or saying on, went down to this rostrum, went out to this rostrum and shouted "What a courge, what a courge, what a courge!". Did you thus react to Mr. Villarreal by failing to comply with his request? No, no, He thanked him, and little more: message received, and submission. 5 May, interpellation to Councilwoman San José; summary of her argument: the Government is in a mere observer role. Counsel's answer also by note, review it, review it. For you insufficient, what a novelty! He's making a motion. On 25 May, debate on the motion. I was willing to remind you of these issues that I remind you of today, but on the day before you begin the negotiation, we have a serious negotiation, and we have reached a very hard-working agreement. As you explain on page 49 of the Journal of Sessions – and I quote you although you have already been quoted, but to quote you again – "We have had to incorporate wills, we have reached an agreement without any complexes, we have reached a good agreement because there was the possibility of reaching a good agreement. We could have opted for clarity and confrontation, but we have understood that, given the possibility of a good agreement, it is always much better than that confrontation." Good deal against confrontation. And the press headlines tell us the next day: the headline is going to be – and you said so – "A widespread rise in wages is called for." What were the headlines? Race: "The Parliament of Gasteiz approves a general wage increase". The News Group: "The Basque Parliament calls on companies for a general increase in salaries". Vocento Group: "Parliament advocates an increase in wages on a general basis". Even Expansion: "Governance wage rise". He had everything: a good deal, good headlines, a good government reaction apparently, and even had no complex, but what was missing? Three days later, ELA's press release, she will remember it well: "Irrelevant is the agreement on collective bargaining reached in Parliament. PNV, EH Bildu and PSE have lost an opportunity." And start again for you. New session: interpellation, insufficient response, motion for interpellation..., until today. I didn't have a DIN A-3 of those big ones, we don't have; if not, I was going to make a graph so they could catch me like this with a zoom: good deal-ear shoot-summation-confrontation; good deal-ear shoot-summation-confrontation; agreement-ear shoot... Please, Mr. Casanova, do us all a favor. Get off that protected roller coaster. Get down, get down. We have not tabled an amendment to your motion and we are going to vote against, as you have already intended, your entire text, the whole text that was before us. And why? Because it is a distortion of a good agreement in force, and because it is a devaluation of the negotiating will of this House. With this position we consider the agreement of 25 May to be more alive than ever. I reiterate that text which rejects and calls for the repeal of the labour reform, which pursues stable and high-quality employment, which drives collective bargaining since the pact of 17 January and since the priority of the Basque area of negotiation, and which in today's specific subject considers it necessary to undertake a general increase in wages in the framework of collective bargaining. I repeat that text, which bears its signature and which received the support of 76% of this House. I'll take it back. I repeat that text through which we succeeded, and I quote, "to reach a good agreement and send a positive message to society". Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u14	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Passing on the answers, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u15	Mr. Aiartza, you're going to do two curious things here. Firstly, it will vote against a literal paragraph pronounced by the Lehendakari in this House, it will vote against a proposal by the Lehendakari of its own political party. That's the first curious thing. The second is that, instead of performing a parliamentary task today, you have limited yourself to being a sort of student who does a job..., I am not going to say doctoral thesis, a work on the parliamentary practice of parliamentarian Iker Casanova, and you have been looking, well, at all the appearances... At least acknowledge that there is constant and sustained work on this issue by my group and by myself, and that this is why this debate that bothers you is here, and, as Mr Damborenea said, it will continue to be. Because since May, nothing particular has happened to me. The problem is not what happened to me. The problem is what has not happened in this society. And what has not happened in this society is that the parliamentary agreement has been fulfilled. And, I repeat, the agreements are not to put them within a framework, but to cause things to happen. And the things that that agreement wanted to cause to happen haven't happened. What has been fulfilled by the agreement of 7 May? Has labour reform been repealed? Has collective bargaining been restored? Has there been a widespread rise in wages? What has happened to be so satisfied with an agreement that has not been fulfilled? I would not change a coma of that agreement, which does not mean that we cannot and should go beyond it, precisely to work for the materialization of that agreement. Because what we are here for today is for that agreement to be fulfilled. That agreement seems to you that there it is, that it has to remain for history, for posterity, and its content seems to bring you to the pair. We are here because since May the trends have been the same, and the situation has not reversed. Mrs Castelo does not seem to have listened to me, because she says that I have not quoted this week's salary increase. I have not only quoted it: I have quoted it and commented on it, in the sense that it does not mean a real wage rise, but that it means a new finding of the progressive loss of purchasing power of wages, because, despite nominally rising, wages – even this year – are rising below inflation. Therefore, purchasing power is lost. So, listen to me a little bit better. The May agreement was a starting point that we defend, it is an agreement that is correct, but it is an agreement that is not being implemented. And it's time to say things and call things by their name: there's only one agent, a social agent, who doesn't want to commit a widespread rise in wages. And don't be afraid that that rise has to be given at the negotiating tables, because at those negotiating tables there is a part that wants to raise wages in terms that are economically possible (not in the companies that are going to close, let's not mix things up)... It is possible to raise wages in most companies, because there are benefits to it, and there is only one part, a social worker who does not want them to go up. Tell me which union doesn't want wages to go up. Tell me which union doesn't sign the May agreement. Tell me what union. She's the boss. And, therefore, since the May agreement was insufficient to move the bosses of their positions, we believe that it was necessary to give continuity. And now it is no longer to put ourselves – if I may be humorous – as Gila, next to the employer, and to say "It seems to me that there is someone here who does not want to raise wages...", which is what we did in May. Because that agreement clearly did not mention Confebask, but the only agent who was against it, and who did not take a second to say that it was against the content of the agreement (not the format, as others criticized, but the content, the core of the agreement, which was the wage rise), was the employer. And now we believe that it is no longer necessary to enter indirects, but rather to say it in a more direct and clear way to the employer, who does not want to raise wages. And this government cannot raise wages by decree, we all agree. Let's not repeat the obviouss. The framework is collective bargaining. But who has blocked collective bargaining, with the instruments that have given it the labour reform of the People's Party precisely to do so, is the employer. And she's the one who has to feel emplaced. And you don't dare call things by their name, you don't dare to say that the employer is the only social agent who doesn't want to raise wages, and you generically refer to them being arranged at the table, as if they were two parties that don't reach an agreement. It's not a union strategy problem. Neither the agreements signed in companies nor the agreements signed in the sectoral sphere are collecting increases in the purchasing power of workers, because the agreements that are being signed today are below inflation. Therefore, it is not a problem that there are unions that do not want to sign agreements; the problem is that the employer does not want to sign fair agreements that adequately divide wealth. And you don't dare call things by their name, and you make up films as if Mr. Villarreal had to come here, with whom I have contact, and it also seems very good to me (as with the rest of the unions, and I claim it, and I also have contact with all the unions), as if I had to come to a parliamentary appearance so that I would know what she thinks. Please be a little more serious! I know you have a piece of paper here: you have the paper to tell most people in this country, that you see how their wages are losing purchasing power, that this government does not dare to do anything to reverse this situation. But please don't make up strange movies...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u16	Please finish, Mr. Casanova.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u17	Please have a little more appreciation of your own parliamentary task. As Mr. Damborenea said, who doesn't want his salary up! Indeed, who doesn't want his salary to go up? But we're not talking about our salary being raised. We're talking about who doesn't want the salaries to go up to the others. And that's the boss. And if you don't dare say it, don't dare, but don't invent movies.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u18	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u19	Look, this is not a matter of us wanting wages to go up because yes, because we like it or because everybody likes to charge more or have more money. And I have said this in my previous approach: it is a question that the purchasing power of women workers has decreased in recent years, and that labour incomes have decreased in relation to capital incomes, and that labour incomes have decreased in relation to GDP, in relation to the wealth of the country. And labor incomes have decreased by what increases the cost of living. That difference has been increasing. Therefore, we are not talking, this is not a need to raise wages so that people have more money because they do. It is a question of sharing wealth, it is also a question of social justice, that the wealth that is created in the country at the moment is being left in the hands of a few, which is the great employer and it is the one that defends the model that allows that. Therefore, our positions are not naive positions, nor positions to gift people's ears saying that we want wages to rise (that in such an affirmation, of course, we all agree). No, no, What we are saying is that concrete measures have been put in place in recent years to increase these differences and inequality. And to us, like the previous time, it seems important to note that this whole framework has been given because someone wants to stay, because someone wants to have a new situation in working conditions, a new situation in labour relations. And that someone logically is the beneficiary of that new situation. And that someone's the boss. And, therefore, we did not profile ourselves that time, Mrs Castelo, we said very clearly, and I was very clear in my presentation: we felt that the agreement reached was absolutely insufficient, absolutely insufficient. And that's why we abstained, because it seemed to us insufficient in several respects, and one of them was precisely that in the text he excluded the employer from that responsibility. Yes, Mrs Castelo, of course in our opinion you were excluded, and all you had to do was see the difference in the final result with the original initiatives coming from the left. And because that initiative also excluded criticism of the 2010 labour reform. And we cannot accept that, because the two labour reforms are part of structural measures that have been implemented in recent years precisely so that the result is this, that of a greater weakness of the working party and a much more unbalanced labour market than the previous one, and a greater position of strength of the employer and, therefore, a greater situation of inequality. And we, in our amendment today, maintain the same content as on that occasion, extending it with concrete measures. Of course, extending it with concrete measures, because we are not going to reproduce exactly the same thing as last time, and so we go further, and I have explained some of them. You are constantly referring, and did so again, to the fact that this is a matter of collective bargaining exclusively, which is a matter that you have to resolve trade unions and employers there, at the collective bargaining tables. But it is precisely at the heart of the problem that this collective negotiation is currently flawed. It is addicted to the legislative elements that make such negotiation impossible. And it is also the job of politicians and parliamentary groups to position us, not to throw balls out and say that the bosses are understood with the workers. No, because if the relationship in a normal situation is already a situation of inequality, of power, of strength between employers and workers, at the moment there is no possibility of solving this problem of purchasing power and of the loss of working conditions of workers with the current situation of collective bargaining. And, therefore, it seems to us very important to keep these debates also in Parliaments, and we will never refuse to do so. And all the measures we have proposed in our amendment I am sure they are shared by many trade unions. Therefore – I am saying this once again, because I have had to tell you many times in this House – we do not intend to replace trade unions, but we will certainly never give up having our opinion in a parliament on issues affecting the world of work. And that amendment is our opinion on this issue. Because, besides, what came out of the deal the other time, and Mr. Aiartza has pulled out the press headlines... Indeed, those holders said "high wages", and that is why that initiative also seemed to us insufficient, because it gave rise to a misleading holder. Most people, when I read those headlines...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u20	Please finish, Mr. Hernandez...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u21	I'm done, Madam President. Most people, when they read those headlines, think they're going to raise wages already, and we've seen that that's not true, because you have to do a lot of things to raise wages. It is not enough to place the employer, who is not going to raise wages at his own risk. All the wage increases, all the purchasing power recoveries that have taken place throughout history, have been ripped off by the workers.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u22	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Deputy of the Popula team, Lord Damborene, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u23	Thank you very much, Madam President. Well, in the end, it turns out that this wasn't about raising salaries, it was about criticizing Confebask. Okay, okay. Well, that's good, because since May things have happened. In other words, wages in the Basque Country in the last quarter have risen by 1.15%; the rise of 7% of the minimum wage was agreed, and then it was agreed that in 2000 it would reach 1,000 euros. I mean, things have happened, from May to here. But, well, as I see that in the end it was not exactly the rise of wages or the disposable income of the workers, so little more we have to say. Have the income from work declined in the last few...? Of course, for unemployment! Yes, man, for the stop! Now, do you really care about the income of the workers, the disposable income? I propose something that we can do and we have skills here in the Basque Country: we lower the IRPF again, which we raise in 2013 for the workers, and then they will already have more money available. Because, as you know, some people get paid up and it turns out they take less money, because if you move past the stage, they shake you. Well, as I propose, if you really care so much about the disposable income of the Basque workers (we too), and we are willing to reach an agreement, we can do it at the general meetings, and we lower the IRPF of all the workers in the Basque Country. And, given the interest shown by both speakers in this matter, let us hear it as soon as possible, the sooner it comes into force, the better for all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u24	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u25	Mr. Damborenea doesn't need any more time because they solve everything, everything, with the tax reduction. It's one thing... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Low taxes. Are we talking about services? Low taxes. Anyway, everyone, as I say, with their book, right? That we have a piece of paper. Papelón..., a paper that has been up to you since we had the agreement in May, that it seemed to me to be a courageous position on your part when it came to reaching an agreement, and it seemed to me to be a very good agreement on the part of Parliament, very well-received, very firm, very clear, and that it was passed on to employers, trade unions and citizens in general, because it is necessary that the messages we send be clear and firm. So, what really hurts me is that that message, which was so clear and that it was so firm, and that it wasn't so easy to get, today we want to dynamite it and we're going to throw it over the edge. I think I'll stay on the positive side. I'm not going to favor you, I'm sorry, but since I get classes at home (they call me "Don't Compare"), so I'm not going to confront you. I'm not gonna give him a chance to confront. You spoke to me today about whether something had been done with labour reform. No, nothing's been done. And to that we can place ourselves, which is not to throw balls out, and to talk about it not only in this House, which is very interesting, but to me it seems much more interesting to talk about labor reform in the Congress of Deputies. Then, it will be there where our colleagues, of both formations (those of all, because we are all represented there), let us talk about how we give back to the workers through the unions sufficient instruments for collective bargaining to be rebalanced. Because that's really one of the problems, isn't it? But you also know, Mr Casanova, and you did not want to tell us here, that at state level there is a workplace for the month of January between employers and trade unions, with a matter on the agenda of that meeting, and it is the general rise in wages. I mean, we know that's on the agenda. It is a pity that the same meeting that will take place in January in the State cannot be fixed here, in the Basque Country, too, because, of course, an agreement cannot be reached if we do not come to a table at which that agreement can be reached. So we also do not understand the closure of not wanting to go to the calls or not to call the Social Dialogue Bureau, because it is an instrument that we make available to social agents, both employers and trade unions, from our own framework of relations, so that they can reach an agreement. An agreement that does not benefit trade unions, but those who represent, which is the workers. Because there is one thing that is clear: when a wage does not rise above the CPI it loses purchasing power, but when nothing rises, when it freezes, it still loses more. And that's kind of the tonic we've had in the last two or three years. And I'm going to give you an example, I'm going to give you an example of what the position of some of the social partners also means. We have a employer at this time anchored and hard, and she is using tools she has – and you know we share it – but we also have social agents who are sometimes unable to see who their agreements have to reach. Bizkaia Cleaning Sectoral Convention, has been unnegotiated since 2014. It fell apart. No salary increase either in 2014, in 2015, or in 2016. They've been negotiating for nine months. First offer from the employer: no increase, we eliminate the excess of antiquity, and we do not adjust a theme of schedules. Of course, it is rejected by all the trade union centres that sit in front of it. They continue, logically (agreements already know that they are a take-and-take), and the new proposal that has been made this week has been a pay increase of 1.6. Well, man, we're going to say that it's not a big increase, but above the average of the increases that some social actors are clinging to to justify their attitude from the business-to-business agreement, or that the confederal unions talk about they get at sectoral level. I mean, he's in that environment. Position of the majority union, which is not a confederal union, but are of those who are in the watchtower: that offer is not enough. Well, it won't be enough, but it's still necessary! Three years of wage freeze. Three years of wage freeze! We're playing with the money of many families. I mean, you have to have a little bit there... I therefore believe, and because I am consistent, that what the Socialist Party is going to do today is to say that we reject labour reform, that we call for the repeal of the rules contained in it which have devalued and precarioused the conditions of employment, to establish a model of labour relations that guarantees the balance between the social partners, and that will help to recover rights for workers and create stable and quality employment. That the Basque Parliament (and the Socialists) consider that, in the current situation, it is necessary to undertake, in the framework of collective bargaining, in spite of those who weigh it, an increase in wages on a general basis, with the aim, on the one hand, of compensating for the loss of purchasing power that wage earners have suffered in recent years, and, on the other, of promoting a fairer distribution of wealth. And the Basque Parliament and the Basque Socialists consider that the interprofessional agreement on the structure of collective bargaining, of 17 January 2017, is the primary starting point for the unlocking of collective bargaining, and therefore urges that it be developed and endowed with content to reactivate the signing of agreements and, from the priority of the Basque area of negotiation, to move towards a framework of fairer labour relations in terms of...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u26	Finishing up...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u27	... of wages, stability and quality in employment. [[Termino, señora presidenta.]] This is the agreement of May, with the votes of EH Bildu, the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Party. It is in this agreement that the Socialist Party is going to hold its vote today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians. Mr. Akiancia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u29	Thanks again. Mr. Hernandez, just a couple of notes. You already considered – and that is why you abstained –..., you already considered timorate, as Councillor Azpiazu says, the agreement of 25 May. Its text, its amendment, involved, in two out of five points, towards the Basque Government, which I believe is already totally out of focus. Well, the amendment to this motion is already a note, this is a note, this is a note: seven out of eight (and the eighth is only a small manifesto), seven out of eight, for the Basque Government. The concept of labour relations holders has been charged; you have been charged with a pen with this amendment to trade unions, their functions, their competences, their contributions, their essence. I'd like to know Mr. Deaf's opinion on this! I'll ask her. Mr. Casanova, eskerrik asko, eskerrik asko for punctuating me high in this research work about you. You are, however, an exciting case of study. Paper, yours. Papelon yours! He told me I don't dare Confebask. Ask your partner Mrs. Otamendi the other day at the appearance on occupational sinestrality. Just ask her. He has qualified this parliamentary group as the employer's squire. Look, sir, this parliamentary group, like the lehendakari and the government, are alone at the service of Basque society, compromising their word on it. And so we committed ourselves to that agreement of May 25th. You, at whose service are you? I have committed my word and my signature to that agreement. And what is the value of your word? Mine, there it is. What is the value of your word? From May 25 to the eardrop of May 30, from May 25 to today, four days, four months...? How does your word expire? We understand the fulfillment of our word, of the word given, as follows. First, being constant, as in that agreement; constant in our commitments, in defending the agreements we sign. Are you constant? Are you constant? I'm going back to the evidence. Being consistent. Are you two consistent? They give us lessons, or they intend to give them, about wage increases, and at the same time they present us with an amendment, the 1,253... How do you explain this amendment to me? Ah! Ah! That you do not explain the amendments, do not defend them! No, no! I explain it to you: a reduction, an impact, a reduction of 11,228,000, which means..., this is a proposal to reduce the salaries of officials and workers of the Department of Safety and Security. Aren't they workers? What a courage! What a courage! Being engaged, not being superficial, not looking for it to look like it is, but looking for it to be. Not looking, like you, for your headlines – which comes out here – the day after, or, I don't know, that sugar, whoever gives it to you. By the way, he's been given more earshots lately than sugar. He's got to look at it. And being responsible, without running away from our obligations or intermittently, Mr Casanova. Being responsible, claiming the deal. Constant, consistent, committed and committed, responsible, in the service of the word given to our citizens, as our Government. And yes, I would like to end with an approach which the other day put on or drew out in this rostrum, a proposal from Mrs Gorospe. Honestly, I think it's something basic, as well as tremendously positive for improving our work here. "Do you know what we should approve?" Mrs Gorospe said: 'For something like this, 'Parliament urges Parliament, and especially its parliamentary groups, to respect the agreements adopted and are not constantly raising these same debates'. I'm adding up, Mrs. Gorospe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u30	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Now that the discussion is over, we will vote for the original text of Mr. Casanova Alonsso's motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 27; contrarys, 45; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u31	So it's not accepted. After that, we're going to vote for the full line of Podemos together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 72; 10, contrary, 45; white, 0; abstaining, 17th.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u32	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. Second point on the subject list: "A proposition like the Parlamentary People of Euscal, the collective of autonomouss on the arrival of DBE. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs Garridio, it's yours to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u33	Gracias, señora presidenta. Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, congressmen. Good morning, chief. Today we are bringing to this Parliament again a debate on GIR, with the aim of setting up a fair system. And to set up a fair system of social protection in the collection of social aid is to ensure, without doubt, that the aid reaches those who really need it. And we understand that there is a collective, the collective of self-employed, which has special difficulties in accessing the right to income guarantee income and supplementary housing benefit. From the People's Group, therefore, we believe that the criterion of justice should be the one which should focus the situations of necessity for which social aid is intended, on the coverage of these situations. Initiating this debate, we want to reiterate two fundamental ideas, which the People's Party is talking about when we talk about a fair system of social aid. On the one hand, we believe that it is necessary for the Basque Government already once and for all to arbitrate the necessary mechanisms to avoid abusive, irregular and fraudulent situations in the social protection system. Last week we heard an episode about the dismantling of a fraudulent network to receive social aid through the falsification of numerous documents, and in this regard a large number of people who falsified documents for the collection of social aid were also arrested. In particular, 186 persons were arrested, and in addition, persons receiving income guarantee income, who did not have their residence in the Basque Country fixed; they had their residence fixed in countries such as the Netherlands, Italy, Greece, the Arab Emirates and Pakistan. I therefore believe that, by mentioning this particular episode, the question is obvious and repetitive in relation to the question we have asked about controls in the protection system: what controls or follow-up is being done on people who receive income guarantee income from Lanbide, when there are people who receive income guarantee income who do not live in the Basque Country and are receiving this help living and living in other countries, as we have known in this case (in Pakistan, the Arab Emirates, Greece, Italy and so on)? What control is also being exercised by the Lanbide of people who perceive GIR, when we have also heard of news from people who receive this help who were even fighting in other countries, and also that they received GIR even after they died? We therefore send the message again from the People's Party and ask the Basque Government to take the necessary reform without delay to ensure that social aid reaches those who really need it, and that these abusive, fraud and irregular situations are avoided. Hence we insist that the government, to complete these abuses, must set up the necessary resources in order not to give cases of this kind, and lead a fair system. But at the same time we consider – and that is what motivates the initiative we are presenting today – that the system, if it has to be fair, must also ensure the accessibility of those groups that have special difficulties in accessing the GIR, which is justice within the system. When this group presented the proposal for a law to amend the current legislation, the Law for the Guarantee of Income and for Social Inclusion, it amended a specific article of the current law, in relation to the fact that there are no low-value assets together with the usual housing, because we understand that it was leaving out collectives who had to be within the system. Today, as I said, we propose that access to GIR be made easier for those other collectives that we have also known that have special difficulties in accessing a right they have, such as self-employed ones. The other day in this Parliament we also approve an initiative in relation to groups that have special difficulties, such as pensioners who supplement their pensions with income-guarantee income, and in the framework of that campaign that will be carried out by the government once the amendment is processed – that we also hope, counsel, that it will be sooner than later and that you will fulfil the mandate of this House that such amendment (the bill) can be forwarded in the first quarter of 2018 – we say from the People's Group that we also need to put a special emphasis on carrying out a specific campaign in relation to the collective of self-employed people, with the aim of them knowing and having the information necessary to access the GIR. Therefore, we bring this initiative today, and we bring it also following a resolution that we were aware of, by Ararteko, on the treatment of the current regulation of the GIR in relation to this collective, a situation that had also been raised by the collective of self-employed people themselves. So in this case, we encourage and present the autonomous initiative after a solution from the intermediary. On the other day, we agreed to make a communication campaign about the rights of low pensions, and we have to explain today that we've made the same deal with our collective autonomists. We therefore reiterate the message that the Basque Government must ensure accessibility to GIR for those groups with special difficulties, such as the autonomous ones. The Ararteko resolution makes special reference to the problems experienced by self-employed people in the perception of GIR when there is a decrease in their income, or even when they are forced to cease their activity by a decrease in the income of the activity they are developing. At the time of the negative valuation of the profit and loss account, the pre-deduction results of the self-employed are valued, and if positive (i.e., income is higher than expenditure, even if small) the decrease is considered voluntary and, therefore, the applicant is denied the right to the benefit and it is impossible to apply for it – which we do consider to be something that needs to be remedied – until a year has elapsed. Where a self-employed person has been receiving supplementary IGR for more than one year, which is low because of the loss of activity, of activity as self-employed person, and for more than one year with loss of activity, it is considered that he is not allocating the benefit for the purpose for which it was granted, the corresponding communication by Lanbide is made, and if in six months it is not believed that the activity has begun to have benefits, the benefit is suspended, because it is considered that such IGR funding is not being allocated for the basic needs. Article 28.1.2 of the Law on Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion, on the termination of the GIR, applies by analogy to self-employed persons who cease their activity when the working conditions which could lead to an increase in the level of income are rejected on an unjustified occasion, which we consider not to be appropriate, as confirmed by the Ararteko in the resolution to which I have just referred. Therefore, we believe that with this initiative we emphasize a collective that has difficulty in collecting GIR when it is entitled to it, as is the collective of self-employed, and therefore it is necessary to facilitate access to GIR for this collective. We believe that in this sense we must make an RGI accessible to those who need it, and clearly shield it for those who comment on abuses. That is certainly legitimizing and giving credibility to the social protection system. And in this regard, apart from the fact that the Government is already bringing forward without delay and, above all, implementing the mandates relating to these reform issues, from the amendment of the existing legislation relating to GIR, that effective measures are also being put in place to ensure that Lanbide actually works, that social aid is properly managed, and that the shortcomings currently identified in Lanbide, both in terms of management and in terms of ensuring the employability of persons receiving GIR, are addressed. We therefore requested in our original initiative a specific campaign in relation to the group of self-employed people, and I must say that we have reached a broad agreement, unanimously, in this House on the implementation of this campaign. More specifically, the campaign will be launched by the Basque Government after the pending amendments to the Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act, Act of 23 December 2008, and specific action will be taken in the context of this campaign to make the information necessary to ensure that the collective of self-employed persons really has no difficulty in realizing their right to income guarantee income. And, on the other hand, that the conditions applicable to this collective in order to process the criteria of the RGI, all in an accessible format, should also be specified on the Lanbide website, in a clear language. We understand from the People's Group that it is a positive agreement, in line with the agreements reached in this House recently in relation to other collectives, as I have previously referred to pensioners who supplement their low pensions, and in this regard we hope that this agreement will be able to see the light soon, within the framework of the amendments that are provided for in the law. I think it's a good deal. In this case, the protection system will be more fair with an agreement that will be approved today, and we guarantee that our support will reach those who really need it. In this respect, I think it is a positive arrangement, as in the plenoia before, as when we came to other agreements. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u34	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. It's the turn of the teams that's running the corrections. Together, Poedemus. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u35	ma'am: Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, good morning to all! Together, according to the Podemos team, this initiative allows us to have a new discussion about a subjective right. We shall, indeed, proceed to another discussion of incomes, and of the necessity of information. Because I have not come to talk about anything else, but about the initiative we have on the table. In Euskadi there are data, for example January 2017, that speak of more than 170,000 people working as self-employed, and 170,000 people are many people. In Euskadi, too, there are many people, whether recipients of social benefits or not, who are lost in terms of knowledge of their rights and the means and possibilities to exercise them. For example, we talked here two weeks ago about pensioners. We have also talked at different times and spaces about the right to information for all, especially when it comes to fundamental social rights for subsistence. We could bring in many other initiatives such as this or last week's, because this affects pensioners, affects people who work as self-employed, and, in general, affects all people who receive GIR, or any citizen who at some point is likely to be able to exercise the right to income guarantee. Therefore, we need to be concerned that when it comes to approaching information campaigns we should take them all into account. We must be able, at this moment of opportunity, to build a better income guarantee system, an open, informed and reporting income guarantee system, and, ultimately, to allow those who use it to travel through it with dignity, without having to leave their lives in a maze of administrative or bureaucratic obstacles. Having said that, and resuming the reason for the initiative, and since the autonomous persons are, of course, no less than any other collective, it must be recognized that they have a specific and particularly complex situation, which must be answered at least with specific information, such as with pensioners or how it can happen with homeless people, with women... I was saying it two weeks ago and I'm repeating it again today. Today we come to an agreement that will give substance to the GNP adopted in May, in which it was agreed to carry out an information campaign by taking an approach that will, of course, allow us to adapt the campaigns and communications that are made to the population, to the interests and needs. It is important to note that although there is no single profile of persons receiving social benefits, there are groups that are clearly identified within the persons receiving social benefits. In particular, people who work as self-employed have particularly complex characteristics. I'm going to point out some of them. There's little information. Lanbide's website does not clearly mention that anyone who has a small business, works in time to give training, to provide some specific service, or who is starting a business and does not go well with it, can count on this support. And since it's not specified, there may be people who don't know they have a right. The little information there is confusing. After an arduous search, for example, we have found that they are only named in Lanbide's criteria document, at least that we have been able to see. The information contained in both the general law and articles 16 and 24 of Decree 147/2010, as well as the information contained in chapter 5 of the criteria document, is complex to address. The way in which certain practices are adopted in Lanbide's day-to-day life is also complex, because, as it is complex to deal with regulations, this means that people who are going to process income guarantee income do not know what they are or are not entitled to. But it also means that those who are willing to do the work for others do not always have homogeneous criteria that help to guarantee something as important as a subjective right. But I'm going into more detail, because, of course, I want to focus on the subject, I haven't come here to talk about anything else. But also because we have been complaining for a long time that RGI needs to be more flexible in order to reach more people. In this sense, in particular with the autonomous people, there are obstacles that I believe we must be aware of. For example, they are required to submit a tax return, an affidavit of monthly income to credit these income. It is established that, in the case of business losses, they will be taken into account only if they last for more than eighteen months, and only if they exceed 150 % of the SMI, which is at least unfair, if we compare it with other people. But above all, what results is confusing, because in order to be able to calculate whether or not it corresponds to you the RGI in the case of being a citizen who works on behalf of others is complicated, but already on my own I do not tell you. After requesting the GIR, in addition, the autonomous people continue to encounter difficulties, which have, of course, to do with issues that have already been dealt with so far in this House, such as inefficiency in establishing the highs and the lows in Social Security, income declarations, which systematically generate undue payments. And that is something that, of course, is on the table in the debate and is in the process of improvement. All this is complicated, as it is also complicated to establish, for example, a maximum floor of crisis time: two years. More than two years can't be. Good. We agree among all groups that we have representation in this House that autonomous people have a specific situation, specific conditions, and need specific information. That's it, Mrs. Garrido. From there we have a whole process ahead, which is the reform of Lanbide, where we will have to deal with a lot of things, and the reform of the regulations, where we have to deal with a lot of things. It seems to me at least unpleasant that you come here, with an agreement on the table, which is what we have agreed, to talk about other issues that would certainly not lead us to have an agreement in any case. We believe it is important that we continue to work to give substance to the commitment made in May, just as we believe it is important to develop as many information campaigns as possible to enable citizens to exercise greater and better rights. Because a solidarity society like ours must guarantee the protection and well-being of all citizens, taking into account, of course, always those who can generate greater vulnerability, either because of their conditions, or because of the lack of information. From here, step forward. Steps back, not half. No way. Don't forget, all of us (also from the People's Party) have an obligation to protect and prestige a right that we have built among all. To this end, there is no doubt that there are information campaigns. For that to happen, there is no doubt. To do this, and, of course, Mrs Garrido, to be responsible for the need for consensus, the speeches we make, and to put forward all things the protection of people, which is what we are talking about today. Not at all. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Unite the EH team as representative. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u37	Yes, ma'am, Congressman, the chief physician, good day. Well, I knew that today, if I made a speech, it would probably be a verse, because today, in very few similar terms, we have a discussion about this legislature. Unless the autonomists and their incomes come to minimum, it was time to talk about the right to hire incomes, and it's a question of the right they have to take for the job incentives. What I don't know is very clear, Mrs Garrido, what you've come down to this stage to-day to take advantage of RGIa passing through Pakistan last time, and bring your usual speech here. We wanted to get to this discussion honestly, the same way as the agreement. And in this, too, I shall take the course of my course. But before anything else, I would like to make two quotations: It's about the preparations today-it's not about social help. It is a debate about rights, about social benefits, and not about social aid, and of course many of the things that you have said – although I agree with some, and that is why we have a broad agreement – have little to do with social justice in which, in your opinion, this income-guarantee system should be rotated. This seems to me, as I have said before, to be a discussion here proposed in similar terms, because what we have here is, in fact, a few persons who may have great difficulties, great difficulties, and a great degree of courage, and, on the other hand, have the means to improve their condition, but by some other difficulties of knowledge and knowledge, trouble is given at the moment of the execution of this right. And this is not just a problem with pensioners who have low pensions, it's not just a problem with autonomous workers. For these past few months we've heard of many collectives and many people, people who are incapable of intermixing, women and others who suffer sexual violence... and that it is with the like difficulties that they find themselves in this way of exercising their rights. In this case, it may be said that this binomism around autonomous and RGI is not very well known. It's true that when we talk about the RGI, we rarely think of an autonomic worker, but this is another reality of income. And the data is also present: they are workers working at 20 percent of the benefits, and some of them are autonomous (perhaps those autonomous ones you like), and others have other pills, but they're all part of a reality. And it may be said that the main problems of the autonomous workers having a right to make up their income for extra rents can be collected in two large groups. Here, too, they were mentioned (Mrs. Garrido explained them well, and we agree with them, and Mrs. Guanche explained them very well: some are of the criteria which are used for the settlement of incomes, and others of the want of knowledge which the autonomists have in their revenues to ensure it. It's predicting the law. You, too, have shown very well that those workers who don't come to a few minimum of incomes have the right to receive the incentives of income, and those who work on their own, and those who work for other people. Hence the law has another decree, which is a little organized, in what manner the received in this law will be executed, and we have spoken of many of them, and we have these criteria, which, in some measure, agree or mark the direction of this whole process of the RGI. But practice has shown that things are not clearly and clearly enough to be found in the everyday that this collective autonomists are very complex, that there are many instances about these persons, that their activity is rather imperfect and that it is difficult to establish a common criterion. It's difficult with other workers, and it's even harder in these. And it's not just something that happens with RGI, but with other systems it's something that passes through autonomous. And that's where a lot of cases happen. And in this sense the chief physician also explained to us, when we had a dispute about criteria, that sometimes he has to make decisions in proportion as circumstances and circumstances are given. But what often happens is, that there is no want of non-violence, no homogeneous Clergy, so as to leave it in the hands of those who handle this RGI, and that these resolutions have often been limited, as has often happened in many others; and that this has left so many and so many self-existent workers in our Erronous community. And on this side, the organizations of autonomous workers have made many proclamations. The latter, a few months ago, has been accused of systematicly denying certain professional offices to the autonomous RGIa. The intermediary has also shown its position around this, and has said that those who are used must, in some measure, make a new plan. And so have I, like Mrs. Guanche, made the attempt and tried to see it: I read the law, read the decree, read the criteria, went to the website, called the calling profession... And believe me, it's hard to find out how these rights are to be executed by an autonomic worker. And it is connected with this, too, with the want of knowledge. And the associations around autonomous workers also indicate: so many autonomies do not know that they have this right to receive the RGI. The interrogator also demanded at his own time a specific campaign about this... And, well, I think today's agreement also puts its little specimen on that road, and we must try it too, because there's no explanation about all this information on the website, is there? If we combine these two issues, we have the problem with all these people. And as I said at the beginning of the discussion, this is not just a problem for autonomous workers. Women who suffer from extreme violence, people who are impotent, pensioners, strangers (who are of what country they are), people in the streets, people who are so many and so many people... they have two problems: and, on the other hand, the difficulties about knowledge are limited by these. And so often have we spoken of it: We do not yet have a culture about protection, which works against it, and what it does is not possible to reach, as it were, the goal of the RGI, the attainments of this system as its object. And in this sense we think we can't look the other way, we can't stop it. What we have to do is this: seeing that certain persons are out of the system for such problems, we must take the most immediate measures to bring them into the system. We shall be able to discuss these discussions about criteria, or the reform that is probably going on, and we shall have occasion, in some measure, to conduct these collectives and other collectiveities, and at least to determine them in a proper manner and proper manner. But we have a strong tools in our hands, a potent instrument of union, a strong tool for cohesion, and it is a pity, and it would be imprudence to look on the other side and not to despair of it. And I think we'll make a special experiment on it. In this sense, it seems to me (even if a little had been a cheat) that the agreement today is positive, that it puts a grain, as I said in the previous discussion. And that every person should add a grain above all, that every person, the person, the señora Garrido, might be able to enter the system. Every person, every person, and every one repeats: everything. Not only those who seem to you, or your opinion, these preparations (or those help you call yourselves) I understand from your point of view that they deserve to be called help. All of them! This, because it is a social commitment, a moral commitment, a commitment to our country, and so, giving an answer to the greatest number of answers, must be answered. From the point of view of justice, but, of course, I'd say that the view of the social justice of the Popula Party and that the Basque People are on the tops, are very different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u39	Thank you very much, President. Today we are discussing the proposal for a law concerning the carrying out of a specific information campaign on the possibility of applying for income guarantee income by the collective of self-employed persons. This debate is not new, within this session we have discussed the need to carry out information campaigns regarding income-guarantee income earners in different approaches. Because we Socialists are convinced that our responsibility is not just to guarantee more rights, but to turn this into reality, and for that I believe it is necessary to reach out to those who do not know and have those rights. Thus, to cite some recent example, the Department of Housing has communicated to more than 3,000 families who meet the requirements that a roof under which to live can claim from the Government. That is why, after hearing Mrs Garrido's speech and despite the unanimous agreement that we have reached today, it leads us to think that what seems to move the proposal that we are debating here today is not its content, it is not the interest of the group to which she refers, but the interest of the proposing group to reproduce a restrictive speech of rights in which it has committed itself, when the commitment of the rest of the parliamentary groups in this House is to strengthen the system of protection. Because again – and we already suspected it – it has taken the argument that income guarantee income does not reach collectives that you say "from here", because those who call it "from outside" take it away. Again confront people with needs, rather than go to eliminate those needs, and use as an excuse a fraud that we denounce and that originates in the falsification of documents, whose surveillance and control is not within Lanbide's scope of work. We Socialists take the opportunity to congratulate the National Police for this operation, as well as all the police forces that fight those who use the most peremptory needs of human beings to profit. The Socialists also congratulate those who work every day in Lanbide to ensure that aid reaches those who require it and meets the requirements. And the Socialists congratulate us and are pleased to be part of a society in which people are not guaranteed rights according to where they were born, but because they have made the free decision to be part of Euskadi. The Socialists reiterate our rejection of those who defraud a single euro of the public purses, whether in social benefits or because they do not pay taxes, and reiterate our rejection of the exclusive positions, the discourses that segregate and those that point to any reason of origin, race, sex, religion or national identity. But, as above all we have a deep respect for those who today do not feel in their daily lives that the economy improves, as we respect the efforts and difficulties of so many autonomous people, we will remember where we come from so that we can draw where we are going. At the plenary session on 11 May 2017, a Bildu NLP was already discussed on the need for prestige and awareness of the benefit and subjective right of income guarantee income, and within the amendment to the whole signed by the Basque Nationalist group and that of the Basque Socialists, which was approved with the vote against the People's Party and the abstention of EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos, it was agreed that the Basque Parliament would already urge the Basque Government, once the broad consensus was reached to consolidate and improve the income guarantee system, to carry out a communication campaign to publicize these changes. Also in the plenary of November 30, 2017, this year, no other non-law proposal regarding the launch of a communication campaign on the right of pensioners to complete their lower pensions, we talked about this again. Within it came a compromise amendment signed by Basque Socialists, Basque Nationalists, EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos, which counted on the vote in favour of the People's Party, where the Basque Parliament urged the Basque Government to carry out an information campaign necessary to publicize the rights that pensioners have to complete their lower pensions. Of course, it was considered to address this information campaign within the income guarantee income reform and once it was completed. And all the parliamentary groups agree that it is important to carry out this communication campaign, where citizens will be informed of the most relevant aspects of the reform, as well as of the addition to the income guarantee income of pensions in the terms indicated. And we also agree that it is important to achieve maximum consensus in this reform of the income guarantee system. It is important that people can live with dignity when their working life is interrupted, whether they are self-employed or self-employed, and when their wages, even though they are working, are low, or when they retire. It should be recalled that countries such as France and the United Kingdom have remodelled their income guarantee system in order to make it easily compatible with the receipt of a low wage with a welfare benefit, in order to encourage access to employment for income-receiving persons and to respond to the growing problem of so-called poor workers, thus ensuring a minimum level of welfare for the working population. On this occasion, too, we have reached agreement on the same terms with regard to self-employed income earners. Lanbide also assumes the recognition of income security income under the self-employed scheme under the terms set out in the standard. The diagnostic report itself of the income guarantee system shows that at present there are difficulties with regard to income from work, in determining the cases in which the interruption of activity is self-employed and self-employed and gives rise to an income guarantee income, without it being considered that there has been a voluntary abandonment of labour economic activity. We have to wait to know how this issue is concrete in the reform, and then to get to that campaign, once it is completed. It also highlights the importance of certain professional areas in self-employment, which in early stages or in times of temporary crisis can produce a limited level of income, and in this situation the employment bonus system can be a factor which can contribute to the maintenance of certain independent or self-employed jobs. That is why we believe that the compromise amendment that we have signed today by all the parliamentary groups in this House is important in order to carry out this information campaign also, once the whole reform is completed, so that these self-employed people are informed of the right to complete their low income by means of income guarantee income. And also urge the Basque Government to specify in a clear language all the conditions applicable to these self-employed workers, and to do so in a way that is accessible to the entire population. It is important for the self-employed to know this possibility and the procedure to be followed, so that they can make use of this right in case of need. And the compromise amendment that we have signed today also complements, with this group, that this information campaign will be carried out, which, once the reform is completed, is very important. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u40	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Argrei, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, congressmen, all good days. We have a proposition as different from the Pionian Party as we are going to discuss, unless we're asking it to be fun to run a piece of information (and we'll talk about it, and not about anything else. Today's initiative is clear and he talks about a publicity campaign.) I think you all know the debate, don't you? Because we have already lost count of the various information campaigns that have been asked of the Basque Government, Thursday after Thursday, to publicise the income guarantee income for specific groups. Today the information campaign is for self-employed workers. Today is not the day to talk or question the government or to talk about Lanbide reforms, or to... , because there will be all the time in the world, as long as an initiative is presented. I'm asking you to get a precise account of information for autonomous workers to know that their low incomes can be completed by rent, if they're based on the terms that it combines the legalities that have been made. To-day we shall use the same argument that we repeat every week: I'd like to introduce an elementary document to change the bill in the parliament and the Department of Society and Society, as you all know, is a commitment to present the bill before the change of law. So why do you insist on applying your advertising campaigns for specific groups every Thursday? If we accept the change of the law in the legislature (and as several groups have asserted that this is their will, I am sure, as the spokesman of other groups have said), then, when the law is changed, the time will be to publish innovations and improvements. That will be the time to start the advertising or information campaigns that are needed, so that the conditions that match are not protected by the lack of information. It is true that the original initiative of the People's Party does not set the deadline for launching the information campaign among the self-employed on the possibility of applying for income guarantee income. To launch the campaign requested at this time, in which we are engaged in a process of regulatory change, seems to us out of place, a genuine irresponsibility, and would also entail mismanagement of public resources. As we have said on the many occasions we have discussed advertising campaigns for specific groups, the Basque Nationalist group does not refuse to allow such campaigns to take place, but we must wait for the amendment of the law to come into force, so that it is more effective, and for responsibility in the management of public resources. On the other hand, we find it important to have a good view of the subject. According to the data of the profession, 1,000 autonomous workers form their low incomes by rent (three75s with incentives, and 625s without incentive). It must also be said that there is a detailed section of autonomous workers in the document (which has been introduced in the legislature) to guarantee revenues to support the transferment of incomes, which answers right to different forms of mathematics. The workers of the profession know about it, and society can, for these criteria have been published (though difficult, and ready to improve them all, even our team and the Euko-Mama). We think the Red Beetle is looking after and taking care of autonomous workers. We have reached a compromise amendment by all the groups in the House, because we agree that in the advertising campaign, once the amendment of the Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act has been approved, there is an express mention for the group of self-employed workers, a group which, in our view, also needs special protection in view of its vulnerability. Secondly, as long as this amendment is approved, we ask Lanbide to publish in plain language and on its website the conditions applicable to self-employed persons to access the GIR and the CVP, following the criteria for processing Lanbide presented in this Parliament and duly published. Finally, we agree that this information is in a format accessible to the entire population, in line with what has been requested on other occasions, and that the Government shares and is taking action in this regard. To conclude, therefore, simply put into value the agreement to be adopted unanimously, concerning an advertising campaign to make known the characteristics that the group of autonomous persons may have in order to be able to access the GIR and the CPV. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Passing in responses, representing the Basque Potula Group. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Well, briefly, because I also believe that the agreement is clear on the implementation of specific actions within the framework of the campaign to facilitate access to GIR for groups with special difficulties, such as the self-employed. But I would like to clarify some of the issues. I think one thing does not take away the other, and when we talk about the system being fair, and that this concept, this appeal to the justice of the system means that the aid reaches the people who really need it, we are talking about it reaching the people with special difficulties... The other day we did it with the pensioners who supplement their pension with income guarantee income; today this group has brought an initiative in relation to the self-employed; this group has also raised specific debates in relation to, for example, what I referred to in my first intervention, there are no low-value assets together with the usual housing at the time of the perception of the GIR... But, at the same time as we say this – I don't understand where the inconvenience is, and I think it's something we all had to agree on – there should be no abusive, irregular and fraud situations. And if there has recently been news that has caused concern, this group brings it up. Undoubtedly, this matter is not exactly the objective of the initiative. That is why we have presented a number of initiatives over the years, and that is why we have also called for the Commissioner to appear in committee, to explain to us all the details regarding the disarticulation of this network, with the controls... It's our duty as an opposition! Or do you agree (in particular I address Mrs Guanche, Mrs Kortajarena) that it is being charged by GIR collectors, I don't care about any nationality and I don't care about anyone, who may be receiving help of these characteristics and not living in our autonomous community, when that person is supposed to have to sign an inclusion agreement, when that person has to have a personalized itinerary for job integration? Or do we not agree that this damages the prestige of the system, damages the legitimacy of the system? I think we're saying the same thing! That's not criminalizing perceptive people. That is to say clearly that if Lanbide does not function in the control of social aid, because these situations occur, it will have to arbitrate the mechanisms necessary for the system to work. And that is prestige and legitimizing the system, and ensuring the sustainability and future of the system. I too, Mrs Sánchez, am glad, and I said this the other day: we congratulate the state security forces and bodies, and in particular the National Police, on the disarticulation of this network, which involved the existence of fraud in relation to social aid. That is why we effectively defend their presence in the Basque Country, which is why we consider them to be useful for Basque citizenship, because they carry out very important and very relevant tasks, such as the disarticulation of this type of network. And we don't ask for his retreat, nor for the retreat from the Basque Country. But I believe that in the face of situations of this caliber, we cannot look elsewhere. And the groups represented in this House, and which we represent the Basque citizens, we cannot look elsewhere. Of course, the right to GIR is a subjective right, Mrs Kortajarena, but not because it is determined by the People's Party or EH Bildu. It is determined by law, and determined by specific access requirements. And what Lanbide needs to do is verify that these access requirements are met in order to provide this benefit and respond to any requests that may be made, but Lanbide also needs to verify that these requirements continue to be met once GIR is perceived. And Lanbide will also have to give those people a chance. Or do we all want those people to be in the system of social protection for life? Well, I don't think so, that's not an objective of the system. And I do not honestly believe that it is an objective that you share, if we speak sincerely. We, Mrs Arregi, have put forward numerous proposals for improving GIR. And it not only improves, but to remedy those deficiencies that the system has, which we consider to be multiple. Today the debate of the autonomous. Indeed, I believe that Mrs Guanche has also made a thorough review of the difficulties, the special difficulties that this group has in accessing the GIR, in relation to the lack of information that exists, in relation to the lack of knowledge, which Mrs Kortajarena has also referred to this issue, to knowledge, to information about access to the GIR, to knowledge that there is a right to the GIR. There is no adequate information, there are no homogeneous criteria, which exist obstacles for the autonomous people... For that is what this initiative was about, to ensure accessibility to a group that has special difficulties. But, of course, the aim of the People's Party is to ensure that the system is fair, and that also involves other actions by the Basque Government, by Lanbide, that we hope that they will be put in place to remedy the shortcomings that the system has in our view and that persist in the system.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u44	Thank you, Mrs Garrido...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u45	Issues that were denied – and I finish, President – but that in the end we have also been given reason. We were put on fire for wanting to implant the fingerprint, and then in the end, for it is a tool that the Government will use precisely to ensure that the system is fair.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u46	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Together, Poedemus. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u47	Eskerrik asko, mahaiburu andrea. Let's split it up. Three very brief things. The first, compañeras (I say compañeras because we are five women), we talk about a right and therefore we talk about benefits, and we also have to be aware of the use of language. When we talk about aid, we take away from the income guarantee its rightful character. This is what the law establishes, so we must use it, at least in our opinion. Mrs Garrido, of course we do not agree with fraud, but I find it somewhat hypocritical that a party accused of corruption is so concerned about a part of things, because that too is looking in a partial way. I insist, we consider that we need a fair system. I agree with Mrs Kortajarena that our concepts of justice are quite distant. I also insist that we need an impeccable system with the management of the public resources of all people, but we also need to be impeccable in the management of the public role we play as representatives of the citizenry. And in that regard, we also need to consider the danger of the active criminalization of poverty from this rostrum. That's not worth looking at anywhere else either. I want to stay... because we have the ability to see things half full or half empty, and I want to stay with the ability we have had to put in the center an agreement for some concrete things. Deep down? We don't agree. We have time, opportunity, opportunity to discuss long; I hope that we will all do so from the point of view of responsibility. Today we put on the table to equip this campaign with content, to make this campaign accessible, to focus an information campaign on specific needs, to evaluate these campaigns (it is also necessary; it has not been able to come out in the agreement, I hope we can continue to talk about it), and of course to put people in the center. We have to be able to handle this from somewhere else, Mrs. Garrido, because if in this we continue to use income guarantee income as a bold weapon we all lose, Mrs. Garrido. We've all lost. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. The representative of the EH Group, of the Kortah, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u49	Yes, ma'am, thank you again. The drawback, Mrs Garrido, is that the debate is out of focus. The debate is out of focus, because all these months of appearances have shown that RGI has quite more dysfunctionalities than fraud, and that there are other systems that have an infinitely greater fraud than that of RGI. And then what you do is distort that reality. You do orchestrated campaigns based on RGI fraud, a fraud that has been proven to be non-existent. And if not, let's compare last week's news: 3.7 million Pakistani plot; you know what the tax fraud figures were that same week, right? Do you know them? One hundred eighty-five million. That is also another reality, with which, well, let's go... Our group is certainly concerned. You ask us a question: "Does it look good on you?". Well, obviously, no. You have heard me say millions of times that any element that comes to allow the system to be better controlled we support it, because it legitimizes it. We've said it a thousand times! Do not be surprised, because we have repeated these words, which are from Mr Imanol Zubero, over and over again. We've repeated it over and over again. But, as much as we are concerned about that, and even more, we are concerned about the social cost, Mrs. Garrido, of the 59,000 people who at the moment... Self-employed, non-self-employed, pensioners, people on the street, people suffering from sexist violence, all of these people are suffering situations of severe exclusion, poverty, and a situation that is chronicled, and they stay out of a system that all of you and all of you say is the best by the way. That social cost is what worries us, and it is an infinitely higher social cost than the fraud of the GIR. And that's the problem of speeches like the one you've come to do here today, because you've accompanied your speech today with a tweet, Mrs. Garrido, that was on the same line. I mean, let's not mess things up either. I'd just say one thing to Mrs. Too much, and I'd say that things have to be relaxed. Around the campaign three debates were given: one general, this general discussion, which we agreed to give to those who have low pensions, the other, and the third. There's no opposition. And I don't think we come here every Thursday, every Thursday, with this bells story. Because it's not fair. Three times! We've discussed this three times. And I think if we go to a great agreement about this matter to explain all the points that serve to the table, all the discussions that serve to add, whether they are given at the committee, or from this door, they must be welcome. Because of other things, as we must show here, we are fit to arrive at extensive agreements. That's what they've been good for, and that's what they've got to do. And in this sense, in that vast design of consecration, it seems to me proper, that it may be very convenient to be able to discuss it as often as it ought to be. Besides, we have obtained from all these discussions: One, having come to the grand agreements, two, this campaign, being to be carried out. And three, we have discovered them, we have added a table of special problems with certain specific collectiveities. And this, too, will give us some alarms or sparks, and when we come to that reform, and to guarantee the reforms about the profession, and the revenues to the reform of the revenue, will give us occasion to bring all those elements which constitute the reality of RGI into reform. In this sense, then, it will be useful. That's why I think it's important to relax things. And just thank you for coming to this deal, and that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Basque Socialists. Mrs Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u51	Yes, President. Look, Mrs Garrido, today we came here to discuss, as all the groups have shown, a specific issue, which was to extend that information campaign, which we discussed on other occasions and in other respects, with regard to the group of self-employed people, so that this group can receive information so that they can learn more about the rights they have in order to receive income guarantee income. But you continue to try to always divert the speech to the issue of fraud, and today you have done it again. Although they know that the volume of fraud is minimal, but they still want to put the focus of attention only... Let us have the debate we have here, and let us try to make all the efforts we want to lead the reform in the area of achieving greater protection, only and exclusively by teledirecting and diverting the discourse back to that line of fraud. And that's not it. There are many representatives, now we are seeing how they are coming and appearing in the Basque Parliament different representatives. What are those attendees telling us in the vast majority of cases? We need to make use of the goodness of our income guarantee system, which has many good things and is a good system, and much better than that existing in other parts of Spain, and of course also in relation to other European countries. And that is a falsehood and it is a mistake to focus exclusively on the issue of fraud, which is what you continue to do all the time. That this is a mistake and is a way of distorting the reality that does not favor at all, and that every time citizens perceive it what is being given is a falseness of the situation and it is a mistake. What needs to be done is to put all our efforts into improving and correcting the system of income guarantee protection. Fighting fraud? Of course. We all agree that fraud must be combated! But don't put the focus of attention only at the same point, because the focus and the lights are much wider, and you only always focus on that point. And that can't be. Let's see if they ever change their speech and we all really start working together in that broad consensus that we continually talk about, to achieve precisely that: having a much better system of income guarantee protection than we have now. That is what we are making all the efforts of all the parliamentary groups in this House, except yours at the moment, which is still trying to put that focus at all times... As soon as you have the slightest chance, again, Brrrum!, I go to the same place as usual. And it's very tiring, it's very tiring, but, even if you repeat it five hundred times, we'll keep coming out here and telling you five hundred times that's not the case. And that today we came to talk about something else, which is the information campaign, yes, the information campaign that we believe is positive to carry out, when that information campaign is carried out on different aspects of the subjective right to income guarantee income, also for self-employed workers, who in many cases do not know that right and that it is good that they are included in that information campaign, as has also been put in place, also for them to know, the supplement to the lower pensioners, etc. That was today's objective, and I am, of course, pleased and pleased that the various political groups have once again reached a broad consensus to carry out that campaign. And that's what I'm staying with, because that's what we have to stay with, to keep working to keep on improving, to carry out that campaign, which is what we came to talk about today, and to keep on improving that Basque income guarantee protection system. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u52	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Too much of a woman, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u53	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Look, Mrs. Garrido, you're a specialist in plotting the debates. There was unanimity with regard to the original initiative, and you are a specialist in tangle absolutely everything. And I'm going to tell you one thing: I'm not going to admit that I'm saying that the system isn't fair. I'm not gonna admit it. And besides, the initiative didn't talk about it. One thing is that in your debate you have mentioned it, but you do not say it once, either in your initiative or in justification, or in nothing, the word "just", which is going to speak of a just system. The system is fair, obviously improveable, and that is why we are all engaged in a process of improvement, both of the Law for the Guarantee of Income and for Social Inclusion and of the management of Lanbide. If you want to talk about controls, fraud, which you like so much, Lanbide's work, if it's good, if it's bad... you have enough experience in this Parliament to know all the initiatives you can put forward in this regard. But it seems to me at least unsavory, not to tell you another qualification, to take advantage of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid, to bring in a concrete initiative (concrete), which talks about an advertising campaign for the self-employed, and to speak absolutely of everything, throwing crap above all the system, that I do not think it helps at all to create that agreement that I think we are looking for all groups (at least, of course, this yes) in order to be able to make a paused, consensual modification, for the improvement of the law, that I believe in that we all agree. The protection system we have is good, and, I insist, is just, powerful, and of course improveable. And in that we are, in that we are, but let us act responsibly, paused, and move forward, but not by setting fire to debates here and taking advantage of concrete things to talk about your book, your mantra, your usual mantra, your fraud. On the subject... Look, since he likes fraud so much, I would like to know whose responsibility it is to know that some documents are false or not, because I do not think that responsibility also falls on the workers of Lanbide. [[Estoy hablando yo, señora Garrido, su turno ya ha passo.]] On the subject of using the system as a bold weapon, as Mrs Guanche said, I do not think it facilitates or favours at all what we are all looking for, which is to have a good system and a protection for the people who are worst going through it in our country. I only want to say, Madame Kortja's, that all disputes are well agreed, that we have no difficulty in taking part in the disputes which are brought here; But, well, we've finally come to a good deal and we've put focus on this collective group of people who are autonomous to-day, and I'm sure we'll know that from now on we'll have to give this collective response to others. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Now that the discussion is over, we're going to vote with the Basque Populars, together with Podemos, EHG, Eukal Sozialists, and the Eascan patriots, the middle-line correction that the teams have signed. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 72; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u55	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "Motion, Joseph Ramon Becerr, introduced together by Carollo as members of the Podemos team, the SOS Dei callings-112 of emergency calls. Discipline and final resolution. Proposer turn: Mr. Becerra, it's your word to introduce and get rid of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. In a democracy the Parliament is the recipient of the citizen's will, and therefore the decisions of this legislature ought to be considered as citizens, and they must be ordered for all of us, as well as for the Government. Since our group has been in Parliament for a year, we have assumed that the decisions of this Parliament reflect the will of the citizen, even if we do not like them, and we understand that it is up to the Government to abide by that will of the citizen. And yet, in this matter of SOS-Deiak that is not happening: there have been two resolutions on this issue that have already been breached by the government; hence we have been forced to present a third. My question is why these resolutions with SOS-Deiak are just being violated. Gai honekin hasi gynetik, beti lamba berbera egin diot neure buruari: zergatik SOS-Deiak eta zer dela-eta Jaurlaritzaren jarrera settati hori 112 telefonko langileekin adostasun batera ez iristeko. Why this Government's obstinacy in not responding to the demands of this group. A collective that is successfully performing its work; a collective that develops an essential service for the security of the country and of the citizenry; a small and unprivileged collective (we are not talking about air traffic controllers, we are talking about telephone operators), and a collective that has just demands. They have a salary that barely exceeds 300 euros to the minimum interprofessional wage; they have lost their seniority (some people up to twenty years old), because of the inoperation of this government; they have lost up to the extra transport they had, which forces them to pay up to 200 euros from their pocket in order to be able to move to the job, and they have requests as elementary as resting a day and a half between shifts, or that their more of nightness goes from 1.5 euros an hour, to 2.7. Why, then, the government's lock on SOS Deiak. It's easy: to give him an experience. First of all, to give experience to the public workers, saying, "Listen! Your conditions are better than those of these, and if you move, your future will be as follows: priorization. And, on the other hand, to give experience to sub-concontradicted workers, saying, "Look what's the matter with those who dare to protest." The aim of this Government, as I say, seems to be to give a scare. To give a first relief to the public workers, saying, "Look what awaits you if you move. Your conditions are better, but privatization awaits you, as is already waiting for you in health, security and many other areas." And on the other hand give a scare to all those workers and subcontracted workers who dare to protest. And in that mission of giving a scare, up to three departments of the Government have gathered. First, the Department of Safety and Security, obstructing any improvement in the terms and conditions for the recruitment of this service. Secondly, the Department of Governance, prohibiting and preventing the Department of Security from mediating and entering into negotiations between women workers and companies. And thirdly, the Department of Labour, which, in a shameful procedure, has prevented them from exercising fundamental rights such as the right to strike, establishing minimum services of 100 per cent, and ignoring the complaints made by women workers between May and June about non-compliance with the basic rules on the right to strike. This is an unequal struggle. This fight is not balanced. It's on one side that you're going to deny the improvements in the three teams, to avoid conjecturing, and to remove the rights. And on the other hand, workers: Fifty brave women fighting with dignity for the claim of their rights. In this unequal struggle we have a government that uses all its legal, administrative and coercive weapons, and some workers who, however, have more powerful weapons: the reason for their demands, the dignity of their struggle, and the example of their daily, professional, resolute work, and giving immediate response to a call every six minutes, which is what these workers receive. And in the face of this, what position will the different groups take? What do we do? Our opinion, together with the opinion of Podemos, is clear: We're on the side of reason, we're on the side of dignity and we're on the side of professionality. And that's why we introduced this motion. Today our group is again positioning itself on the side of the workers, on the side of their example, on the side of their dignity and on the side of their courage, and that is why we have tabled a motion that asks at the first point to highlight the work they do for this society. And we must expressly thank the People's Group and the EH Bildu group that they have understood that this is not an ideological motion, that it has nothing to do with it, and that we can all unite in favour of a basic and essential service for this country, and in favour of the workers who are doing it well every day. In our motion we also ask, on the second point, to respect this Parliament and its decisions, both those we like and those we do not like, as our group does. Thirdly, we ask the Government, on the one hand, to monitor compliance with the conditions for the award of the service (point 4), something elementary that has not been fulfilled in the previous contract, and to involve itself in an agreement between the company and the staff, so that they can obtain an agreement of their own and obtain remuneration according to their tasks. And why do we ask the government? Because the government, today, is the majority shareholder of the contracting company of the service. In other words, the Government has awarded itself the SOS-Deiak telephone service. And that is why we want to know whether the €600,000 increase in the budget line for this service is going to go to the salaries of the workers or will go to increase the dividends of the entrepreneurs who share Lanalde's property with the government. And here's the thing. So, to conclude, our position is that we want a more just and more secure society, and that the conditions of the workers who make possible must also be fair and dignified. We believe, in conclusion, that Basque society, which is a tenacious and working society, recognizes and must recognize the work, the value of the work of these people, of their people, of the people who carry out the tasks of health, of the police, of education and, of course, of the care of emergencies. And we could not understand that the Government of this country is not up to that society that understands and recognizes this work; we could not understand that this Government is not up to the generosity, effort, dedication and professionalism shown by these workers day by day. This Government is talking, day after day, about sustainable human development. Here you have a good opportunity to implement that sustainable human development, to make it happen, and to meet the demands of these workers as they deserve. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u57	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Ugarte, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u58	Good morning, everyone. Well, I'm perfectly aware of what Mr. Becerra said. This argument is not new, it has already been examined before, and it seems as if the Eucomune would listen to the demands of the workers and the law-suits of the various parties. I don't agree with one thing and that's not just $112, it's a model management model. And that model of managing EAJ, which they like so much, is the model of public and private collaborations, that is to guarantee the profits of corporations, and to listen to them and to avoid responsibilities. And I think that's the important element, and in some way we should consider it, isn't it? Therefore, I am perfectly satisfied with the points you put forward, and EH Collect will protect them all, and we have made a further correction, because we believe that this affair is solved, but that apart from this, the public administration must, in some measure, introduce the clause of this kind into all the contractes of the EAE. That is to say, all the public services that the Basque MUY gives or the Administration in daily life, 24 hours, 365 days, should be public. The left always defies a strong public sector, and the EH Collector always makes a choice for a powerful public sector. It's hard to understand why some services are entirely public and the Administration are directly broadcasting (which might be bordering on the fire service or the emergency emergency services). But I don't know why, too, the administration of health, education, etc., gives them directly), and why the Administration decides to provide a few services in private, i.e. to sterilize them. There's a way in the Administration history to externize these services. The costs decrease, but the cost decreases in proportion as the workers' necks, the rights of workers are not full, the contractions of the workers being of this kind, and the administration of the administration on the other hand. Otherwise these costs should not be so low, and it would not be profitable to prevent these services, or to extenuate them. And that's the one behind it. I mean: Administration may provide more services in a private way, but what it does is legally a guarantee of the profit of private corporations, which is three, six percent officially, but then we all know that it increases. Why? Because these private corporations have management money, and they can decide within that range of management workers suddenly to apply a cynicium to the state, so that they don't apply to local convictions and so on. So, if the Administration decides once, he's going to privatize these services, he's got two choices. One, now that he does, (and the councillor explained clearly, that is to say: "This is not my responsibility. I take a few plegus and santas pascuas that happens there." And that's a bit of the attitude of RedMork on this theme, and, as I said before, in all other areas. Or the other is, arm up, and decide what he's going to do with that private contract, whether he takes those private employees for his employees or not. And although he hasn't been a member of his staff, he's practically his employees. I mean, workers that serve 1,12 are public workers. And as long as they're public workers, you're supposed to have the responsibility. And what he can't say is that he won't do an intermediary in this contract, and that he'll leave the company with all the management force. And the requirements of the workers who serve this service are not important to him because they don't care about his business. He has done the same thing in the case of the Biscacia, he has done the same thing in Gipu, in the service of the Aldunians, in the service of the Residences, in that affair, when EH Collector decided to participate in that conflict, or when he decides to make a interference in various other conflicts. Because they're doing it through the prosecution, they're filed with the investigations and all. That is to say, it must be the rudder: In the conflicts between companies and workers, the Administration is out. And this is neither ethical nor esthetically nor anything. So that's what I think when you get your picture clean, we have to be ambitious. This contract is associated, the plascims are pure disasters, and the way we have now is the intermediary, just like you plan on your motion. To moderate them in some degree, to improve, at least, those ill-conditions which these workers have, and to fulfil all their demands. But looking into the future, I think that's what we have to do, because, of course, workers of 112 are coming now, but then they'll come back, I don't know what sort of people are doing and then we'll always have the same business. I think that what we have to do is a work of prevention, and this work of prevention is a formula of the law which we accepted in its time in Gipuzia: In all the public administration, in all the Public Administration of the EAE, where the Pledges are made, and when public Contracts are made, they are responsible for the execution of the conditions of the work. This is the social clauses which are necessary for entering the administrative clauses, and which are necessary to prevent these workers from being exposed to the protection of the community, and the administration may, in some measure, have contrivances to provide for them during the whole time of this contract of enterprise. Because that's second. "Well, let the social conditions be fulfilled, the agreement be fulfilled, etc., but then I won't be able to participate in anything while the contract is alive, I won't be able to follow it." "and he supposes these companies to cost you zero. That is to say, these companies have no restraint at all, or they have the complete autonomy which is to be avoided. What is necessary is the practice of the public administration. This, I think, is what is to be avoided, and in order to avoid it, this is the proposition we make: to make a law, and to receive those clauses. I know that perhaps one of the arguments is not necessarily safe, because when the Gipuzundus proposed it in the Grand Council of Gipulia, PSE tried it, Collect, and Aralar too. At that moment it was made with their support, and with the protection of all the unions, not only with the protection of some, but with the protection of all the unions. And there was PP and EAJ's Abstition, but it was a question of legal intensity. It's true that the Basque Authority of competition burned him down and Urquijo too. Urquijo's resource was out of time, so he didn't have a chance, but the Basque Company made a statement that he was going to appeal to competition, that companies weren't compreciative if they did, and so on. And TSJ, the highest organ in the Basque Country, gave reason to the Fundal Foru, and gave reason to the General Council of Gipulia. So we know today that it's safe, that it's possible, that it's real, and I think the Administration is responsible for that. I say: it is a political matter, a matter of political will, and if political will is a matter of will, it will be possible for the workers of 112 to secure their conditions, and in the terms of their enterprise, in which they would like it to be made, by the capture of the Eucomonium, and it will be possible to bring here a law of all the sub-contradictions which lie in the EAE Administration, under the conditions of public administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Ugarte. Passing in the district of teams that don't run, representing the Basque Potion Group. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Egun where you're going. Well, in relation to this subject I asked the Counsellor, and in the motion that was the result of that inquiry I pointed out that it was neither a lock nor a lock by this group nor by Elkarrekin We can in relation to 112, but that the lock and lock come from the Basque Government. In the reply given to Mr. Becerra, the head of the Department of Safety (also in the past) recognizes that the 112 emergency service is an essential service. And it could not be otherwise, because we have all said that here, surely the groups that are going to follow me in speaking also say so, and, as I said, from the Basque Government itself it is said. And it's true, it's an essential service, because it's a service of attention at hard times, it's a service of reference and quality... But it is a service of reference and quality – and we cannot forget – for the good work and professionalism of a quick and effective staff at difficult times, and of a staff with great involvement. And he said that it's a staff with a great implication because he's done a job that the department would have done, but the department hasn't done. And I'll explain myself. I have said this on many occasions and I am not going to go in here to debate, although the direct or indirect management system could be considered, but I have not come here today. But our group is one of those who think that a public service can be provided directly, by the Administration itself, or can compete and be a company, the contracting company, the one that provides it. And that, whether it is a contracting company that provides that public service, does not remove a single apex of the character of public service. But this currency has another face, and that face is that, as such a public service, it is public responsibility that works well, and the Administration has to ensure that the service works well, that the service works well, and that the documents under which the service was drawn up are complied with. It must ensure that the requirements contained in the tender submitted by the undertaking to which the invitation to tender is awarded are met. And the Basque Government's Department of Security has not fulfilled its responsibility in this service. The workers of this service, in addition to carrying out their work and carrying out it well, have carried out another one which should have been carried out by the Administration itself, and is to check whether the specification was being complied with or not by the contracting undertaking. And it has been shown that it has not been fulfilled. And that has nothing to do with the employment relationship between companies and workers, in which the Basque Government says it does not have to get involved. That has to do with public money, with the use of public money, the money that a company is paid to do what it has committed to when it was awarded and has not done. And they haven't, they haven't met the requirements that were contained in the agreement: there's no retention on guard, they don't manage social media profiles, they haven't given them the compromised training, they haven't trained them in a foreign language as they committed. And from the Basque Government has this been verified? Have these requirements really been checked? No, it hasn't been checked. Because this was supposed to be for the benefit of the service, right?, that all these issues were the ones that helped that company win the contest, right? All these issues would have been known much earlier by the Basque Government if it had met with the women workers, who did not. Even so, they – as I say – have done a work that does not correspond to them, they have made multiple complaints, they have made reports of the number of people who are in each shift, proving that the specification is not met. With this we consider that, in addition to other pluses, they should charge the plus for watching, a plus for performing a function that should have been performed by the Administration itself. I have pointed out on other occasions that at the time of writing it was when it was convenient and necessary to collect the data to resolve the dysfunctions it presented, and to gain in quality and efficiency in the service. That is why I pointed out the convenience of meeting with the workers, but it did not take place, although, as I said, these dysfunctions are known by the Government because they have been sent to the Emergency Directorate through Zuzenean. And the Basque Government has ignored it. It has also ignored Parliament's requests for social clauses to be included in the package. When I asked the counsellor, she pointed out that the service should be awarded to the best guarantor of the service, and I agree with that, of course. What I disagree with is whether this is going to happen in the next competition, in the next award. Because the Department of Security, as I have said on other occasions, has not met with the workers. In his reply to Mr Becerra, he said that some of the issues we raised there were in conflict with legality. Do meeting with the real workers clash with legality? To listen to them, to hear from their mouth how the service works, what dysfunctions are there, how can the provision of that service be improved, does that really conflict with legality? And it has not been done, but it has not been done by the Basque Government but not by the company. The company does not want to hear about job improvements or a specific agreement other than telemarketing, and I want to point out what I have said here on other occasions. Beyond the fact that the Basque Government is the majority shareholder of that company, beyond the grounds of justice – because it is not the same thing to offer a change of telephone company as to attend to a call in distress, as these workers have to do – I believe it is a matter of convenience of the Basque Government itself. The situation of staff in a service, their working conditions, has an important bearing on the quality of the provision of that service. Therefore, without having to interfere in this relationship between the company and the workers, the Administration, in our view, in exercise of its responsibility, because it is a public service, and a public service that must work well, should be concerned that the working conditions of the persons providing that service are adequate. Because there are other telephone services in the Basque Government itself that have different conditions. With regard to the initiative, we had not tabled any amendments, because we shared the points set out here. Of course, we share that first point, which is to highlight the work done by people who care for the 112 emergency phone. A service whose performance implies a specialized and urgent assessment of calls received under conditions of high responsibility and stress, all of which requires specific qualification and remuneration according to the tasks they perform. We can probably all share this point, but putting it into value must assume that this putting it into value has consequences. Because a statement that is very good, as I always say, like "and peace in the world", can be very good and that we all agree on that point, but if then that has no consequences, nor does it reflect on the working conditions of some people who, as I say, their work is very different from offering a telephone company change, then, I think, that development is very short. We also call for the implementation of the agreements adopted in relation to the staffing structure of the emergency care service. I believe that it is a matter of political will, which in many matters does not conflict with legality or has nothing to do with legality. As I said before, meeting with the workers, really and effectively making that motto that the Basque Government works for people and takes people into account... because meeting with those workers would be putting that slogan into practice and not leaving it on such a motto, as is being done at this time. We urge to mediate before the contracting company, and we believe that this does not mean supplanting the action that must be taken between companies and workers. No, no, But it does involve that, as I say, working conditions are really right, because that results in the proper functioning of the service. And the fourth point, which I think is yours, and we shouldn't even put it here, because, come on, it rubs the spurt that we have to remind the Basque Government that it has to monitor that the law is being enforced... Because from the moment a competition is awarded to a company the specifications and the fulfillment of its offer that is law, because the contract is law between the parties. I therefore believe that in fulfilling your responsibility and your obligation, you must ensure that the contract is fulfilled. That's why we, beyond...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u61	Finishing up...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u62	I'm finishing up, Madam President. That is why we, beyond highlighting this service, want to really solve, regardless of whether they can also arise in other recruitments, to solve the problem of women workers who we consider to be carrying out a professional job, who carry out a job at very difficult times, who solve it very well, and from our group we want to put the granite sand so that it continues to work well and that they have conditions according to the work they perform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u63	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u64	Good morning again. Again in this House, and for the fifth time, an initiative is presented regarding the emergency call service SOS Deiak-112. I certainly – I don't know the rest of the colleagues who had to intervene before I did – had my doubts in raising the intervention, since we have already expressed ourselves in this regard on two occasions, this is going to be the third. I said, "Well, how do I deal with this issue, because our position since January or April has not changed?" I mean, we're still keeping the same speech that we said in January and that we said in April. And in January I remind you that we were already convinced of the opportunity for the public administration to introduce social clauses in the administrative contract it makes; a possibility that I will have to remind you that there is thanks to the fact that in the last parliamentary term some of us are committed to ensuring a viable (which already exists) law, that is to say, with viable social clauses, although others were committed to the fact that from this Parliament we decided how things have to be done by others and they were committed to the fact that this law would obviate something as small as the freedom of the agents in collective bargaining, something we also had to talk about today at the first point of this plenary. Elkarrekin Podemos was not there at the time, but, as in the first point we have discussed, it has been expounded with regard to what he believes can be done from a forum in collective bargaining, for it is no more to remember simple things like this that we in Parliament do not have the collective bargaining of working conditions, that we have established that they are trade unions and employers. By fulfilling that parliamentary mandate, these social clauses, whether you like them or not – and you can read the specifications – have been incorporated by the Basque Government into the tender documents. In particular, paragraph 6.33, which sets out six special clauses for the implementation of the contract (those relating to language rights and the employment integration of persons with difficulties in access to the labour market, on occupational safety and health, respect for the working conditions recognised to workers by collective agreement, or those relating to the promotion of equality between women and men), in addition to the award criteria, which have also been included: the transitional plan for the subrogation of workers who currently provide the service, as set out in the collective agreement which applies to them, and the initial and continuing training needs to be carried out by the contracting undertaking, as well as the relevant checks to be carried out by the undertaking during the entire execution of the contract, to ensure that it is complied with. All this doesn't have to sound new to them, because I remembered it and mentioned it in the speeches I made in January and April. But you will all remember that in those two interventions I marked a limit, whether you like it or not, and that is that there is an existing legal framework. I said to them, and I read them textual: "Now all this must be done without exceeding the limits imposed by the current legal framework and without it implying an interference in collective bargaining that must be freely agreed by the employer and the representatives of the workers." This was and is for us a nuclear issue, and we have been repeating in this House on this and other matters which, as I remind you, we have had the opportunity to discuss today also on the first point. The contracting of works and services carried out by the Basque Government must be based on respect for the working conditions agreed in collective bargaining, and in this respect it is essential that they be incorporated in the specifications, and this has been done in the bidding of this contract. As the adviser stated in her reply to the inquiry, the new collective agreement signed just six months ago by employers in the sector and by the majority unions UGT and Workers' Commissions has been annexed to the specifications. It is an important fact, and you seem to want to be oblivious to the proposal that you are bringing to this Parliament today. There has been an agreement, there has been an agreement between the representatives of the workers and the representatives of the enterprises of the contact center sector, which includes, likes or does not like, this sector of activity, to establish the working conditions in which these services are to be provided. Do collective agreements establish decent conditions, or unworthy conditions? Are the Members of Parliament telling me that to respect a collective agreement is to include unworthy conditions for workers? Okay. I would say to them then, and I repeat to you now: the Administration cannot intervene in areas that are not within its competence. Do not be tempted to try to replace collective bargaining by parliamentary forums. It is within the framework of this collective negotiation that the representatives of legitimately elected workers have demanded, defended and managed to reach an agreement with employers in this sector. A pact that includes in its article 18 the subrogation of workers in case of replacement of the successful tenderers; an article that establishes the conditions, limits and procedures for the exercise of this right along two extensive sheets. A pact which also regulates the vocational training of workers in this sector. And they have also agreed salary increases for 2017, 2018 and 2019; these last two years with references to the most half-point CPI, one of the data we were also using this morning to find out whether or not that is going to keep the purchasing power, or increase it. A pact reached within the framework of collective bargaining that also reflects the devoutness of pluses by languages, by language co-officiality, by holiday, by night, by transport... All that is claimed is collected. And that sets a minimum wage for the category not of telephone operators, as you have called them, but of telephone operators – because they are more than telephone operators – of 16,193 euros, without including in this calculation pluses according to calendar (i.e. holidays and nights), which will depend on how they perform them. We firmly believe that it is within this framework that the legitimate aspirations for improving the working conditions of women workers must be developed, and that there is a proper framework for working relations in the Basque area that can be used if these conditions are to be improved as well. And I believe that the proposing group is wrong to try again to interfere with the establishment, from this Parliament, of the working conditions under which this contract is to be governed. We cannot, cannot and should not supplant social agents. They cannot and should not shift the framework of collective bargaining to the plenary of this House for five times. However, there are points in your proposal with which we do agree and which, if you allow the point vote, we would like to be able to support. We are referring to points 1 and 4 to urge the Basque Government to value the work done by the persons handling the emergency telephone 112, and, on the other hand – and what is important to us – to urge the Department of Safety to verify throughout the validity of the contract that the company scrupulously complies with the conditions imposed on it in the specifications, including respect for the labour rights that assist these workers according to their collective agreement. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Lachaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u66	Good afternoon, good afternoon, Mr. President, chief physician. Thank you, ma'am. Partners. Today, once again, we are discussing the initiative of the Podemos team together, the conditions of working for SOS Deïk, and of course we have discussed that for the third time in this year. It is not the first time we have discussed this subject in the whole assembly, and it probably seems that it will not be the last. In fact, and then we discussed this or that in April about the expeditions of the Popula. I don't know what the discussion was, I tell you, I don't know what the discussion was, and I don't know what we're talking about today, even more from the correction of the EH Collect Group. Mr Becerra, with all due respect that you know I profess, I have to tell you that your initiative is out of time and out of focus. And I say this precisely because many of the issues raised in his initiative respond positively and objectively to the action of the Government in this area, to which the Government has committed itself and has done so. I will have the opportunity to point this out later and with a little more detail. On the other hand, Mr Becerra, you know that the main task of this House is to legislate, primarily to legislate, and then there are the functions of control and impulse to government action. On the question of the separation of powers, we could talk long and hard, but, while respecting its role as an impulse at all times, I must point out that it is not acceptable for this House to interfere so much with the recruitment of a service, however important and sensitive it may be, more when that procedure is in progress. The reiteration in the debate on the management of a procurement by the Administration cannot and should not interfere with the conditions of transparency and strict submission to the regulatory legal framework for this public sector activity. I can say it louder, but I don't think I can make it any clearer. More so when it comes to a very wide-ranging issue in this Parliament, in this House, as Mrs Castelo has pointed out, with three parliamentary initiatives this year, two appeals and some other question to the Security Adviser. Having said that, and in any case, I will ask you, as Mrs Castelo has done, to take the vote point by point, and if so, we would vote affirmatively on points 1 and 4, because they somehow affect what is already being done by this government. With regard to the first point, it refers to highlighting the work done by telephone 112 service providers, which requires specific qualifications and remuneration in line with the tasks they perform. Well, the Security Adviser has already stated in the Basque Parliament that the professional training of these workers is not at issue from the department; on the contrary, the assessment of the department is very positive with regard to the work of these staff. This service is being provided in a very professional way, always, I do not doubt, to the service of the citizens, and this, among other reasons, because the training required in the recruitment documents to the persons attending this service is demanding, with an essential initial basic training, according to their professional category, and continuous training that results in a continuous improvement of their training, and with a total protagonistism in this regard by the Basque Academy of Police and Emergencies. In addition, internal and external audits are required to contribute to this continuous improvement. This specific qualification is therefore required and applied. And the remuneration of workers is that fixed for their working conditions, at least, Mr Becerra, the salaries fixed by the collective agreement in this sector, which has been modified and improved this year thanks to the second collective agreement at the state level in the contact centre sector, published in the OJE on 12 July but whose economic effects fall back on 1 January 2015. However, we must stress the idea that the department does not pay the workers, and therefore does not pay the payroll. What it does is to pay the contractor for the hours of service provided according to its number, professional category and time range, i.e. working days or holidays, day or night hours, and either teleoperators, managers or supervisors. Therefore, another of the points mentioned in the justification for this motion, already included in the compromise amendment of 26 January (that of creating a work bag for layoffs and replacements), cannot be accepted, because they are not workers of this Administration, and therefore it is not appropriate to create a work bag. One thing is that this service of SOS Deiak-112 is a public service and public responsibility, which it is, and something else that the workers who are hired by the contractor company for the provision of that service are public employees. That's not the case, they're not public employees. The provision of workers in cases of unemployment is the responsibility of the contracting company itself, and not, Mr Becerra, not the Administration, which does not maintain any kind of employment relationship with those workers or exercises any power of management or headship over them. With regard to the fourth point, it refers to the Department of Safety and Security verifying in a reliable manner the compliance with the conditions set out in the specifications throughout its entire period of validity. It should be said here that it is not necessary for the department to be urged to carry out this verification, since the procurement rules so require: strict compliance, during the performance of the contract, with the provisions of the specifications and with the commitments entered into by the contracting undertaking. This is usually done by both the technical services of the Administration and their managers. This is usually done, and so it has been done so far in the emergency call service SOS Deiak-112, and it will continue to be done with any company that is a contractor of that service, as it cannot be otherwise. Now, we have more problems with the second and third points. The second point concerns the implementation by the Basque Government of the agreements adopted on the working conditions of the workforce. This is the compromise amendment adopted with the votes of strange bedfellows, the parliamentary groups of EH Bildu, Elkarrekin Podemos and the People's Party. We then said that the non-law proposal passed on January 26th was a child and a toast to the sun. In some of its sections it was not applicable to this service because it was not permitted by the law on public procurement. In particular, the rules of recruitment and the jurisprudence of the courts have established that the subrogation of workers cannot be imposed by the public administration through the recruitment documents. If there is or is not an obligation to subrogate, this must be established by the labour rules, whether it be the Workers' Statute or the respective collective agreements. The Department of Safety and Security has done its utmost to ensure that workers maintain their working conditions and, as far as possible, improve them, that is, within the field of play that leaves us the rules of recruitment. There are a few measures laid down in the package leaflets in favour of workers. I am not going to detail them, Mrs Castelo has already done so profusely, but all these measures are done in order to prevent companies from being tempted to over-reduce the prices they offer, in clear prejudice to the wages of their workers. And our arguments, Mr Becerra, are legal arguments and arguments of competence. As regards the third point, it refers to the fact that the Basque Government is involved and mediate between the company and the staff, so that a specific agreement can be agreed adapted to the particularities of the service. This objective cannot be met by the Government for a number of reasons. Firstly, it would be an illegitimate interference in an area which is exclusively the responsibility of businesses and workers. The public administration should not interfere in the negotiation of the working conditions that the parties can and must negotiate between them, with full freedom and autonomy. If the Government tried to mediate, it could be accused by one party (by either party, whether the employer or trade unions) of favouring or appealing to the interests of the other party. It is not the competence of the public administration to participate in the negotiation of the working conditions of workers who are not part of its staff. In addition, the Workers'Statute, and in general labour regulations, already provides for mediation and arbitration in the event of collective conflict, and such channels and forms should be resorted to. That is the position of the Nationalist Group in relation to the motion submitted by the Elkarrekin Podemos Group concerning the SOS Deiak-112 service. For the reasons set out above, points 1 and 4 of the motion are admissible; points 2 and 3 are not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u67	Thank you, Mr. Lachaga. Passing on the answers, Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u68	Mr Latxaga, this Parliament does not interfere with the procurement of public services: it supervises, evaluates, and, above all, highlights the falseness or weakness of the arguments you are using. My parliamentary colleagues have made that very clear. Mrs Ugarte has pointed out that a government can introduce social clauses and that it is perfectly legal to introduce them; something else is whether or not it wants to be. And my colleague Mrs Llanos has made it clear that within the resolutions that have been adopted in these months there have been some that have been perfectly achievable, and neither have they been implemented. And that is the responsibility of this Parliament to monitor it and to make it clear. Each and every one of the arguments you have said have been false. And they talked about the illegality of certain conditions. Look, the only illegality that is being committed right now is being committed by the Labour Department by putting a minimum of 100 per cent services. Last Monday, the Supreme Court ruled that a minimum of 100 per cent in 112 violated the right to strike. The Supreme Court. Mrs. Castelo, ask your department why you are in breach of the law expressly. And by the way ask also why all the complaints of SOS-Deiak workers have not been answered. Ask what drawer they're in, and then come and teach us lessons, not before. It is a matter of political will, and Mrs Llanos has said, to improve the leaflets, involving the Government, and even the possibility – which Mrs Ugarte has also said – of publishing the service. But we're not getting into this. The Government's sole aim with this issue is not to create a precedent, a precedent that highlights the problem of outsourcing and outsourcing services today. You have said that you will approve two of the four points of the motion. What are you going to approve of? The first one they will approve is to demand, to urge the Government to ensure that the remuneration of women workers is commensurate with the tasks they perform. You, Mr Latxaga, have said that the government has a very positive assessment of these people's work. Do you also have a very positive assessment of your remuneration? Do you think it's in line with the work you're doing? Because you are voting for it to be remuneration according to the tasks you perform. Is EUR 16,000 (16,000) gross in line with the essential task that these workers are carrying out? That's what you're voting for. And the fourth point, which is being voted on, Mrs Llanos has not been able to leave it. You are acknowledging that the last contract has not controlled compliance with the conditions of service. It hasn't been controlled. You can vote for it or not, but that's what you're voting for. You are saying that the convention that applies to you has been included in the last leaflet. The agreement which applies to them, the contact centre, is the telemarketing agreement. Is that the agreement that applies to these workers? Is this it? Is that really it? The main problem that came here is precisely the result of that, that they are doing a service that is essential, and, if it is an essential service, can it be met with a telemarketing agreement? There is right now in Castile and León a specific agreement for 112, and here in Euskadi there are agreements such as ambulances, which is much more suitable or is more assimilated to the work they are doing. You have not included that convention; you have again included the telemarketing convention, which is not applicable. Mrs Llanos said that the important thing is that the service works well. Of course, but let us bear in mind that it is working well right now not because of the Government, but because of the commitment and professionalism of the workers, and that must be made clear. Good service is being done despite the Government. Despite the government. And there's one very important thing. Because you said, "You can't interfere with the company-worker relationship." You have said this, Mrs Llanos, and Mrs Castelo has apostilled: "collective bargaining is done by trade unions and employers". If I have made it clear here that the employer in this case is the government, because Lanalden owns the government in 33% of the shareholder, through the Hazilur fund, which is owned by the Department of Economic Development and Infrastructure. The employer is the government; that's why he can mediate. That's why you can mediate, not for anything else. Because it is the government that has the majority in the Lanalden company to which this service has been awarded. And it is going to be difficult – and I will finish now, Madam President – that we can bring this issue a fourth time, and it is not possibly desirable either, but what I would like to take advantage of my last words to encourage the workers to continue in their struggle. Because fighting for dignity with the courage with which they are doing it, for their rights, makes this Parliament worthy, and also makes this society worthy. Because a better and fairer society, with sustainable human development, can only be achieved when the workers fight for their rights and do so with the dignity with which you are doing it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u69	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Unite the EH team as representative. Madam Ugarte, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u70	How little surprises these parliaments are, unfortunately. It's clear from the government support teams: what an appeal is to the conditions of the workingmen. That's an order. A lot of excuses including legal mistakes. Including the legal mistakes! Subrogation is legal. And going all that way... Oh, I didn't expect that! Subrogation is legal, and the law recognizes that workers need to be subconscious. You wouldn't have this problem if this service was published. And I insist: With this service and the services which are to be paid every day, we should attempt to publish these services, and the conditions of these workers, to be like those of the whole administration, because otherwise we have enormous differences between one and the other under the terms of our own interests. And I don't think politically it's quite right to work with a two-rate administration, a private administration and a public administration. But I repeat, that once this is settled, that you have once determined the customary services and services which are indispensable, and in this case the services which are so important should be private, at least it must be assured that these services will be provided with quality. And there are two main criteria that can give a service with quality, and there are two main criteria. One is the organization of the service, and the organization of the service must be proper. You need to know what kind of employees you need, what kind of material resources you need, what budget you need, and then these workers have to work under decent conditions, because the quality of workers who don't work under decent conditions decreases. And I'm telling you that I'm a public service user, and I'm seeing that the quality of these public services is dropping down, that the quality of public services, which the Eu-Mojok offers, is extremely low, both in public education and in health, in the two public services I chiefly employ, and that's because the quality of workers and the quality and the quality of their work conditions is enormous. So if we want a quality public administration, a social service... And the majority of society needs public administration. It is true that those who have most economic powers need not public administration, and have their contrivances, their private insurance, their private doctors, their private education, etc. But a lot of people need public administration and need a strong public administration, a potent and a developer. And that's what we need when we call him on the phone, and when there's an emergency, we need him to have the right conditions on the other side. And I want a councillor to take care of those people who are working for him, although he has not a legal relation to him, or has not had a financial relation, he will do his work on suitable conditions. Like a citizen, that's what I'm asking you to do. And what can't be done is that when there's a world-sized conflict with this size, your hands are washed and you can't tell me that it's not his responsibility, and that it's also a few pludes that come out. If we make it clear and neat, you should make a table with these workers, open a table with these workers (Euskon, judkatarian and other companies), you can talk to the workers, agree to the right terms, including the subtrogation clauses. And, of course, there's a second decade, and there's no time to talk about it, if it's the second time, but it's true that in many sectors we don't have a place for jobs, proper and proper. So in many sectors of our work conditions, the references to the conditions of our work are the element. But in front of that, I'm sure you're responsible for it, and he can't do the ostrich like the councillor did the other day in front of Mr. Becerra's interpelration. If he has responsibility, let him accept it and from now on... For I have also seen you reply to Becer, but not to mine, as it seems to enter the great gardens. I believe, as it was in Gipuz, that if there were political will here, it could be done. We need a strong public sector and a strong public sector, we need to develop the conditions of workers in those services we sterilize. And worthy to be workers' conditions according to the economic level of EAE. And we know what the economic level of EAE is, we all know what wages are, and what they are at the county salary, and we need to demand the same thing for those working in private. And as we care for the profits of private corporations who are advocacy (for that's what we care about, and very well! ), they must demand social responsibility, because they are managing public money, as Horace Llanos said, and we should be much more careful in managing public money. So we have to change the pliers, we have to tax the contracts, we have to tax them, and that's why we need the legal security. And a legal security will be given to us by a law, which is what we wish to proclaim today. Eta, well, zorte on. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Ugarte. Basque Popular. Miss Llanos. Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u72	Thank you again, Madam President. Mrs Castelo said that, well, that this was presented for the fifth time, and that she would not know what to say. I recommend that you talk to Mr Itxaso, that there were issues that he was bringing them in many times, and we considered that every time he brought them in, they were relevant. And look, as that saying says, "I threaten to come back", because it is a sufficiently important issue; that, first, it affects a group of people who deserve recognition beyond putting it on top of a role, and, second, that if what is done is not fulfilled, beyond approving all the first point and recognizing the value of both the service itself and the workers, if that is not put into practice and goes beyond the motto, then we will bring the issue back. Because we do not consider you to be at all nightly, Mr. Latxaga. You've called us "strange comrades," now "in bed." We started in the previous full with "travel", now it's "bed". I don't know, as we go on like this, what we're gonna be weird partners about. What happens, Mr. Latxaga, is that it seems that binomials are not strange if you participate in those binomials. As soon as the Basque Nationalist Party is gone, then any combination is strange. And, look, I agree with Mr Becerra on this matter, but because I think it is fair the approaches that have come to me. And the issues that I am defending here today, of involvement in the proper functioning of a public service, I have not only defended them: I have been defending them in the various institutions in which I have been. And, in case you have the temptation, as then I cannot answer you, to tell me that in other autonomous communities... Look, I don't know what's going on in other autonomous communities, but I'm here, in Euskadi, and what I want is for Euskadi's public services to work well. And when they don't work well, and when some workers aren't given the conditions that we think they should have, then we'll be there, because they're workers... I used to say they're public service workers. That I share with you that a public service is managed through a company does not take away its public character, but what does not take away from it is the responsibility of the Government to make it work well and to comply with the specifications under which that public service comes out. And do not tell me that it has been fulfilled, because it has not been fulfilled, because the workers have shown it to the Government, that it has not been fulfilled. They have not been able to say this out loud because the agenda of all the Basque Government, of the entire Department of Security, was attested to and was not able to receive anyone, but they have taken care, through Zuzenean, to send them. And, by the way, the hundred percent... There are other autonomous communities in which, when the minimum services have been decreed, they have been 85%, not a hundred percent like here, eh! 85 %. And we clearly ask that the law be respected, but it is that – as I have said before – I believe that there are formulas, through respect for the law, if there is political will, to... Because the question, Mr.Latxaga, that I ask you (you sincerely answer me, without...): Do you really believe that selling a person a telephone operator change, for example (which is telemarketing), or selling a banking product, performance and work is the same as you are calling, I don't care, because your child has fallen (I have a case), and is telling you what you have to do and who can send it to? Do you really think that's the same thing? Well, well, the Basque government, recognizing that difference... Because we are very European, but in other countries of Europe, which applies, it is true, the telemarketing agreement, however the remunerations between an operator, a manager who is selling a telephone product and an emergency manager are wage differences of 30%. And of course the Basque Government can mediate, it can get involved, it can listen, and more in this case, as Mr Becerra has said, where it has an important part of that company. That an important part of the contracting company of the service is involved by the Basque Government itself! Don't tell me you can't get involved in improving the service. Because I have said this many times: that the working conditions are good, that the conditions are fulfilled, it will be for the benefit of the service, beyond justice with the people who are performing that work. Beyond that justice. And here Mrs Castelo said that a government cannot be involved in collective bargaining at all. That I did not say to start negotiating collective agreements with the workers. I haven't said it at all. I come to claim the same as you do on other occasions...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u73	Please go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u74	I'm finishing up, Madam President. "Gipuzkoa's PSE calls on the government to be involved in the greenhouse agreement. It asks that it be involved in order to achieve a fair agreement between employers and trade unions of summer workers." What we're asking here! "The PSOE denounces the labour dispute between Ferrovial and AVE workers, and calls on the government to intervene in the labour dispute that confronts the contracting company of the service on board the AVE trains and the Ferrovial company". The same, the same is what we are asking here. But I say one thing to you, Mrs. Castelo: if in four years you pass to the opposition, believe me, the first on the banner to demand this will be you, because you have an ease to put yourself in front of and behind the banner, really, which is admirable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u75	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u76	Mr. Becerra said that "Bildu's companion" and "People's Party companion." Well, look, Bildu's companion, who accompanies you here in this recognition of working conditions in a subcontracting, when they had the opportunity to decide – I also remembered it in this forum – when they ruled and had the ability to decide not to privatize a service, in particular the telephone service of the transport service in the Gipuzkoa Diputation, privatized it. And when they had to defend the working conditions of the workers of that service they applied to them the convention of the province of Alicante. Well, that's one of the travel companions you bring up on this subject. The other travel companion you bring to this issue is the lady of the People's Party, who I don't know if I have to remind you (she also does) that at this time defending working conditions is not a matter of standing in front of or behind the banner; it is at least to be consistent when you get out and you say things. Because if at the moment there is a problem in collective bargaining in Spain, not only in the Basque Country, it has to do with a decision adopted by an absolute majority by the People's Party in the reform of 2012, which completely unbalanced the situation of the workers of this country, giving all the instruments to the employer. With this it is very good to do that, disarm and leave us without an instrument of defense against employers to claim the working conditions, and then come here to this rostrum and join you in claiming the working conditions of other workers. Other workers who, at least – and I was saying this morning – have the coverage of a collective implementing agreement, and cannot apply the interprofessional minimum wage to them, as is happening to other collectives. And if the collective agreement agreed and agreed between the employer and the unions, it is not that I want to apply it because it pleases me, but because, if you had read it to them, Article 38 and Article 2 state that it applies to telephone call services in emergencies... And that, by the way, they have a special consideration, because they have group 9 and not group 12: emergency managers are group 9, with a different remuneration to insurance managers, who are in another professional category, and therefore there is also a remuneration. And I already know that you, too, think that 16,000 euros... By the way, basic gross salary; pluses are not included there, nor nocturnal. That you can serve the claim she says, but the night plus is set at 1.62 euros per hour worked. That is what the collective agreement says, and if the company respects that amount they may want to claim more and they will have to do so in self-defence of their rights, but they will have to reach an agreement so that a higher amount can be applied to them. Or are we going to establish in this Parliament, or are we going to establish the Basque Government in its specifications how much more they have to pay, or how much is the basic wage they have to pay, because we do not like the convention that exists, the only one that exists at this time and that regulates this matter? Are we going to be us? All I'm saying is we can't do that. And it is very good that you applaud us in this rostrum and just like you please them, but you have to put your feet on the ground and not give wings where you know you don't have them. All I'm telling you is that we have a State Official Gazette here, and this is law and this has to be done. And if the company does, and the Basque government's responsibility is to ensure that this is done... And that these are the rights that they currently have, and that if they want to fight for different rights they will have to try to have a collective enterprise agreement and fight it where they can, in the collective bargaining between the company and the workers, between the company and the unions, between the company and the workers' platforms that they want to organize to get better claims than the ones that this agreement signed six months ago collects for three years. Therefore, you will be able to come to this rostrum as many times as you like, as many times, but I will not be able to change what I am telling you right now. And it seems to me to be a certain political cynicism that is said here that it has not been controlled, when you have a written reply of 25 October 2017, in which you asked for a written reply regarding the controls being carried out to the company and given an answer, that you will have it just as I have it, which concludes the following way, and you have not even mentioned it today. And he was giving him the data from the eighteen courses he had run, he was telling him how professional profiles are controlled, they were telling him how presence controls in regular services coverage and reinforcements have been controlled, and they were also telling him how the subject of management participation follow-up was also being done. And he concluded all that report, this one you have, in one thing that says: "The technical services of the management (...) have not detected any breach of the conditions of award of the aforementioned contract". You know, they gave it to him in writing. They haven't even mentioned it today. You know, and you will have read as I have read, because we have taken it out of the web, the specification, and you see that there it has been collected that the collective agreement of the sector has to be respected. And here you also know that the subrogation, one of the questions asked by the workers, is collected and all the working conditions that have been agreed again. Therefore, it is very good for us to be applauded, but it is much better, much better, to give speeches with our feet on the ground.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. And finally, the Eubertians. Mr. Lachaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u78	Good afternoon again. About this, I think it's all said, and not now, I think that what I said eight or 11 months ago is worth his life. A thought ought to be made to-day, and here, which is not easy and tender, and to be examined with great care; what has been done and what has not been done, and why, what experience has not been accomplished and what has been secured. Mrs. Ugarte, I'm working on the original initiative, and that's what I'm doing. I don't know whether your correction went up or down, I don't really know, he's sunk into universality. And I don't think I've made a wrong mistake. Still, it's a mistake, but I'm just saying that it's a law project that presents the Chamber and not the suggestions. And the discussion about the public contract was discussed, the clauses were discussed a year and a half ago in this Chamber, where the decision was made. Mr Becerra, they say populism is to offer simple solutions to complex problems. In this particular case I understand that your group, or yourself, at a certain time has the temptation to dance the water to some collective or group and offer such solutions, simple solutions, but the reality is clumsy and it is only necessary to put the data on the table. And the reality is, if there's anything rated, those are the conciliation procedures. And you know that because, as you said the other day here in this House, in the question you made to the councilwoman, you have suffered it in your own flesh. If there's anything rated, it's the hiring procedure. The reality is that the recruitment procedures involve technical staff, staff members seconded to various bodies and services. What is recommended for everyone, then, is not to interfere excessively in matters relating to the award process. What I don't think is right, and I have to hurt your behavior, is what you did last December 1st in the above-mentioned inquiry. First, he said that the contract was already awarded, and second, he related the contracting company to Sabin Etxea, the Catholic Church, Xabier Arzalluz and the Basque Government itself. For the perfect conspiracy, I think Mosad and BBVA were missing. Please don't use this House to throw crap, trash over our seats. Don't use it for that, do it for more upbuilding things. And don't do it for free, without any kind of proof. What you said was very serious, very serious, and you can't let go just like that in this rostrum. If you want to charge someone with prevarication, if you want to charge someone with prevarication and you don't dare, it's your problem. It's his problem. If you have any evidence not based on whispers or dimes and direct you, you have a very close guard court here, and you come to him to file the relevant complaint or complaint. I read this morning that the Royal Academy of Language includes or admits in its dictionary a panoply of terms that have become fashionable in everyday language in recent months and years. The media highlight three terms, three words: "goodness", "postureo" and "post-truth". I sincerely believe that the three, those three terms, define to a certain extent (with different degrees of intensity, that is to say) the position maintained around this issue by the group of Elkarrekin Podemos, the People's Group and EH Bildu. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u79	Thank you, Mr. Lachaga. Now that the discussion is over, we're going to vote first, and we're going to add the EH Collect Group. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 36; counters, 37; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u80	So the add point was not accepted. Next, we vote for the original motion text. No points requested. Is there a problem? Can you throw out the stitches? Okay, so we vote for 1 and 4 points. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 73; supporters, 73; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u81	So they're unanimously accepted. Next, we vote for 2 and 3 points. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 36; counters, 37; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u82	So 2 and 3 points have been rejected. Forth point on the theme list: "Phum up the other bill as the parliamentary team has made, to adapt the school sports to new times. Discipline and final resolution. It's the caller's turn. Mrs. Uberia has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u83	Good morning, head of the table. I should have thanked Mrs. Greart that the discussion was present. I think it's important... All right, you're authorized for a little while. I miss the head of the sports department, because I think it's the big discussion we're having today. It's what we're asking for today's proposal, or we plan it in another way, just to go back to the situation of 10 years ago, that's all. That's what we're asking for. And to place schools in the center. What we're planning is to keep the marketing Act in 14/1998. We plan to fill the 125/2008 Decree. Our proposition proposes no change of competition, but the care of each of us to do its own. No more, not less. And so what we're asking is a part of education. What we are asking for is the first sports experience of children, emotionally for his child, within his natural scope, within the nearest limits, and that area is for the child, near, familiar, college, the center area. Children play, exercise, sport, educational values, experimenting on different sports, increasing as many capabilities as possible to promote the integration of their child's development. The physical activity of the season of school, the quality of sports, and the establishment of foundations, is extremely important, both in order to acquire healthy habits, and in order to know its limits, limits to the knowledge of the children themselves, and to know what are, and to advance what are its springs. For the final solution, conflicts don't work out with the plans Jonan Fernández does. We learn how to deal with conflicts with the daily experiences we experience, and there the sport does a great deal to it. To learn to move in the group, to learn how to move, to cooperate, to multiplicity... Various values are cultivated in physical activity and the practice of sport. But also, and I want to remark, not only that, but later on, after the school-time sports stage is finished, it's extremely important to establish a foundation for future sports. Moreover, when sediment has become extremely important in our society, to play when children are less and less space to move. Look, our people, our small villages, well, but there's so many spaces in the capitals to move children, to play, to enjoy... I don't know how important this school sports is to you guys. I don't know if you're aware of that. I don't know if it's enough for this government, because now this government has been planning for a healthy nutritious food, recently, but recently, a new campaign has been served for its overtime last week. Do you think that those Marchin plans can be more important than everyday policies can be in different areas? For it seems to me often that we exclude the means we have, that we do not observe them, and afterwards we make campaigns. It is important also for the diversity and cohesion of choice. Hence it is extremely important, and pardon the observation of all families, that they have access to it. We were at a college recently in Gaste, and the teachers of it remarked how the school is losing, how the more and more families have more difficult access to it, and it's not just what we've been told in that school, it's just to see the parent unions of the Araba, the Denon School, the documents that Denon has made, or the demands from Bizaca. So to guide them all, it's better than school. Get the school center, part of the school sports school, the curriculum, the cavalcade, the boarded program, included in the school... And that's all they've got to do with farms and councils. Look, ten years ago, he was interested in foreign school activities, and he was interested in sports outside school, and there was a coordinater in colleges. He was. Now the councils are in charge, or their parents care, but we're losing them. But think how much we could gain by all this. Think! Then there's plenty of time, if that basis's settled properly, faithations, clubs to shake hands and intervent them. There is space for all, and all of them are fields to work, but the foundations must be well established. And think how much we'd all win, it'd be a win by the feds, the families would win, but especially children would win if we put them into a school-class style. And I'm saying this not because we say it, or because we think it, but in objective facts, scientific evidence, preliminaries have made various reports, investigations, even in different countries. What kind of results a multiple practice sport is made in early years, what results it has later on, in the surrender sport, in the elite sportsman, in training tournaments... And I'm sure this government knows these reports. There's only one vision, considering the population, if you compare Biscaia, Arba, and Gipuz, the highest rank. Check it out! It's not, it's not, it can't be compared, it can't be compared. So also where we look, there are nothing but benefits, which are proved. That's why I don't understand why this government insists on making obstacles. I don't understand. I don't know where the problem is. Is the problem with sports directors? Is the problem with the Board of Education? I really don't understand. Besides, in the last few years, we've gone in the wrong direction, 125/2008, that Decree. This decree has not been fulfilled, nor have we gone in the opposite direction, and (see how small a country we are), the three parts of the EAE are more and more remote from each other. Each one has a pattern! Well, it's one thing to adapt to the characters of each country. That's one thing, and that's all right with it, but it's another thing afterwards that everyone develops his pattern or has no type. And what are the leading losers at last? Well, the children are the biggest losers. But this is a choice, a decision, and it seems to be the choice and decision of this government. Look what we're asking for today. What we are asking for is the Euscal School of Sports (an organization of this government) and the director of this government, November 24th, was organising in the World Polo of Arrast. And in that act, there were 10 tables and more than 100 people. We demand that this government should perform what the agents demanded, and that the consequences which it contained should be fulfilled. That's all we're asking for. That's all we're asking for. And further, in our middle-class correction, because the government has made a proposition for us, we have received it, it is not possible that we should agree, and that the government now has not received its contribution in the middle of the Party. I don't understand! Why do you organize such exercises? Is it that people are sick? Then you're allowed to make your decisions? The people's demand and their consequences were manifest on November 24, it's an objective fact, and I can't figure it out. And what did they want? What they were asking was that the Board of Education should return to school, return to the Board of Education. The school centres have their own means of co-ordination of educational activities. What's that supposed to mean? That's after all, the Department of Physic Education has only a few hours to coordinate, for planning, for curriculum... That's all. And what it means is, after all, to accept the school programme, to include it, to insert it into the curriculum, to make it an instrument of education, finally to get all the children's hands. That's it! What it means is, from a cross-line point of view, beyond the lensive hours, which has now become very fashionable, to construct integrated politics beyond the lensive hours. Against sedentism, for healthy nourishment, for active life, for the educational values, for equality, for the strength of the unit of education, for the euphora. That's all it means. Is that incompatible with the paper they have, with what they have to do? No! It's not incompatible. Each one has a role. All the papers are important and all the papers are necessary.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing the bookies to the popular Euscal Group. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u85	Yes, thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Well, hearing Mrs. Ubera, it seems that nothing is done or that everything is to be done, and it is not true. That is not true, because I believe that what we do have is a regulation that makes it easier for school sports to take place and for school sports programmes to be run, which are clearly better, surely, but are there, on the table, and that it will not be a GNP that solves some of the problems that may be. We do share the concern about the development of school sport, of course, but I do not disagree, of course, my group does not disagree with the normative model of school sport that we have, Mrs Ubera. We do not disagree with him, regardless of whether, well, we are now in a process of reflection or in a process prior to a legal reform, a regulation, and certainly that congress, those days that you cited have served to focus some way of normative reform, if any, to perfect the model. But we with the model and with the involvement of the outside bodies in school sport do fully agree. We do not want what you say is the background, the background of your intervention, which is not so much school sport, I believe, as you say, that it is to rescue competences from the Basque government of the outlaws, in that neocentricism in which you move in relation to this community. Well, we don't agree with that. We agree with the model of foral and already historical involvement in school sport, and in this sense we are defenders of the model of intervention as it is proposed in the field of foral deputies, which includes the aforementioned legislation, the Law of 98 (Title 5, Chapter I) and Decree 125/2008, on School Sport. We do not want to take them away from the programming of that school sport, which is the competence they are given. The current legislation, from our point of view, guarantees a good way of organizing, which is possible to improve (i.e. there are qualitative differences), but I believe that the model and the organization, and the councils, and the people, and the administrations working in that coordination can be able to improve, to look for the formulas for their application used by those administrations. But we, regardless of whether there may be improvement channels and areas for improvement, understand that the system is correct. Besides, as I said before, it's just that hearing him doesn't seem like he's... No, no. It is that there has been work, work, and hard work, regardless of whether there is any other centre, there is some parenting association that surely sees (and there are) some limitations in what is the collaboration between the Government, the parliaments, the municipalities, that are clearly improveable. I'm sure it is. But for us the model is good. And I think it's also a guarantee of progress. But it is planned, Mrs Ubera, to reform the Sports Act of the Basque Country, and that will be the way forward, and the amendments that you can put forward and that we can discuss, and it will certainly be a constructive debate. But we're not going to work for changing the model. We are not going to work to change the model, and we want that implication of what now exists. And I believe that GNP in this case can remain in one voluntarism when it comes to saying one thing, first of all, and doing another. What you wanted was for the Basque Government and the Department of Education to take on educational competences, and to gradually take on the competences of other entities, such as outlaws. He has modulated, logically, that he saw that he was not going to take the initiative and has modulated, but, in any case, we do not agree. We prefer the initiative that we have signed with the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group, because it focuses on further strengthening what we already have, regardless of whether we understand that it can be improved, from our point of view. It's a good regulation. It will be possible to improve with the revision, with the reform of the legislation that is provided for in this legislature, and it will be there where an improvement can be found. Model improvement, not model change. To perfect the model of organization of the school sport and the competences that the autonomous law, this Law of School Sport, gives to the outlaws, and that speaks about what it speaks about. That is, when he talks about the programmes approved by the outside bodies, when he says the requirements of the outside bodies to authorize the organisation of competitions, the active collaboration of these bodies with the municipalities, with the schools, with the municipal sports centres..., that is, that is what we want to continue to strengthen and strengthen, and that is why we have tabled a compromise amendment where we talk about these issues. We also collect the first part of his initiative, recognizing that school sport is an element of social integration, of health..., there is no doubt, that we have recognized it from the first moment. It may be good that the new rules on school sport are facilitated, some of these issues and some of those characteristics of school sport that are not reflected in the current rules, but, that is, not? Reinforce what may be good about the model we currently have. We understand that these inter-institutional bodies, where the directors of the outlaws and the Sports Directorate of the Basque Government are located, are an appropriate area for action, and in coordination with the other institutions or other entities and educational institutions called upon to participate. And we have also acknowledged, of course, that we must continue to work on regular training and the financing of school sport, that is true. And there is one question that may be of concern: we have been in times of crisis, there have been cuts in sports, that is obvious. In the outlaws and in the Basque Government, the sports sector and the Sports Directorate of these institutions have been the ones who have suffered most brutal cuts, and logically that must be recomposed. But, let's say again, it's a matter of work right now. It is not a question of changing the model, because that is what you intend. That will be discussed in the law, and of course we in that law will maintain the model, but we will refine some of the issues that you have said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u86	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Together, Poedemus. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u87	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Today we are discussing a theme, school sport, which, like so many other areas of the social and educational sphere, must be adapted to the new times and must be rethought from new parameters. And it is that, despite the fact that the school sport occupies a non-curricular space, it holds a high educational and educational potential. This is why the relationship between curricular and extracurricular activities is particularly relevant. It is up to both of them and their interrelationship that the centre fulfils its mission, which is nothing other than the personal and social development of the student. In fact, it can now be said that there is more school outside of it than inside. In this sense, school sport emerges as an irrevocable value, in the face of an educational system that has invested and deployed great efforts for an education that prioritizes the specialized and applied technical knowledge, beyond that that knowledge rests on people that are humanly solid, enriching and enriched by an integral formation, to which the school sport is not alien. As various researchers and researchers from the Institute of Leisure Studies of the University of Deusto show, at a time of profound economic crisis and also of values, school sport is one of the areas particularly suitable for training people with diverse concerns and willing to grow, not only in the professional context, but also in other aspects of life. On the other hand, there is a large specialized bibliography that reiterates the potential of sport in general, and school sport in particular, for the transmission of values. It is well known that school sport can play a decisive role in people's lives, but, above all, its impact can be crucial among children and young people. On the one hand, as far as physical, intellectual, emotional and social development is concerned, and on the other hand, the emotional footprint of sports experiences during the years of childhood and youth can be key in defining their life stories, as well as in the presence or absence of sports practice in such careers. We do not say this, but the people who are experts in the study of this subject. There are a number of specialized opinions that abound in the benefits of school sports practice as a source of health, integration, cooperation and overcoming. However, it is also becoming increasingly apparent that if this school practice is misguided, it can generate attitudes and behaviors whose personal experience is socially marked by inequality, violence, exclusion or poorly understood rivalry. Hence the enormous importance of significant actors and social actors, as depending on the orientation they give to school sports practice can result in consequences of very different value and meaning. In this context, it is important to work on sport from an educational perspective, in which, in addition to teaching sports techniques and tactics, basic children and young people are also endowed with values. It is true that during the last decades school sport has had institutional support, which has involved the implementation of numerous programmes and the offer of a rich panorama of alternatives in line with the different preferences and interests of the school community. However, the recognition of these advances is not an obstacle to denying that school sport today faces issues that are likely to improve, and new challenges that arise under the difficult economic, social and political circumstances that we continue to experience. In this sense, since the phenomenon is a complex phenomenon, with different implications, the school sport requires a holistic analysis, capable of addressing it not only from the inescapable watchmanship of education, but from other parameters that enrich it and discover new nuances that can contribute to the improvement. According to the study "Contributions to the model of school sport in the historical territory of Bizkaia", developed by the Institute of Leisure Studies in April 2014, almost four years ago (i.e. in another context), two challenges were posed, challenges linked to the territory of Bizkaia but easily extrapolable to the rest of the community: one, positioning school sport as a quality educational reference, and two, optimizing the potential of agents and agents involved in school sport programs. In order to meet these challenges, ten objectives were suggested: to develop a strategic school sport plan that would spell out the model of school sport to be promoted, as well as the main challenges to be addressed in the coming years; to initiate, in coordination with the agents and sports agents involved, a process of reviewing the supply of school sport for optimisation; to continue to promote participation in school sport by the school population; to enhance the experiential and human dimension of school sport to promote its contribution to the personal and social development of the entire school population; to establish mechanisms for the assessment and continuous improvement of school sport; to create or re-activate necessary structures at the different administrative levels to make possible the cooperation and joint work between the various actors involved; to promote strategies and dynamics necessary to promote coordination between actors; to take the necessary measures to exercise leadership and coordination from the Member States; to adapt the training level and to facilitate the social recognition of the role of actors and actors involved in school sport, and to improve the social image of school sport in Basque citizenship, to make known their contributions to the entire population and economic development. Therefore, the amendment we proposed to the initiative presented by Euskal Herria Bildu was simple and plainly to urge the Basque Government to draw up within six months, and with the participation of the educational community and agents directly involved in school sport, a study with the aim of having an updated diagnosis of school sport in Basque. If we are talking about adapting school sport to new educational times, with the aim of taking action, it is necessary to have up-to-date information to ensure that these actions respond adequately to reality. In this sense, from Elkarrekin We believe that the fundamental challenge is to conceptually rethink school sport from new parameters, and rethink how, to make school sport a real factor in human development through the humanization of practice, social actors and the system as a whole. One of the most repeated criticisms of school sport for decades is the supposed distance that separates in many cases the ideological framework and conceptual budgets that support the official understanding and definition of school sport from its practice. This gap between conception and reality is seen as one of the most pressing problems of school sport, and the origin of much of the difficulties in this area. Moreover, experts in the field suggest that perhaps the understanding and appropriation of the concept of school sport does not lead to identical interpretations or meanings among the different agents of school sport. As we have said before, it is becoming increasingly evident that if school sports practice is poorly oriented, it can generate attitudes, behaviors and experiences, both personally and socially, unwelcome, marked by physical or verbal violence, discrimination and poorly understood rivalry. Hence the enormous importance of the training of the significant social agents protagonists of the school sport, because depending on the orientation that they give to the sport practice can derive from it returns of very different value and meaning. Such misadjustment results in the scientific community in a well-known controversy that faces two models of school sport: the competitive versus the participatory, depending on the orientation that is prioritized in sports activities, either towards the result or towards participation. Underlying this dialectic is a strongly rooted discourse, which to some extent labels ways of doing and places the agents who represent them in a continuum of positive or negative value, in which the competitive model represents the negative and the participatory side the positive. But the underlying problem of school sport is not exhausted in the opposition of a participatory versus competitive model, nor in the decision about which agent should have more weight in the intervention in school sport. Firstly, because participation-competition opposition does not do justice to the nature and the real possibilities of school sports practice. Participation and competition are not antonymous words, because, well focused, the second perfectly can be part of the first. In fact, turning us into the first option, into participation, should not necessarily imply emptying the sport of its competitive nature, although it may vary in this case the subject or object with which it competes (with oneself, with the environment, etc.). Likewise, assuming that orientation to participation implies obviating the essence of sport, associating it with playful-sporting expressions characterized by the lack of effort, dedication and search for skills improvement, denotes a reductionist view of the sporting phenomenon and also of leisure. Secondly, because it is important to remember the central role of school sport in development, since the educational community is a preferred reference framework for sport participation. In short, this Government has a responsibility to adapt school sport to new educational times. That is why we support Euskal Herria Bildu's initiative and contribute to the debate by stressing the importance of this rethinking is linked to the importance of the contributions of school sport to the satisfaction, well-being and quality of life of the school community and its educational potential. In other words, we propose that the approach of school sport transcends its educational value to link it to human development, as pointed out by international reports such as that of UNESCO. As you can see, we do not take this model change out of the gossip, but it is a need of the sector itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u89	Thank you, President. Well, this is an issue that has been discussed in some ways already in the Committee on Culture, Euskera and Sports. On 29 November, the Councillor for Culture appeared to explain the level of compliance with Decree 125/2008 of 1 July 2008 on School Sport, and a non-law proposal on the standardization of regular school sport training was discussed this same week in committee. Today's debate focuses on a very specific aspect: to place or fit this 2008 decree on School Sport, in the educational sphere. And the truth is that this decree emanates from Law 14/1998 of 11 July of the Basque Country Sport, in its fifth title, which deals with one of the engines of the entire sports system, school sport. As we know, the bill on access to and exercise of sports professions in the Basque Country is under way. We know that work is under way and that this new law has been put in place which will answer many of the questions, such as the regular training of school sports. But not only will the Sports Professions Bill be able to respond, but we must also take into account what we hope will soon come, the new Basque Sports Act, because both fit within that framework. And this is something that is not our competence, it is not the competence of the Department of Education, but currently of the Councillor of Culture and Linguistic Policy. But it obviously affects Education, because it is a fundamental part of school sport and the education system. What concerns us is to work on the educational pact, the adaptation of school sport in the field of education. This is where our competences come in and where we must face up to the objectives, and develop them in the light of the new law on sport, which will clarify how school sports should also be conducted. This is where political forces should have a consensus, both in developing school sport in the educational pact and in the draft law on sports professions, and in the new law on sport in the Basque Country. In all of them, school sport must be approached with a completely different conception. Because Decree 125/2008 states that sport must play a transcendental role for the comprehensive education of schoolchildren, for the harmonious development of their personality and for the achievement of physical conditions and training that enable the continued practice of sport in later ages. In its first article, it is considered a school sport that sports activity practiced by schoolchildren during non-learning hours. If we want to adapt school sport to the educational sphere, we will have to work on that premise. The Ararteko reports, in the general recommendation of Ararteko 2/2016 of 16 February, set out and set out the values that must be guaranteed by the school sport, both educational and people's training. It starts from a concept of sport that goes, of course, far beyond competition sport. It focuses on new training in values of Basque society, which will influence both the point of view of equality and the point of view of integration and social cohesion, as well as the improvement of public health. The main thing is to ensure that school sport is geared towards the comprehensive education of boys and girls, ensuring their access and participation on an equal basis, and apart from stereotypes and roles based on sex, place of residence, economic resources, social or geographical origin, ethnicity, language or any other condition that may impair the equality of minors. The exercise of physical activity and what it implies must be equal to the same level. And administrations must be aware of their obligations and ensure the principles governing sport that children and girls practice within their respective spheres of competence. School sport in the field of education must be directed towards education in values, to complete the educational development of the child who practises it, meeting the needs of each person. It should not become competition or rivalry, but rather capacity-building, the development of respect and equality, tolerance and companionship, promoting social cohesion. Because school sport also helps children to prevent many subjects, such as obesity, referred to by Mrs Ubera. A plan to combat obesity had been drawn up by the Basque Government; it was planned to implement that prevention plan, which was one of the initiatives to be carried out. I wouldn't take it away from him by simply giving him a propaganda mark. It is important that this is also reflected in other aspects of education. But it is clear that in the educational sphere sport should not be considered as a regulated and reserved physical activity for a few; it must be a means to educate and train young people through the movement. We have tabled an amendment by the Socialist Group and the People's Party, which states that school sport is an element of health and social integration and must be the place for the development of equal opportunities over gender, sexual orientation, place of residence, economic resources, social and geographical origin, ethnicity and language and any other condition that could undermine the effective equality of minors, and urges the Basque Government, in collaboration with the rest of the institutions, policies and measures for the defence and development of children and girls, to continue to exercise sport within their personal development. Text very similar to the first point you present. The Parliament, in the light of the decree to which we referred, 125/2008, on School Sport, already urges the Basque Government to bring together and coordinate school sport, as an institutional body composed of the sports directors of the outlying bodies of the historical territories and of the Basque Government, and to take steps to ensure, inter alia, that it is involved in the leadership of the planning, monitoring and development of school sport in educational institutions, working on a permanent basis for the adaptation of this sport to new times. And in line with the Ararteko recommendation to which we referred, on the need for sport practiced in pre-school sports to be based on educational and non-competitive values, Parliament urges the Basque Government, in its relations in the field of education and sport with the municipalities of the Basque Country, to focus on ensuring that sports activities organized for boys and girls, and in particular at those previous ages, as stated by the Ararteko, to those included in the school sports programme, are based on educational, participatory and non-competitive criteria. Finally, the Basque Government is urged to take into account all stages in promoting a model of the quality of play, physical activity and sport of the school period, seeking spaces for collaboration and consensus with the rest of the institutions, in order to continue working on regular training and funding of school sport, paying particular attention to collaboration for the improvement of policies for the effective equality of women and men. I do not know whether the solution to this problem is what Mrs Ubera says, to demand competence for Education in this matter, because this discussion probably has much to do with this very complex institutional framework that we have in Euskadi and which gives rise to this series of dysfunctions. But, in any case, I do not want to end without turning over a number of considerations on what the Basque Socialists think about this. And it seems to us that the program is not just a sports program, the school sports program. It is not just a sports programme that takes place at school age, but it is obviously a programme with a clear pedagogical orientation. And here they are educated in values, or they must be educated, and they must be endowed with specific skills and skills that they can acquire through sport. They can acquire psychomotor, social and personal skills. And for that, and we want to demand it here, there is a need for greater involvement of the Department of Education of the Basque Government. Because it seems to us that there are three aspects in which the role of the Department of Education is crucial. The first is the elimination of the gender gap, which exists in sports practice. The second is the elimination of the socio-economic gap. And the third is the elimination of inequality in the access or practice of those boys or girls who can be discriminated against or who have disability problems, which can also be given the case. And in order for this program to be inclusive and fair, it is necessary for Education to be truly committed to school sport, to equip it with the same protection systems that have a classroom in regulated education. I want to say that I sincerely regret that it has not been possible to reach agreement on such a sensitive issue, but I am sure – and of course that will be the Socialist Party's commitment – that in the near future this consensus will be possible and school sport will have its proper place within the Department of Education as well.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u90	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians. Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u91	Thank you, Mr. President. As a matter of fact, Mrs. Ubera, the end of your interference has made us a point of grace: Since you have not achieved what you wish to achieve in your middle course, all the value given by school sports, all the work that has been done for 25 years, all the volunteers who are there have done nothing. It's all wrong, nothing's right. For the last time we've had a certain number of discussions and scenes about school sports, and it's already known which of us have our position in all this. We had the chief of the Zulus and Mr. Arredndos recently discussed this subject in the legislature, and about the Decreetus 2008, especially when they gave it a positive rating. And I think that in that show they summed up the course, how we are now, what the context is and where it is, especially when you're looking at it. And they explained it clearly, and even before me you have shown that it is based on the Code of Sports of 98 and that in its 5th title there is mention of school sports sports sports. This sporting process is a matter of funds looking at the integrated education of schoolboys, watching their personality developed in an harmonious manner, and at the age to come-and the physical and preparation condition in which they will be able to maintain a continuous sport. I think that's what EH Collect means. But it must also be mentioned that in the Law of Sports there is a fundamental sport, and above all a school sports sport, and a taste for public authority; but every one must do it within the limits of his own jurisdiction, as you say, that every one ought to respect his part. And that paper of common organizations is the foundation and principle of the schools to fix the rules and competitions of sports discipline. And organs in historical areas are part of the development of the rules in the Basque School and cooperation with the City Administration. Therefore, in that half-way proposition which you have proposed, we did not share with you at the second point, you abandon the whole structure of the school sports, and give the Board of Education such a right to develop and regulate the development and regulating rights of education, you tell them to hold on to them and to participate in it. Yes, yes. I'll literally read it. Again, you say at first, 'by respecting the rights of each generation'; Because "... let him ask for the hand of the school sports for the Board of Education, and at the same time co-ordinately and consistently co-ordinately with the forums and parent unions." No, he's the leader, he's the best fortune ever. And education, schools, must be there, and they must become co-ordinated and developed. But the leadership, that of the program development, is that of the foru-abast, because that's the way it appears in the decree. It is plain, therefore, that the Euscal Committee of Schools has a very important importance in all this matter, because the general principles defined, features, and targets will be respected; and that this homogenity of the school-like pattern which is useful to all the members of the Renaissance, and at the same time the organ which seeks for compatibility with the patterns adapted to each historical region, will be this committee. And in this committee, both the directors of sports and the directors of the three historic organs and the directors of the Euskic Acadectic Activity and the sportsmen and the sportsmen of the Euskalists, can be done either by the President's idea or by the other members of the community, where they are called to be shared in technical discussions, to schools, to municipal administrations, and to all the other experts. In this committee, too, it is determined that many important themes of homogeneization of pattern, for the technical characteristics of the three sports courts which prescribes the decree, are sufficient to partake of the established activities and fashions, the criteria which guarantee the quality of the schools' structure and operators, and to accommodate others. We believe, therefore, that we are asking him for this medium we have signed, and that we have obtained a middle course which answers the structure we have here, because we ask this committee to continue co-ordinately and to take measures, to participate in the continuation and development of the school sports, in order to participate in the leadership, but always in respect of the jurisdiction of the fortitudes. The editor of the Eusko and the Sports Department of Fascic Academic Activity and the EAEsstal Act, is determined to renew the currently established sports Act, and to do so has opened the wide substitution of the EAE thinking process between the sports institutions and the agents of Eucharists. And besides that, one of the nine working groups that have been created for reflection has been directed to the school-player and you have mentioned that. Therefore, I would say that the Basque Government in that sense is indeed rethinking, as Mrs García said, it is rethinking the whole model, how it has worked so far, and it is also counting on the respective Eagileak to address this whole issue and to be able to effect the change of this law in a more efficient way and that we can all feel more comfortable. When we were together, the chief physician advanced to us several consequences in the performance, as well as that these agents, among the municipal and aldudias, require that this union should be augmented, especially that the conception of the school sports must be stylistic and inclusive, an interesting tool for increasing the use of the Euscise, and that it is also interesting to insert the genus into its point of view.... And, Mrs. Ubera, with all those basics you're talking about, with all those values in the college itself, we agree, but I don't think you can throw away anything that's not done or obstructs her. When a process of reflection is made and a new decree is conducted in a process of reflection that is more than 100 operators, I think it's too much to say at the moment there are obstacles. And I think at the moment he's making up his mind to improve the rules of the fun. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Guruga. Passing on the day of the answers, representative of the EH Collectors. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u93	I thought this was going to be a very simple matter. But from the former legislation we have made an immense attempt to improve the constitution, and also to conform to the legislation, to fulfil the established legislation, and there has been no means of doing so. I don't know if there's a problem at the Board of Education or the Sports Department, but it's none of my business. The trouble is, the obstacles. Look, we don't plan model change, no. We don't plan a pattern change. What we plan is to keep what's in force. The observance of what is in force may perhaps be supposed to change the standard of Bacia and Aran, because the only one who observes the law is Gipulia. The one filling up the 125/2008 Decree is the one filling the Sports Act. Then we have three countries; each country has a pattern, and it is not to form the characters of each country, but each country has a pattern. Is that the pattern we want? Maybe you do, we don't. And what we plan is to keep what is in force, to obey and to improve the law. Then on November 24th, this government arranges a few activities. The title of these acts: 'School style. Thoughts and proposals." A request, from the agents of all fields, from the fields of construction, from the sports fields... ), it was the same request. You know the demands and the consequences better than I do. The question is, do you agree with that? And if you agree, do it! Fill! That's all. If not, why do we get involved in the agencies, do we tide them into such situations? Look, we've had legal and precursor regulations in sport, pioneers, but we haven't done it. There, in the Law of Sports, in Title V, Article 56, you have the role of schools to be. That's what we're asking and what education has to do with it. And not just the Law of Sports. If we go to some of the laws of education, it's also obvious. We've been pioneers, precursors. You should take that as something positive. Why doesn't it fit? I don't understand what's wrong with that. Are there corporate interests? What's the problem? Is that a problem? Is that a problem? I don't know, I don't know what it is. What we want is to put the school in the epicre. That's right, put the school sports in the frame. Then the feds will have clubs to finish the area. If this foundation is well cultivated, clubs and religious reasons will have a tremendous basis for working in their territory. We don't even understand the difficulties there are in the educational educational educational development of schools. We don't understand it either from a management view or from a economic view or socially. We don't understand. We don't understand, for instance, how a few hours from the Education Department are not adapted to co-ordination, because it has to be accepted by the Aldunciations. All right! But the program, who's going to have to do the programs? We'll have to work together, where the schools will have to say, won't they? Then we don't understand what the problem is for planning in a simple manner in the frame of education. The more access we have since our age, the more physical activities, the more sporting, the more we can promote healthy habits, the more we can choose to choose. And we'll have more options for the descendants. And the age level should also be lowered. We see a lot of reasons, we see data, we see the improvement of the course of years, the improvement of the improvements. That's what we're asking for. You don't say together in the neighborhood, "Big común"? Here we go. In the neighborhood, in the company, "B two's común," we're ready for that. But someone will have to explain to me, in order to set up obstacles, to prevent them from going further on, what interests they are in the background. But this way, this government might think of undoing sports manager, because now it's done by alien sports policies and other butterflies. This sport manager paints nothing or he doesn't want to paint anything. I don't know what the problem is, even if it's manual. He's got gloves, but then he doesn't fill his gloves, so why do we need a sports director? Or maybe I'm addictive and the problem is in education. But don't worry, then we'll all say that physical activity is important, that sport is important, that it's important. What for? What's the big deal? Then when the contests and winnings are to make the winners a trophy, just to photograph them, that's what's important? But that has a limit too. He can't live on the thrones forever. And to put the trophy in order to appear in the photograph, we have to perform basic sporting.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Popular. Mr. Barrio has the word. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u95	Yes, thank you very much, Madam President. With your permission, from the seat. Mrs Ubera, we have regulations and we have good regulations. I mean, you don't have to change it. Okay, all right. Their implementation needs to be improved, okay. But what you don't have to do... That is to say, you have said that there is a regulation, the fifth title of the Sports Act of 98, that it must be applied better. Well, that's what we agree on. But then why is your initiative a model changer? That is what you asked us, to regain competences, that is, to disarm one of the competences, one of the capacities or political actions that are now carried out by the outlaws. Well, we don't want that. That's the point. Indeed, if you speak of improving, if you speak of fixing imbalances that may exist between the three historical territories, indeed. And it will also be the responsibility of these institutions and the coordination that the Basque Government can carry. But what is very clear and what has become very clear in this debate, regardless of whether we vote differently, is that the regulatory model is correct. So, in that sense, what we don't want is for the law not to be enforced. If the regulatory model is correct... What you wanted with your initial proposal was for the law not to be enforced. In that sense, some have spoken here today that we have a complex institutional framework... No, we have our institutional framework. And of course the fact that the school sport can be programmed by the outlaws is no dysfunction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u96	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Together, Podemos, Mrs. García must not speak. Mr. Pastor, the Basque Socialist mustn't speak a word. Eubertarians. Madam, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. What's the problem? The problem is, you don't respect the jurisdictions of the forums. That's the main problem. You don't want to respect the nature of this town. And I said at first, that we've discussed several of the initiatives around the sport, you've introduced these enterprises, you've brought them here, and I don't think it'll be a problem whether these enterprises go out or not as you please. I think it's not just our responsibility. To reach a medium between us, I think it is by reason of the conversation between us all. And you know that second point is unacceptable. The second point is to accept that you don't do what the forums do today. And I don't think that's what we're supposed to do. And honestly, I can join you in the gym model, because I also think it could be the modelest. But for that I think that we have the Basque Committee of the School Sports, all those distinctions between the forum and that this committee is there to balance for homogeneization. And, on the other hand, I suppose we shall not be members of the legislature if we are to do the duty of the Supreme Assembly, and to keep ourselves from carrying forward plans and projects suitable to the organs of every historical Country. And we don't have any trouble getting schools into the schedule and doing that in the company, even with the local collectors, and so we've explained in our middle-class way that we don't have any trouble getting the schools to go through all those plans together and with the fun. I really don't know how you don't realize that what you're asking for is the change of a whole pattern, and I don't think it'll be possible to bring a change of that pattern again and again, by recommenceding and reascing occurrences, that it's a matter beyond all the other propositions I think, and that at this moment a new law is going to run through all this and that, by means of other places and places, and not the likes. That's why I think that your chief wish is to make a polemics and noise rather than to come to the agreements at this moment. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Hugueg. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH Collect and the middle-direction that Podemos signed together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 70; the 10ths, 25; the opposites, 45; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u99	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we'll vote for the Esquila Populars, Basque Sociists, and Eucabertarians, the middle-line correction that has been signed by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 70; 45; the opponents, 25; the whites, 0; abstentions, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u100	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. Five point in theme list: "The other proposition of Podemos as a parlamentary team together, concerning machiistic violence and the Security Department. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Ms. Arana, the representative of Podemus together, has the word in her presence and defence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u101	Good noon, everyone. The head of the table, members of the legislature. We are at the fifth and final point of the last ordinary plenary of 2017, and we really welcome the fact that we are closing the year with this initiative and this agreement, an agreement that is in addition to so many others that we have managed to achieve in order to advance the equality and eradication of the Machist violence. From Elkarrekin We can assume from the beginning the commitment and the challenge of promoting a quantitative and qualitative change in equality policies. We are convinced that we live in a time when it is time to make a leap, and this year it has been filled with signs that indicate it to us. From 2017 we have to take good note of the constant and very significant increase in the number of complaints, also of the movement against sexual harassment, of the "I believe you", of the "Juana is in my house", of the "Nik sinesten difut", of the crowd mobilizations. We have to take good note of all these milestones that are calling for a change in equality policies, something very necessary, knowing that, even if it is not simple, it is possible. Euskadi aspires to the real equality of women and men, aspires to live in a society free of sexist violence, and proves this over and over again. It is a demand of Basque society as a whole, a society with an effervescent feminist movement, persistent, active, vindictive and always propositive, to which – I repeat – we must bear in mind, because it is justice for all women, it is justice for half of Basque society; for girls, adolescents, young people, adults and older people than day-to-day, with minimum daily or organized gestures, it contributes to living better, to democratic coexistence, to the sustainability of the life of all, to the construction of a more equal, more democratic, more solidarity, more inclusive and more just society. This Parliament has to be a case of resonance of society's demands. This is how we closed this year, and we will work in 2018 to be back on track to meet the demands of citizens in general, and of half of the Basque population in particular. At this time we have taken control and follow-up, we have promoted various initiatives, and we have supported and accompanied others, all in order to carry forward the commitment we have made. We have had intense debates, and we have had small and deep disagreements, and we will continue to have them, but today I want to highlight all the agreements and progress that we have been able to push forward, with constant and persistent work. In the various committees, presentations, plenary sessions, with proposals that have given us the opportunity to visualize the policies of equality and the eradication of violence in relation to education, security, justice, GIR, work, health, employment, enterprise, self-government, taxation, legislation, industry..., the agenda of equality is the agenda of all and we will continue to work for it to be installed in a central place of the daily work of this Parliament and of the Basque Government in a definitive way and not to back down. Having said that, I am going to focus on the initiative we are being called upon today, concerning information and machist violence. In the justification of the proposal we recalled that on 23 February Parliament approved and agreed to include in the legislative timetable the drafting of the law for the eradication of violence against women, with the commitment to prioritise the processing prior to its referral to the Basque Parliament. Five days later, the Governing Council approved the legislative programme of the 11th Legislature, a working document that guides the legislative action of the Basque Government over the next four years. The proposed draft laws included, textually, the proposed law for the eradication of violence against women. In this context, and with a process for the elaboration of a new open regulation, through this initiative we have wanted to highlight the importance of having up-to-date, reliable and comparable information to design and monitor and evaluate public policies. Measuring different forms of violence is a challenge for the design and implementation of public policies. Reliable and comparable data are needed to guide legislative and policy reforms towards an increasingly adjusted proposal, as well as to monitor and assess the impacts of these. To measure violence, states have two main tools: the first, surveys, which measure the incidence and prevalence of violence; the second is the administrative records of public services. In Euskadi the entire public administration works with administrative records. When it comes to violence, one of the most frequently consulted sources for official data on the evaluation of sexist violence is the reports and memoirs published by the Department of Safety and Security. Reviewing the crime statistics published on the website of the Ertzaintza and the Criminal Memory of the Basque Autonomous Community 2016, presented by the Department of Security at the Commission on Institutions, Security and Justice on 10 March, we find data representing manifestations of machista violence under different terms and categories: domestic abuse, habitual family abuse, sexual assault, domestic violence, gender violence, sexual freedom, injuries..., category under which cases of machista violence are being recorded in the family, as the counselor acknowledged, and this is very important not to happen. We all know that Emakunde also publishes reports. The analysis and interpretation of statistical data work on the basis of information provided by the Department of Safety and Security, and statistics on what they call "lethal victims of violence against women" can be found on the Institute's website. The data refer only to women victims of couples or ex-partners, so we are left out of the analysis those women who have been murdered by strangers or relatives, or those who by law are not recognized by law as victims of gender-based violence. A very large number of cases of macho violence remain outside the analysis, and, ladies and gentlemen, what is not counted does not count. Thus, if we go to other sources, such as the website of the feminicide.net initiative, we find that the official data and those generated from civil society have significant differences. The latter work with a much more global view, recognizing the multiple forms of macho violence suffered by women, and thus provide us with much closer information to a reality of this structural and systematic violation of our rights. In recent decades, the terminology linked to this phenomenon of violence against women has also proliferated and spread heterogeneously. Each concept represents different interpretative frameworks, explicit causes and scopes for understanding and addressing this problem. In this way, we now have fragmented data that respond to visions and interpretations that in some cases even overlap or contradict each other. We also detected a possible underreporting of situations. As I have already mentioned when the Department of Security mentioned the work, the adviser herself acknowledged that there are reports of episodes of macho violence that are diluted under the category of "injuries", and if we go to the data against sexual freedom we will find that only those that have been perpetrated by perpetrators outside the family sphere are published. This dispersion of data and possible under-record represents a difficulty in obtaining a much more global view and a dimension much closer to the reality of the phenomenon of Machist violence. We are invisible to the set of interrelated violence and different forms of feminicide. We cannot analyse the continuum of violence and, therefore, we can hardly design, monitor and evaluate the impact of policies in an integrated and integrated manner. If we have a partial and fragmented view of reality, we will also push for partial and fragmented policies, and this must be changed. These are some brushstrokes of why we need to rethink this collection and production of data from the public administration, and why we are presenting this initiative. Therefore, from Elkarrekin we can bring this proposal, aimed at correcting this deficit, in order to have statistics that represent more and better the reality; that these are more in line with the proposals and recommendations of conventions, treaties, protocols and international committees of recent years; that they are aligned with interpretative frameworks and paradigms of analysis in consolidation in the field of criminology. To this end, we believe that it is urgent to redesign the processing of data, in order to obtain relevant statistics. We are convinced that this initiative is another step forward in this time of change that has touched us, and that we must face up to it responsibly. I reiterate that we are very satisfied. Thank you all for your efforts, Eta eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Passing the crews who were running the corrections, representing the Basque Potion Group. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. Indeed, it is true that the various institutions have been working on equality policies and have been working on measures that correct, prevent and punish violence against women, but it is true that we have to reflect, and I will give two examples of two testimonies. One, that of a person who appeared in commission, a victim of psychological violence, and who said that if she had to report again, she would not. And that can't be consented to. In the same way that we cannot afford letters like that of Ana Orantes' daughter, who writes to her mother saying, "We have made no progress." It is true that it is not true that we have made no progress, but that a victim (a survivor, as she calls herself) has that feeling to make us reflect that we have to implement all our policies and redesign them. Because, as the proposal says, and today Mrs Arana has reiterated it, the draft law for the eradication of violence against women is part of the legislative programme of this Government, and we believe that this law is important. And that is why we called for it to be sent back as soon as possible, because it will strengthen the actions that are already being carried out from all political, social and institutional spheres. That – he said – it was clear that many things have been done, actions have been taken, are being carried out from multiple institutions. And, to say one in Euskadi, we can highlight the second interinstitutional agreement for improving care for women victims of domestic abuse and sexual violence, an agreement that aims to coordinate between the institutions involved in care for victims of domestic abuse and sexual assault, so that they are guaranteed comprehensive health, police, judicial and social protection. It should also be noted that, with an important institutional, political and social consensus, the State Pact against Gender Violence was adopted a month ago. On the basis of expert presentations, victims of gender-based violence and civil society organizations, a series of measures were adopted that were dialogued and negotiated by all political groups of the subcommission and covered a wide range of actions, in the judicial, educational and social services fields, to achieve the eradication of ill-treatment. A pact with financial support of EUR 1 billion, of which 200 has been allocated in the 2018 Budgets, in the General Budgets of the State, which are not approved, but, in the event that they do not go forward, a decree would be made allowing this amount to be released. And the State pact also talks about data collection, and the importance of obtaining and providing detailed statistical data and sequences with the periodicity that is established, where appropriate, and encouraging the incorporation of indicators, on the general part, as well as specific indicators, for example, to know the number of young children who have been victims, or of persons with functional diversity who have been victims of such behaviour. It is also intended, for example, to ask the General Council of the Judiciary for a specific unit for the evaluation of data from courts of violence against women. And, as Mrs Arana has also pointed out, this measurement of the different forms of violence against women is necessary, the development and implementation of public policies aimed at preventing and responding to these women victims is essential, but in order to achieve this, it is necessary to have data, and, as she said, with all the data. With data to show where to direct the legislative and executive measures of Governments, if those that have already been achieved are adequate, and what the consequences of these measures have been. That is why in this first point, of this diagnostic study, we have come to this compromise amendment, which we are going to support in its three points, because, as I said, that first point, of carrying out this diagnostic study with a gender perspective from a feminist interpretative framework, through this group that already exists, which depends on the interinstitutional agreement of Eudel, therefore, seems appropriate to us. Because data collection is really not easy. Firstly, because the very definition of the term violence against women must be a term common to all, because the terminology we all use must be the same, and this must include all forms of violence against women. And that is why we should start with a definition of violence against women. I have started, for example, from the documents prepared by Emakunde, which defines as violence against women the one that is structural violence, which manifests itself in all the contexts of women's lives (school, work, social, political, family), using men who exercise it from psychological, sexual, physical or moral suffering, and using physical, verbal, gestural, electronic or other means. But these concepts are true that they are evolving, and therefore the indicators of sexist violence so well must be accompanied by that evolution. For example, in the State Covenant against Gender Violence, the definition of violence is broadened: it is no longer considered only violence by couples or ex-partners, but all types of violence against women included in the Istanbul Convention. In addition to physical, psychological and sexual abuse, rape, female genital mutilation, forced marriage, sexual harassment and gender-based harassment, and abortion and forced sterilization are included. Therefore, as I said, and it has also been said by Mrs Arana, the concept we are handling is a concept that is evolving, a different concept, and the indicators need to be modified. That second point, therefore, in that compromise amendment that has been reached, to update that system of indicators in line with those new definitions that we are making, also seems to us to be very appropriate, and we will therefore also support it. Emakunde herself in her documents emphasizes the difficulty of recording this data. In its report, it provides relevant data for the year 2016 and the first half of 2017, provided by the Ertzaintza Studies and Analysis Division, which reports on the number of cases of violence against women officially registered. And it is good to say this data, because, as was said, the data must be put on the table: in 2016, a total of 3,774 women were recorded as victims of violence in our community; of them, 2,797 women were assaulted by their partner or ex-partner, another 746 were victims of violence by some other man in their family, and 231 more women suffered sexual violence outside the family sphere. And the data for the first half of 2017 show that the number of violence has increased by almost 6%. And also the General Council of the Judiciary says that in the third quarter there have been an increase of 29, almost 30%, the complaints being their total number of 1,400. Emakunde, noting that the source I have just named is one of the most important to quantify this violence against women, also points out that these data reflect only part of the problem of violence against women, as they do not capture the reality of those women who have not approached institutions and therefore do not appear in the records. Women who have not reported, or who face violence by means other than institutional means, either through the support of women's associations, through the support of their own families, etc. For this reason, Emakunde herself often completes the vision on the current landscape by preparing another supplementary report to this one, which is published at the end of the year and which she does is to collect data from other secondary sources, as has been said here: surveys, research, statistics, etc. For this reason, it seems appropriate that we, as an institution, collect all the data, all the data collected by all the institutions; that this is systematized and that it allows us to have a complete picture of all the cases that occur in our autonomous community of violence against women, because in that way and with that information we can implement the policies that, as I say, I think it is necessary to implement, so that there is no woman who says "It is not worth reporting" and so that in the future no surviving person of this kind of violence says "Things remain the same". With this we will support the amendment that has been agreed. Thank you very much. And since it is, in fact, the last full of control, I want to wish everyone and everyone a happy Christmas and a happy year 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u104	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mrs. Houseland, representative of EH Collect, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u105	Yes, thank you. Good noon, everyone. At first I agree with that rating Mrs. Arana made. It is true that the last plenois of the year is content with this subject, and moreover with this arrangement, to put an end to it thus, and even in this respect there is some joy. i I can't help talking to you today, but I can't help it. I'd like to begin with the border, in mind of the performance that Gab here made in the parliament, in order to present to us the Euskata y Navarra 2010-2015 research, where several tables of data were added to us. This study concentrated principally on the opening of the cases of the murdered women and themselves in the South Basque Country, and in this case in the Esquiforme of the 3rd murdered women and compared this with the data of 12 women and the data of the 16 murdered souls of the Spanish Government to the desktop. And that's where we could see that we're sitting on the table with different sources of data. And in this case, almost a third, rose two-thirds, as we met with the number of the assassins. They confessed, or expressed in this doctrine of theirs, that at the determination of or naming, 53% of them, 16 cases, they named them as "finicitio intimidite"; In addition to this, they committed the murder of two women who committed prostitution and ended it with the case of an inordinate femininity. And these facts put this discussion on the table somehow: how when we use different indifferentors, when we take different resolutions to calm them, we find opposite facts. In the Spanish government, the US government only counts for women killed by couples or ex-girlfriends. We see that the Empire does a little more, and that in the case of the femininity, the Feminicitius, who worked together with the Gabe, placed it almost triple. If we take the data this year too, and I think it's important to call it today, the Emenium puts on the table the case of Ana, murdered at Miranda de Ebron on the third of September, and on September 28th the case of Noëllia Noës, who were murdered at Sestaon. Two cases that take account this year. The feminist movement, however, involves also the case of the late Elviera López, who died in Portugal. And I think the necessity of naming now because we often say that he who has the name has its being, and I believe that the existence of these women, and the appearance of violence, is important. This is why we worked on this second point: To compare these contradictions which arise in some degree, or at least with a purpose to determine and harmonize those which are opposed to us. As the laws will be determined, and this process, which we have in hand in this case, being the object of the party's agreement in Istanbul, will, in so many steps and different cases, be directed to the desktop, this too was an important need for the surface of the data, and therefore the need of that second point. And the study I was talking about at first, which Feminidius referred to, I think it is essential to consider the view they have. We can't use data in an airal way, because that's how teaching and analysis take away our chances. And precisely when we're asking for data, when we're asking for investigations, it's not just that they stay there, but because there's a series of powerful processes that can be called a direction to push. Because in this communication and information they can contribute to a better diagnosis of the present situation. And especially in the niceties of prevention, because they will teach us how to behave or teach us how to behave. If we go blind, we'll keep doing politics now. But with these new indicators, how we want to cultivate these new phenomena and how we want to attack them, and I use the word "associate" because this situation requires it, as well as police, and as many other departments of society. Then our model of security, among other things, will be indispensable to actions and examples of this kind. The statistics have been mentioned, and I myself have been able to examine the figures of data in this report mentioned, and I believe it was interesting in this case that they still take data from this second interinstantiational agreement in themselves, but that they were excluded from it, and that all those who have suffered different kinds of violence continue to confirm it. We said: "He who has the name has its being," and I think I should like to make two remarks on the way to the end: partly because these diagnosiss and, as I said before, may be instruments of formation and of consciousness. Here I ask a question, which is not clear (they themselves have different doubts about it); What is the meaning of a case up today or upcoming data? That we have more cases, or that we have more consciousness and power, and consequently that we have more power or power to accuse and raise our voice. I think, for instance, that these data and conscientious works have influence only when I feel that women are not alone, if the women lift their voices when they show us that there is a service to help them, and we see that there is still a great deal to be done, that we have much to do in these arrangements, but at the same time we must continue to strengthen that path. And we said the other idea: because politics will give us more keys to advance and develop prevention and action. And I want to finish, by making a confession of the feminist movement, I wanted to bring a fool that has been mentioned, to end up here, he began in the social forum, the proclamation "I believe you," and in November 25 he led the feminist movement to the street, and I think that we must say yes to all those things which have not appeared to us today, but we believe them, and now that they will be there with us in these facts and in our fairs and beautiful ways. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u107	Yes, thank you, President. Today we discuss the proposed law of Elkarrekin We can refer to macho violence, and in particular it is proposed to carry out the diagnostic study with a gender perspective and to review the system of indicators of macho violence that are currently used. I would like to express the satisfaction of the Basque Socialists with the agreement reached in the compromise amendment signed between the Basque Nationalist Group, the Basque Socialist Group, Elkarrekin Podemos and the EH Bildu Group. From the beginning of the proposal, we saw the possibility of ratifying such broad, cross-cutting agreements, which are the hallmark of this legislature, and specifically in this area. We have had some bitter discussion not long ago, but we sincerely believe, and we say this with conviction, that when we talk about victims of any crime, our responsibility in discussing them is to think about them, in this case those who suffer from harassment and aggression. For the Socialists, it is very important that, from the legitimate right to dissent, they know that their institutions, also this Parliament, have them on our permanent agenda, and that we are committed to fighting their suffering. We have sufficient experience here to address issues relating to other victims, as to know that bridging differences when sharing is essential is to convey to them a message of division that does not solve their problems. So go ahead, the Socialists want to transmit once again to those women that we continue to turn not only to protect them, but to tackle the very causes of that violence. We have recently debated in this plenary on macho violence (in particular recently, in the plenary on 23 November), and duties were placed on the Basque Government for next year, so that the draft law on the eradication of violence against women would be referred as a matter of priority before the end of the first session of 2018. We have duties for next year. And in this debate we referred to numbers of cases that suffer male violence, which I am not going to repeat today, because I exposed them here recently. But it is important to continue to take steps in the fight against violence against women. For socialists it is essential to ensure equality between men and women, and that is why we have signed the State Pact against Gender Violence, which constitutes a minimum agreement and which includes more than two hundred measures for further progress in the eradication of gender-based violence, and which highlights the importance of statistics and data obtained in order to be able to work on them. The report prepared by the subcommission of the State Pact on Violence against Women at the Congress of Deputies states that since the creation of the Observatory against Domestic and Gender Violence, the General Council of the Judiciary, and the State Observatory on Violence against Women, together with the statistical records of the comprehensive monitoring system in cases of gender violence, the Ministry of the Interior, or the data of the Special Prosecutor's Office for Gender Violence, together with other monitoring systems, it has been shown that the collection of data allows us to identify previously hidden realities and evaluate the institutional response in a more reliable way. And, although these instruments do not allow us to know the causes of the anomalies in the institutional response, they do identify problems that must alert the institutions that support them, so that they can deepen the qualitative analysis that allows us to act on their consequences. However, we have to say that in this matter we do not start from scratch within our autonomous community. On 3 February 2009, the second inter-agency agreement on improving care for women victims of violence, domestic abuse and sexual violence was signed with the aim of adapting the content of the first institutional agreement of 2001 to the policy changes that had been adopted at the national level, as well as completing protocols, collaborative agreements and other legal instruments adopted. It collects the commitments made by the various signatory institutions, and protocols for intervention in the fields of health, police, judicial, social, educational and bar associations. And under this agreement, a commitment was made that each year the institutional agreement monitoring committee would draw up a monitoring and evaluation report, which would contain the actions carried out by each institution, and that the group of information systems would be set up under this second interinstitutional agreement. This group of information systems worked on minimum indicators to be collected in the above-mentioned reports. In addition, we have had the Observatory for Machist Violence against Women, which has worked on the data obtained. We also have a system of indicators on gender-based violence at the national level since 2007 to contribute to the database of the State Observatory on Violence against Women. Of course, in the view of the Basque Socialists, the indicators used for the collection of annual data must be as homogeneous as possible, in order to make it easier to compare both the data obtained in this autonomous community and the rest of the data obtained at the state level. I believe that the compromise amendment we have signed today takes a step forward. There is a mistake, because in the beginning it is not "the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government", and that is a mistake, but well, it is corrected. But the Basque Government is urged to carry out the study-diagnosis with this gender perspective, through this group of information systems included in the second inter-institutional agreement for improving the care of women victims of domestic abuse and sexual violence, on the recording of data and processing of data carried out by all actors involved in the prevention, protection and persecution of the multiple manifestations of male violence. And also update this system of sexist violence indicators managed by Emakunde, and design indicators of violence in line with the normative development of recent years, for all actors involved. And that this process be led by Emakunde, in order to have that instrument and to have a more global and permanent vision. And also implement this system and carry out this follow-up, publishing all agents involved in the prevention and protection processes at least once a year this monographic memory. I believe that using homogeneous indicators, revising the current ones, and that this revision is led by Emakunde, will also give us a clearer idea when it comes to obtaining and comparing data, which is important when it comes to assessing the measures that are deemed necessary to further progress in the field of gender-based violence. This transaction is in this direction, to review these indicators before making these annual diagnostic reports in this area, which is always positive and in line with the Istanbul Convention on the collection of statistical data. In conclusion, therefore, we would like to welcome the agreement we have signed, which the People's Party will also vote in favour of it, as it has already said. And for my part, to conclude, wish you all a happy holiday and a happy year 2018. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u108	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Mrs. Beras Long, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u109	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Chief, congressmans, all good afternoons now. As we are about to discuss the measures of the other proposition, the measurement of various violences, and the composition of this kind of violence, is, as it were, necessary, first, I think, to resist this violence, and then, unfortunately, to give a suitable answer. And in short, in order to plan and develop adequate policies from public institutions, we need information, in this and in all other matters, and this information must be trusted and as extensive as possible. I think it is the most important consequence of the lack of equality between men and women, of the violence which men exercise upon women, that violence is, I believe, a natural influence upon all the worlds of woman's life. It has been mentioned before: We know it as "genero force," though we call it many names (perhaps too much), and there is no such thing in the penal code of Spain as this, and we apply it to several other crimes, and (as you have said before me) there are some cases which, perhaps, are not properly named, and even in the presence of them, are not necessary to the measures of persons or women who have suffered it. The second interinstitutional agreement, which has also been mentioned above, covers violence against women in three areas: violence within the couple or in the field of ex-partnership, in the family environment, and then speaks of sexual violence outside these two areas. And this may also have to be reviewed, because perhaps there may be some cases that may be described as violence against women but then not being dealt with perhaps as it should be. The monitoring committee of this interinstitutional agreement decided in 2013 to set up a working group, which is known as the group of information systems, so that data collection could be unified from all those entities or agents that care for women victims of male violence, and for this reason it was also my interest to collect in the transactional the involvement of all the agents, and that it did not materialize so much in the Department of Security, although it is true that the original proposal of Elkarrekin Podemos referred to the Department of Security, and this Department of Security is part, as well as not, of the group of information systems, because I also believe that it is the main facilitator of the information that is then used. The group's objectives are also clear: to analyse and disseminate the characteristics, causes and consequences of the different manifestations of violence against women in Euskadi; to then make diagnoses that will also identify situations of such violence against women; and to then evaluate the effectiveness of resources and care services that are also put at the service of these women. Minimum indicators were agreed within that working group, which are in questionnaires available also on the Emakunde page. In 2016, data were collected for the first time in a homogeneous way, which was one of the objectives of this group, and Emakunde has already prepared a report with such data. In 2017, the Department of Security also completes the 2016 data, which will also be published shortly, and, in addition to this work that it is responsible for carrying out as a member of this group, the Department of Security, through the Directorate for Security Coordination, specifically the Division of Studies and Analysis, sends monthly, semi-annual and annually other statistical data on violence against women, and Emakunde also publishes monthly the assessment of this data. So, well, things are being done, but it is true that the agreement we have reached today aims to move forward, to improve, and I believe that, in any case, that agreement is important. It must be said that in the annual reports, not only the data of the Security Department, but many other data and other places, which are received from various other data and places, in Euskacin and State, in Europe, and in Europe, and with all of them, are composed of such ratings and reports. We believe that the Security Department does not only in answer to the demands of the Empire, but also in a more extensive manner, against women, because they are connected with the work of many other institutions, both with social services or with alterds, and with women who suffer violence, the protection and redemption they require may perhaps become more efficient. I'll end up with you all. As has been said, at the last stage of the whole of the year's gathering, so extensive an arrangement with such a gross and serious subject, and I dare say that the arrangement was so easy, that I think it would be sufficient for us all to congratulate ourselves. We've been doing things so far, but to improve, I think it's inevitable: the data is collected, the team is composed, the organization agreement has been established for a long time, and the rates and publications of the year's work are made... But you can fix that job, can you make it better? Well, of course I do, and I always say it, but if we didn't have a chance of improvement, then there wouldn't be much sense in all of us being here. In the year following, or at least in the year following, we shall have the law of law to work around him in this legislature, and although we have been excused to address him in the neighbourhood of the Security Department in the present day, I believe it is the importance and interest of all this matter, not only of the whole Government, or of all the other institutions, but of all men and women, and of what is to be said and done in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. If you have a second round, if you want. If anybody wants to... We'll just go to the vote. And what we're going to vote for is Podemos, EH Collect, the Euzialists and the Eucabertarians, the middle-class correction that has been signed by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 72; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-21.u111	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was three and fourteen o'clock in the afternoon.
