ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I have to say that the 10th and 17th points have been left for another purpose. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, the Gender of the Maals, the Uurga Euga, the parliamentary members of the group, made for the head of the Medical Department, in order to promote the use of the Basque Use of the II. About the filling level of the plan. Madam, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. The president, the chief physician, all good morning. At the beginning of this month, on December 3th, we celebrated the Basque Day. And on that day, the Euscharation was announced, the initiative that METAY started with the Top site, and the main purpose of this initiative is to increase the use of the eucalyptus. "Mingerch has to work in order to improve the use of the dinner, and it has to take steps, but not only from the Basque Department, but from all the rest of the departments of Christmas, and the fact that it isn't from the Benchret Department, because people's attention service is very important. In what language do we better explain the circumstances of health than in the language of one's mother? Now, thanks to this plan, the number of health workers who will receive and attend to the eulogy, and also the language of working among these workers, which has a direct influence on quality. II. This plan is 2013. When you came to present yourself to the parliament in the year Darpón's chief department clearly stated that this plan is of quality, that health workers use it to the sick and to the health services users is quality, and so we believe in our team. Not forgetting that all this is the language of our people, which is the fundamental right of any people, and the characteristic of a nation. II. In this plan, choose Your Language! the campaign is in progress, and we know that other campaigns and enterprises are also active. You're just trying to normalize the use of euphoria in the shells, so that the use of the cradle is effective. So committing is clear. Ostainer's head-heart is making a sense of respect for the local languages of the patient, and he's a witness to this as a witness to Osarism II. This Basque Plan. At this point, half of the plan has taken place and has just been evaluated. This subject will have its course in the days following; but, speaking of this intermediate evaluation, we would like to ask you the following question: Mr. Medical Chief, what does that interlude say?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Guruga. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u3	Mr. President, members of the legislature, Mr. President, chief officers, all good days. Madam, I will try to answer your question. The question, as you know, is long and deep; but as I shall soon come to explain it to you, I shall endeavour to give you a brief and clear answer to-day. In order to normalize the use of the Basque Use in the Part II. The plan started in 2013, and ended in 2019. The plan receives two types of evaluation: the end and the middle. Medium, as the name itself says, is medium and is finished. We started this year's April, and we ended up in November. As I said, we'll soon present the exact results. But in the meantime I will give some details of the evaluation I have made. The evaluation has taken over the whole Osade, that is to say, the 21st organizational organization. The evaluation was serious, a guarantee, made by an independent company. With regard to the evaluation methodology, I would like to stress that each of the Osakidetza organizations has produced a report on its own evaluation. 85 primary care, mental health and emergency centres and 86 hospital units have been visited. 465 interviews were conducted with patients whose preferred language was Basque. 465 telephone calls have been made to so many other priority care units according to the plan. 95 management positions, more than one hundred service chiefs and more than two hundred professionals from the priority units have been interviewed. And finally, focal groups have been organized, involving 322 professionals and 56 trade union representatives. From the work of analysis can be summarized, as the main conclusion, an important advance in the presence and use of Basque, as well as in the respect of linguistic rights. There is certainly room for improvement and the way forward, but the results are positive, and the achievements achieved are important. The increase in patients who have chosen Basque as their preferred language has already reached 194,000 people, and the increase in bilingual professionals is 2.7% per year of the total staff since the beginning of the plan. In short, as the principal result of the profound examination, we must say: we have advanced in respect of language, and more and more are the patients and workers who speak of eucalyptus, and, in order to improve the quality of the service, we have gone on. We know, no doubt, that there are more than one thing to be improved-that is where we are and will always continue to improve. The health department, the member's board directors, and all departments of Osaral Services, is obvious the work done to normalize the use of the cradle; the results are there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u4	Thank you, chief physician. Second point on the subject list: "The question is, Jul's Arzuga Gumuzius EH Collectors of the Society for the Security Chief, with telematic controls on women's violence." Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u5	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. All day long. Segurtasuneko sailburu anderea, we are all aware in this Parliament of the tragedy of the number of women victims of macho violence, but this question has its own name: Ziortza Linares came to this Parliament, participated in the Committee on Labour and Justice, and told us that he suffered and continues to suffer macho violence. He denounced the assailant, and allowed himself to be carried away by this channel of protocols of care of the Ertzaintza, psychosocial services, consultations and legal aid, judicial dossiers, and also of the systems of control of the offender. And he told us that these control systems have failed, because the aggressor in his particular case has jumped on countless occasions the restraining order. The circumvention has two uncertain rights: one of his physical and psychological integrity and his three sons, and the other, the right to develop a normal life without fear, the right to secure himself, or again to prevent it from suffering. But these two rights were torn and followed. The first is the spinal blonde who has suffered the attack, and this is known; but the second, because the measures of security and the measures of control have been disturbed, or because they have plain mistakes. Ziortza told us how it works... , better said, how does not work that electronic bracelet that is imposed on the aggressor, that telematic control system of the Ertzaintza that supposedly detects whether the offender has entered that radius of five hundred meters, in this particular case, from the removal order. From the control center of the Ertzaintza is communicated to Ziortza on numerous occasions, even several times in the same morning, that the GPS locator is out of coverage, or that the system has hung up. But Ziortza also told us that it is the aggressor who supposedly places himself or removes the device, and it depends on him who has a battery or who, on the contrary, is exhausted. It seems that it is the will of the recidivist assailant to be traceable or not; on the contrary, Ziortza's obligation is to know where he is located, because his physical integrity and his life go in it. I want to know if those telematic control systems work or fall, and what information your department has around it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u6	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u7	Thank you, ma'am. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning. Gender-based violence, indeed, is a dramatic reality for victims, also very complex from the point of view of protection, care, and requires a well-defined and sustained implementation procedure over time, and to that end, with that clear objective, avoid recidivism in abuse. Hence the police activity, in the case of the Ertzaintza, police station to police station, has specialized personnel and well-defined procedures of action, and perfectly established procedures of response. Cases of gender-based violence and domestic violence in Euskadi today have a reflection of 4,912 cases under way in the Ertzaintza, affecting 5,650 victims, exactly 4,553 women and 1,097 men, most of them minors. Twenty-seven of these people have an electronic bracelet, a telematic bracelet; 57 with permanent surveillance, i.e. escort; 74 with counter-monitoring services; and 942 victims have a Bortxa phone. The Bortxa phone, which is the service that the department and Ertzaintza offer to all victims as a useful tool for managing their safety. However, one clarification: telematic bracelets are not assigned by Ertzaintza, but are assigned by judges and judges, and run by the Ministry of Justice itself through a concessionary company. The bracelets were incorporated into the victim protection systems in 2009 with three fundamental objectives: to give effect to the victim's right to safety, to document the possible breakdown of the removal measures, and to deter the aggressor. It is true and cannot be denied that their implementation has contributed to reducing the risks of victims, but also, and I have said this on other occasions, it is no less true that, as the victims have expressed not only, but also the judicial authorities and the Office of the Prosecutor themselves, there are technical deficiencies in the system, which can lead to revictimization in protected persons. Ertzaintza herself this same year, on the occasion of her participation in the Senate presentation, requested that new technological developments be explored to minimize the impact that is being generated. It's for the Ministry of Justice and the company who cares about service to re-examine the present technical system.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u8	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u9	Yes, thank you. Indeed, it gives us some information on what measures are being taken. I knew them, because I read them in a newspaper, and I was hoping that you would tell us something new about these mechanisms, and especially about whether they are failing, what happens when they are not working, or why victims, in a way, have to assume that burden that the system is not working. In fact, it is the judges who must decide the precautionary measures that are imposed, but it is that the judge can be offered tools for ordering precautionary measures or other measures. And if you detect that a measure or a system, or a specific locator, or a bracelet doesn't work, I understand that you can propose and provide judges with other measures that work. Because I understand that there is an intermediate measure between a telematic control that does not work and the imposition of an escort, and it is precisely these measures that we are demanding. Moreover, they are measures that impose the burden not on the victim, but precisely on the aggressor. And I hope that you will make an assessment of this and propose some kind of system, because it is that these victims cannot expect this to fail, mainly because in the case of Ziortza he told us here... He was telling us he was sorry he reported it. They are encouraged to report, but once they do, they repent, precisely because they see that the system does not work. This is a failure of the system, and I hope that you will accept your responsibility for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u10	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u11	Yes, I insist, Mr Arzuaga: the system of telematic bracelets does not correspond to Ertzaintza. The Ertzaintza offers other protection systems that you actually know. I have told you, there is an intermediate system, which is the Bortxa phone, of immediate attention to these victims. And, therefore, the resolution of the problems that the telematic bracelets are generating is the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice. In the specific case of the department and the Ertzaintza, we are already taking new measures, innovation measures in Bortxa itself. In fact, we are setting up an alternative to the current phone, an alternative in app format, that can be incorporated into the phones, the victims' personal smartphones, and that offers a higher level of discretion and continues to offer these effective self-protection mechanisms. Eta, nolanahi ére, garbi uzzi nahi due gauza bat: ertzain-etxeetatik eskaintzen dugun prebentzio-, zantza- eta babes-zerbitzua da, éta biktimek oni baloratua. The assessment of the Victims' Care Service in the case of Ertzaintza, after the surveys carried out, is a high assessment, specifically of more than 9 out of 10. Therefore, as I say to you, we have intermediate measures, measures that are there, from preventive to counter-monitoring, escorts and Bortxa itself. These measures are being offered, and we are continuously improving them. But, I insist, the telematic bracelet does not belong to us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u12	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, "Ju Louis Urana Serano, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the head physician of the Medical Department, the financial condition of the Onostian Hospital." Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u13	Bakartxo Tejeria andrea. Lehendakari, councillors, comrade Jon Darpón, parliamentary colleagues. What do we do with Oncology? We've got a mess there. We'll talk after Christmas; now I'm just going to ask you about some things about pasta. On 7 March 2013, the Parliament of Gasteiz adopted an agreement in favour of the functional, structural and organic integration of the Oncology with the hospital of Donostia and in the public network Osakidetza. The parliamentarian of Euskal Herria Bildu Rebeka Ubera, and the ex-parliamentary of the White Socialist Party Roncal, win by chiripa (36-35) a vote in favour of you making that functional, organic and structural assessment for the financial sustainability and future of Oncological. You have not listened to Parliament, Mr Darpón. Sometimes we are right, Parliament (not always, sometimes we are right), and what the majority says is what the majority thinks, not where the truth is, we agree; but it has not listened to Parliament. The Oncology now lives with scarcely 23 million euros per year, which was carried out through a concert of the Department of Health and the Social Work of the Kutxa, which since 1933 is the owner. There have been major deficits, between three and four million, and some agent who knows more than I on this subject says he's going bankrupt. But there have been a number of financial operations, and within the Oncological, like an alien, there has been a thing called "Logik, your clinic in the Oncological", which has nothing to do with cancer, has nothing to do with the diagnosis or treatment of cancer, has nothing to do with the functional integration of Oncological into the public network. But he's been riding there, and we don't know anything about his financial activity. The 23 million, the benefits of private activity, the variable and descending economic participation of the Kutxa Social Work today in Oncology, guarantee their financial future? Are we going bankrupt? What do we do, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u14	Thank you, Mr. Uria. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u15	Mr. President, Mr. President, members of the legislature, chief officers. Mr. Uria, I don't think it's possible to question the financial condition of Onkological today; but, apart from this, there's no doubt about it: The Euscal Plan on Onkology will be fine. When you started talking, you didn't know if you were talking about toothpaste or financing Onkologikoa, but indeed the Oncological Plan of Euskadi addresses the model of oncological care and the organization of the resources of the health system of Euskadi, among which is Onkologikoa. But, obviously, Onkologikoa's funding is not the only aspect, not even the main aspect of the plan. In fact, the Oncology Plan aims to be broader and more ambitious, to encompass comprehensive oncology care, placing all the needs of people with cancer in the centre of care in Euskadi. The objective of the Oncological Plan is to advance the improvement of the health system as a whole, to provide these people with care that takes into account their physical and emotional needs and throughout the oncological process. And, of course, Onkologikoa is an important part of our healthcare system, and as such will fit into that plan. The beings who have cancer are the fundamental axis of the Oncological Plan; so that the object of the plan is to improve the health system in general, always to pay attention to the physical and emotional needs of these persons, and, in this plan, the Oncological filling up the important paper including the expressed Plancological plan.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u16	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u17	That's what he said in 2013. Zehatz-mehatz. That's exactly what he said. Moreover, two commissions were created, one for functional integration and the other for financial sustainability, but it did not listen to Parliament, neither in 2013 nor 2014. Privatizing adventures were launched, posing a market within the Oncological, financial operations that we do not know. It wouldn't be bad for a financial audit of the Oncology. Instead of Logik, they could call it the Bretxa market, which is more popular and also more noticeable what is happening. The doctors, the management, are quite confused with this situation. He's not going to a cancer hospital. Why don't they buy the center the franchises they've been offered to rent operating theatres? Why don't you buy it? To the franchises, to the insurers: let them buy it [[for]] I want you to buy it. They can't, because it's very hard to hold. It is only purchased on the public network, and is only financially, politically and functionally supported on the public network. But that's what we'll talk about after Christmas. You, rest. [[Barres]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u18	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u19	Mr. Uria, as I said, the Basque Plan is a highly intentional plan. It's a plan far beyond the funding of the ideal. We've known each other for a long time. I don't think you're exactly the right person to work to follow me. After Christmas we'll talk about it too. Try not to take much more weight. [[Barres]] The Oncological Plan presents four axes of action. First of all... (Barkatu, barkatu, barkatu). First, it sets out how further progress can be made in health promotion and cancer prevention. On the one hand, insisting on interventions at local and community levels, and on the other, strengthening cancer screening programmes. Secondly, it proposes interventions to improve the care model, highlighting in this area the lace of Onkologikoa and the oncology of the University Hospital of Donostia in a single care model. Thirdly, it proposes interventions to improve information systems, a basic element to make progress both in measuring results and in their costs. Finally, in line with a recent parliamentary agreement, it addresses a fourth axis of action around precision medicine and cancer research. During the past legislature, Uria jauna, advanced in functional integration between Onkologikoa's care services and the University Hospital of Donostia. Just as not progress has been made on the only thing you are interested in, which is that the government pays any kind of center in Donostia and the rest of Euskadi. But your policies and ours don't coincide with this. The advances have been remarkable in aspects such as the deployment of a single entry into radiation therapy, but we are aware that the objective, beyond functional integration, is to consolidate a unique oncology for Gipuzkoa, within a model of oncology care in Euskadi. From this perspective, different scenarios are being analyzed that will allow a model that respects the nature of the institutions involved, provide a stable and sustainable funding framework, and ensure comprehensive and quality oncology care for all people living in Euskadi. That's the goal.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u20	Thank you, Mr. Darpón... Thank you. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, smooth seams of Susana Corcuera, members of the Basque Socialists to the chief of Tourism, commerce, and Comssamo, concerning the gathering of the executive Committee of Tourism." Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u21	Thank you, President. Egun where we're supposed to be. The World Tourism Organization is a United Nations agency and the main international organization in the field of tourism. Its mission is aimed at promoting responsible, sustainable and accessible tourism for all. In collaboration with Member States' public administrations, it promotes tourism that contributes to growth, inclusive development and environmental sustainability. The World Tourism Organization generates market knowledge, promotes sustainable and competitive tourism policies and tools, further promotes tourism training, and works to make tourism an effective tool for economic development through technical assistance projects in over 100 countries around the world. The World Tourism Organization defends the application of the global code of ethics for tourism in order to maximize the socio-economic contribution of the sector, reducing and minimizing its possible negative effects. And this agency is committed to promoting tourism as an instrument for achieving sustainable development goals, aimed at reducing poverty and promoting development worldwide. Among its members are 158 countries, six associate members, and more than five hundred members representing various sectors. And this world tourism agency has an executive council, an organ that makes decisions of great relevance and projection at the international level. And that executive council meets at least twice a year, and it does so on a rotating basis in cities around the world, but also cities that are considered exemplary in the field of good tourism practices. And journalistic information has come to suggest that the next meeting of the World Tourism Organization could be held in Euskadi, specifically that the city of San Sebastián could be the seat of the first meeting of its executive council in 2018. The same information also stated that the Basque Government, among other institutions, was playing a fundamental and proactive role in that goal. That is why, Mr. Counsellor of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs, we wanted to know how these negotiations stand in relation to the possibility that Donostia-San Sebastián will indeed be the seat chosen for the next meeting of the Executive Council of the World Tourism Organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. To answer, Mr. Retortillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Corcuera, indeed, the World Tourism Organization is a United Nations agency founded in 1974 and responsible for tourism matters. Its governing bodies are the General Assembly, which consists, as you have said, of 158 countries; an executive council of 35 countries, which is a kind of permanent assembly, and a general secretariat that would be the executive body. I can confirm to you that we are indeed at a very advanced stage of negotiations to bring next year's Executive Council meeting to Euskadi, which, as you have said, meets twice a year. In recent years the meetings have been held in Rovinj (Croatia), Medellín, Luxor, Madrid, or the last in September in Chengdu, China. Spain is the permanent seat of the World Tourism Organization, and therefore, in addition to having a seat on the Council, it is involved in the designation of the seats of the meetings of the Executive Council. In June of this year he addressed the department, as well as the tourist authorities of other autonomous communities, to offer the possibility to hold or organize the first meeting of the council for the year 2018, which will also be the first to be attended by the new secretary general, the Georgian Zurab Pololikashvili, elected at the last general assembly in China replacing Taleb Rifai. After various contacts, and with some delay, we finally have the possibility that Euskadi will indeed be the seat chosen for the holding of this meeting. In October I also had the opportunity to receive the support of the Argentine Minister of Tourism, who has been chairing the executive board since September. Several contacts and meetings have been held from my department with representatives of the ministry, whose support I also thank here, as well as of the WTO, last Monday. That is why, as I said, I can confirm to you that we are indeed on the right track to bring the next meeting of the WTO Executive Council to Euskadi. With the details advanced at the last meetings, the board sessions will take place in three days. The first day will be devoted to the reception of delegations from the different countries attending the meeting; the second to the inaugural event and the work in committee; and the third to a specific thematic session, at which we can propose the topic as hosts. And it will finally end with a statement and conclusions of that executive council. The holding of the council is also a magnificent occasion to show Basquedi and its tourist resources to tourism leaders, and also the presence of presidents, whose management goes beyond tourism, will also offer the opportunity of other interesting contacts of work in other areas of government. The cooperation protocol will establish the technical-logistic needs, in some of the details of which we made progress at the meeting that I told you last Monday. Among other things, the election, indeed, of San Sebastián as the headquarters city of the one hundred and eighth meeting of the executive council of the OMT. I have to say that the designation of such a city was welcomed by the delegation of the OMT, and it is also a city that knows the new secretary general (from January 1, 2018) of the OMT. In short, it seems to me to be a magnificent opportunity for one of the most important acts of tourism worldwide to take place in Euskadi, and we can make good use of the good image and the good streak of the sector in view of the country's external projection. It is also an event organised by and for public institutions, and for this reason I believe that when we finally conclude the agreement, we can legitimately congratulate ourselves on getting this event to be held in Euskadi. We are also, because of the international impact of the event, in contact with the office of the lehendakari, to whom we inform and with whom we count to close also some extremes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u24	Thank you, Mr. Retortillo. Five point in theme list: "To ask the question, Alfonso Alonso Arnegui Rausea, a member of the Popula team made to the president about making Eukadin reforms." Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Lehendakari, you seem to be doing very well. You already have the Budgets this year (we will approve them next week), we have made an update of the Concert, and we have also solved the problems we had regarding the Cup, and that has also been closed this year. Your party rules in all institutions... The position they have taken is enviable. Even Mr Esteban has been awarded the prize to the best speaker in the Congress of Deputies! Then, you can feel logically satisfied. I, as I am not envious, am glad that things are going well for you and that they are going well for the government, and I hope that this will translate into good for Euskadi. But that, this living surrounded by so much laurel, has a problem, and has the problem that it is considered a risky position to initiate any change. I understand you, because you accumulate such a vast space of power that moving in one direction or moving in another can harm one or the other: you can anger the right, you can anger the left, you can feel annoying the one who is more nationalist or the one who is less nationalist... Moving in some direction can harm the interests, ambitions of some collective... I understand that everything invites you not to change things. But the challenges of Euskadi are not solved from inertia, and we have real concerns for the future. I believe that the time for stability is a time for reform. It is clear to him that our support for the action of the Government and for it to have such stability consists in that: stability in exchange for reforms, reforms to solve the problems that Euskadi has. And some are indefatigable, and I think they will go well if you face them in a certain way: you face them with leadership, getting involved, you face them also from dialogue, and you face them from a position of dissatisfaction, ambition, not to conform to what is happening around, and to see the risks of the future. We have talked about some in particular: the need to reform an education that is offering bad results; the demographic problem facing Euskadi; the fact that we now have half of the young workers we had fifteen years ago and that we must therefore have a strategy to attract talent; or the forecast also of demographic evolution in Euskadi, which means that, if we do nothing, in ten years we will have 180,000 fewer people working; that the Basques are very supportive, but we must be able to guarantee the sustainability of our social protection system. In Spain as a whole, and this is also a good thing for those who get involved with the Concert, they come to collect 3,900 euros per inhabitant; here they are collected 5,900 euros per inhabitant. But a shrinking working class, with shrinking wages, cannot bear a strain of that nature in the future. It is therefore necessary to face changes, quiet reforms, reforms which also involve a political risk, which imply that you take the best out of yourself and that you do so with the responsibility I know you have, but that you do so also with courage and ambition, and certainly taking a certain political risk. I hope you can tell us how you're going to deal with them; I ask you for that leadership. We had to do the tax reform in two phases, because in the first phase it did not respond to the competitiveness problem of our companies. I had to ask you in the rostrum to get involved; you got involved, we were able to change it. Next ones, we can't face them like this. From the minute one has to be with that leadership and that desire for collaboration. The year will end, we will approve the Budgets. We have a schedule of a lot of work ahead of us, we are willing to work. I too, as I told you, wish you a very happy Christmas, and we won't talk until the turn. I wish you would be very happy, but think of the hard work ahead of you next year.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u26	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. In short, Mr Alonso, you ask me with what criteria I approach the reform plan that Euskadi needs, and I answer you by telling you that we approach the reform plan with three criteria: shared strategy, transparency, and sustainability. And all this will also result in a concept that we are trying to serve for the involvement of all parliamentary groups as well, which is Auzolan. Shared strategy, because all relevant reforms have been contrasted with all the institutions, as well as the reference associations or entities in each area. Transparency, because all the reform proposals have been tabled in this Parliament and are open to incorporating the contributions of the groups. And sustainability, because the reforms have been analysed with realism and rigour, with a medium-term perspective, taking on the commitments that we can maintain with the resources that we have. All the proposals are at your disposal, and in one year we have forwarded to this Parliament our programme, with 650 initiatives, but we have also forwarded out of the fifteen strategic plans, twelve existing strategic plans, and the other three will do so this month. And in addition, eight laws are being processed, and we continue to work on the remaining twenty of our legislative agenda. Look, I highlight some reform proposals: employment plan, Basque Industry 4.0, entrepreneurship, governance and public innovation plan, port and maritime transport bill, cultural heritage, or energy sustainability, Lanbide reform proposals, housing master plan, RGI reforms, coexistence and human rights, pending transfers report... You have, therefore, more than enough material to also make your concrete contributions to the reform proposals that the Government proposes and that I lead: employment, industry, family, entrepreneurship, coexistence, housing, self-government, Basque, health, education, EITB, Lanbide... Reforms collected in our government program. In just one year we have demonstrated the capacity to propose and agree reforms in all areas, concrete and shared, presented in a transparent manner with the aim of improving the quality of life and the well-being of citizens. Today, indeed, Mr Alonso, is the last full of control, moments of reflection and good intentions are coming. I also have my good intentions in terms of leadership, in terms of what the reform of the GIR means. The bases and guidelines were presented in April of this year; on these bases and the contributions are being worked out the articulated text of the reform of the law that will be forwarded to Parliament in 2018, according to the planned schedule, and, if the processing allows us, as soon as possible. Also in leadership in relation to Lanbide: a document on improvements, modernisation and management reform is being worked on within the board of directors, and the final document will be presented to the parliamentary committee in February 2018, in a monographic session and also with the possibility of motions for resolutions. Therefore, Mr Alonso, I also convey to you my best wishes, and I ask you, look, a reflection for the year 2018, and it is also to reform your opinion and join the presentation of coexistence and human rights, Mr Alonso. On the threshold of the New Year, I propose that reflection. After all, this small regeneration can be a very fruitful thing for all of us, we will do more for the commitments of all the members of the legislature, Mr. Alonsus, to a settled partnership, and to human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Interregation, made together by the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the president, about the strategic planning of development." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u29	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President, Congressman, Mr. President. The current topic is not a new topic for the parliament, not for you either. The policy of co-worker in the main lines has probably been extremely consistent in the community of euscal, political parties; but unfortunately it hasn't been completed since, if we talk about budgets, the law we've received in the year 2007, and it's been 10 years since that time. The present economic system has led us to a profound crisis of system and civilization, and it is absolutely necessary that the model of the global society, the model of violence, of instability, and of permanence, should be questioned, namely, to approach another model, and to consider other values and motives which will allow us to open doors to a more permanent life of equality. Although a critical analysis of the ability to extend space for agents that represent new lives and encourage them, the public policy based on the means of transforming them is for us a means of modification. He said that the lifestyle and economic growth model that developed countries have is also supported by the use of resources from other countries. I think we have to be responsible, stop to think about the impact that this development model has, and the impact it has on the rest of the world. In this regard, the internationalization or globalization of the economy means that developed countries must also assume responsibility for the impacts they generate on a global scale. There is, therefore, an unequal exchange between rich and impoverished populations, because this Euskadi is no stranger to. Our ecological footprint indicates that we would need a territory about seven times higher to maintain our standard of living with our own resources, thus causing a high ecological deficit that we project towards third countries, towards the entire planet. From Elkarrekin We can, both in this inquiry and in the motion that we will put forward and in the proposals that we will also be presenting next week to the document of general guidelines for cooperation, we will put forward a commitment to the political dimension of international cooperation that generates a critical awareness, generates alternative proposals for development, generates social mobilization, and has policy coherence as one of its top priorities. For this reason, lehendakari, a policy of cooperation is necessary, which is a consolidated and stable policy, a policy that is not subject to specific interests, but that supports the enforcement of the law itself and the dialogue between all parties. Our proposals: to strengthen the motives, to strengthen the rights for social modification, to strengthen the consistency of public policies, and to follow the law by the budget. We are concerned and concerned about the debate that cooperation actors are having, in addition, strongly, about the debate that is opening on the introduction of commercial subjects (businesses, go) in the planning and action of cooperation. We believe that DNGOs, civil society and direct cooperation are the actors who need to develop this policy. We think that the current model of commercial relations, for the time being, prevents this cooperation that companies could make with public money from being controlled and from being – let me be licensed – clean. Relations are not symmetrical, and as long as we do not have an internationalization policy with these criteria there is no guarantee that this will be done. That is why – and we know that we are very heavy on this – and I quote a document from your Government on policy presentations, "the Basque Country strategy, and the whole of the Basque Government's external action, must at the same time promote the proper integration of Basquedi into the global economy and the defence of a framework of coexistence based on human rights and the conservation of resources for future generations." And all of this requires – and I continue with the document – once again to put policy coherence for development at the centre of concern when it comes to policy making. We think, and we have proposed this in several committees (also Mrs Elorza, also Mrs Tapia), that in the current process of reviewing the Government's internationalization strategy, also in the process of creating the new internationalization agency, it is essential that these elements be introduced with evaluable criteria, with transparent criteria and also with effective criteria, in order to achieve this long-awaited policy coherence. And we have repeated, and I have said it several times here, that we do not seek to criminalize corporate action, but the reality, both of Euskadi and of the world, requires greater control of foreign commercial activity, especially if it has public support, in order to avoid possible shortcomings and to project also – which I also believe is the interest of all – better Euskadi's image abroad. But, Mr Lehendakari, in addition to all this, solidarity and cooperation are also made with figures. I do not say that, as the very policy of his Government says, it is true that it has a horizon, but there is no concrete commitment to reach that 0.7 set out in the 2007 Development Cooperation Act. In 2012 the development cooperation of the Basque Government accounted for 0.49% of the budget, 50 million euros, and unfortunately in 2013 we suffered the biggest cut, which fell to 21 million and about 0.23%. In 2014 this Parliament approved a document of general guidelines of the III Master Plan 2014-2017, which was supposedly (well, supposedly not)..., was based on a document, on economic studies of the Government itself, guidelines that were said, guidelines that in addition to the social part itself, the Coordinator of NGOs and other agents also made an effort to understand the situation in which they were at that time, and those guidelines were accepted. More or less in 2014 35 million were established, a 0.34, which had to go until this year 2017 to a 0.53, 55 million euros dedicated to cooperation. I insist, according to the numbers themselves and the reports and economic memories of the Government. But the reality is that only two years later, in 2016, there was the first breach of those guidelines, because where 50 said 43. In 2017, where it said 55, it again said 43 (even if I am not mistaken, 160,000 euros less than in the previous year). And in 2018, 46 million, 4 million less than that approved by this Parliament for 2016. And if we compare it with what was in those general guidelines for 2017, it would be €9 million. A new proposal for general guidelines for cooperation policies is being put forward right now, but, Mr Lehendakari, let me tell you that we cannot rely on these new guidelines, because the previous ones, which were already downgraded to the Cooperation Act itself – which is a law that I say again has broad consensus in this country, in this Parliament and in the social part – have already been breached. It is true that in 2018 and 2019 they have played well in the budget, and there is a really low or conservative figure, which is not complicated to meet (in fact this year, according to the new approach of guidelines, it would be fulfilled), but nothing allows us to trust that by 2020 or 2021 it can be fulfilled. I hope, as Mr Arriola would say, that this is the case, but it is also true that it would be far from 0.7%. Because we hope that the economy will go well, that the economy will grow and that this growth will be redistributed, but that commitment would also be far from 0.7 per cent. In the year 2021, we will celebrate the 15th anniversary of the Law of Collaboration, President, and, I think, it would be a perfect time for the execution of the law on that anniversary. It is time to move from words to deeds. The 2018 budgets I think are a missed opportunity... Well, we will still have the opportunity; next week will be our increase amendment there so that the cooperation policy has a new impetus, but, well, we will continue to try with this inquiry, with this motion, with the proposals we will make to the general guidelines. And, as I say, next week we'll have a new opportunity to do it. That is why, Lehendakari, I was asking him about compliance with the Cooperation Act, because we think it is time to translate those commitments, that law, that social consensus that exists in Euskadi, into the public budgets of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u30	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u31	Thank you, ma'am, and thank you, Mr Martínnez, for your planning. Your question, Mr Martínez, has to do with a normative text that highlighted the feelings of solidarity of Basque society, and I share that. An ambitious text, which forms an integral system with its own nuances, which I believe deserves a positive assessment as a whole, and I do so too. Especially if we assume with realism and rigour what the economic situation we were living in 2007 was and what the current situation is. I think this is necessary, because, Mr Martínez, by fully sharing your concerns, in addition to what may be the reference to internationalisation, we have had and have to look inside as well, and we have had and have to take care of ourselves from within as well. And if you intend to ignore this reality, if you forget what has happened this past decade, and if you look only at Euskadi without attending to what is happening in the environment, then it will be very difficult for us to move forward, even if we share the purposes, as I say. In any case, and since his inquiry seems to be interested solely in a numerical figure, I will tell him that the quantification of the economic allocations for such political action has in no case meant that the Government's commitment to solidarity has been waived. First, even at the harshest moments of the economic crisis, we have maintained our commitment to cooperation, far above the parameters of our environment. Secondly, in the past few years we have respected and fulfilled all the commitments made by previous Governments. Thirdly, the commitment has been extended both within the Government itself, to all departments, and to the whole of the institutional sphere of Euskadi. Fourthly, the budgetary forecasts strictly allocated to the implementation of the cooperation actions, the responsibility of the Basque Agency for Development Cooperation, after the necessary reduction observed in the financial year 2013, have been increasing year by year. We have fulfilled all the commitments. You will not quote me from one of the projects that we have not supported, and from 2013 we have increased the budget for cooperation. It's just the funk that filled the commitments, and it's completed the budget that gets bigger every year. All engagements have been fulfilled, and all the projects which were either in motion or in progress have been continued. On the 30th of the past August, I gave the full answer to a question about the same subject in writing. So, Mr Martínnez, you have all the facts, you know them, and I'll tell you again. But you must examine them with a minimum of realism in its context and environment. It is no secret, Mr Martínez, it is public knowledge that the adoption of the law took place – as I said before – in 2007 at a time of expectation of growth, in full bonanza. And it is no secret that the economic crisis started in 2008. A crisis that has affected everyone, a crisis from which we have not yet recovered, and that is also what makes us have to look at and deal with the inside as well. A deep and permanent economic crisis, which in 2012 placed Euskadi in recession (in 2012, only five years ago). A crisis that forced the Basque Government to reduce the 2013 budget, as I have said before, by EUR 1.1 billion. And I remind you that at that time the budget was at 9 billion. A crisis that forced drastic measures to save the essential, essential public services to citizens. All Government programmes had to be in line with this reality. And this effort was not done only by the Government: families, businesses, businesses, affected people, professional and autonomous people... This effort, I have to recognize as lehendakari, was also done by the organizations and associations working in the field of development cooperation. And thanks to that effort we have been able to recover the investments year by year, keep all the projects running, and open every year new economic allocations, new projects, allocating more budgetary resources. Each year we have been increasing the resources of the Basque Agency for Development Cooperation, and – this is what is important – we have extended and we have extended the cooperation both to the institutional set of Euskadi and within the departments of our own Government. Fortunately, today in the Basque Country, the commitment to cooperation has resulted in a commitment to the coherence of public policies to which you have also referred, Mr Martínez. Thus, the budget estimates for cooperation are not exclusively those collected in the agency's budget, which, incidentally, for this year 2017 was 43 million in last year's draft budgets, plus two million following an amendment submitted by the People's Group. A total of 45 million have been consolidated in the draft budgets submitted for the 2018 financial year. But I insist that it is not only the Agency's budget that contains the budget for cooperation. There are more actions that are implemented with funds from other organs of the Administration itself, and this is a new reality, and I detail some of these actions relating only to this year 2017: General Secretariat for External Action: Basque Caravan with the Sahara to ensure food security in refugee camps; investment, 200,000 euros. General Secretariat for Human Rights, Co-operation and Co-operation: humanitarian response to the crisis facing refugees at European borders; investment: €700,000. Departments of Education and Culture and Linguistic Policy: technical assistance, through the public university, for heritage cataloguing; investment, 79,000 euros. Department of Education also: grant to the public university for grants and study grants in decentralized international cooperation; investment, €35,000. Department of Employment and Social Policy: Cooperative Basque Youth Programme, with the aim of raising awareness of Basque youth and fostering a culture of solidarity; investment, €198,000. Department of Health: health care and surgical interventions for minors from impoverished or conflict-affected countries and health care for minors in temporary care; investment, €135,000. Department of Economic Development and Infrastructure: support to the World Rural Forum, within the framework of promoting family farming through cooperation; investment, €45,000. Emakunde: Assistance to the United Nations Population Fund for participation in the programme on essential services for women and girls subjected to violence; investment: €18,000. URA, Basque Water Agency: contribution of 5% of the amount collected under water canon to cooperation projects managed by the Basque Agency for Development Cooperation; investment, EUR 121,000. And so we could cite other cases. The extension of the coherence of development cooperation policies has begun a path, extended a commitment, and this path opens up a new culture of development cooperation in which we must deepen and which we will continue to follow. I have acknowledged that the Cooperation Act was adopted at a time when the international guidelines set certain parameters for action. Today we look to the future. Next week, as you said, the document of general guidelines for strategic planning will be discussed in this Parliament before the adoption of the 2018-2021 Master Plan. We assume in the Government that it is necessary to take stock of recent years, and to address a debate that, without renouncing the particularities of Basque cooperation, will allow it to adapt to the new paradigms of a changing reality, which you also referred to. And these new directions of cooperation policies, and the possibility of undertaking the necessary reforms, will have to be reflected in the new master plan, which will have to fulfil the mandates contained in the general guidelines of strategic planning. Therefore, Mr Martínez, we are opening up to new approaches of forms, models and objectives, which, while respecting the particularities of our model, seek to adapt political action to the current realities and needs of the globalised world. Presenting and sharing this master plan is an initiative of the Government, and it is the best proof of a commitment to solidarity that is but a reflection of the commitment of the whole of Basque society, which we obviously share. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u33	Thank you. As I was saying to you, Mr Lehendakari, in general terms we are probably close, or agree, but it is true that, by focusing on the budgetary part, even with the figures... It has given me very quickly to do the calculations, but it is 1.5 million euros in the various programmes that you have pointed out. In 2017 it was planned to have a budget, in the current general guidelines, in which they are approved so far, of 55 million. Still, even with all that, we'd be very far away. That at no time, also making a critical analysis, in the propository sense, of the policy of cooperation that we do in Euskadi, both personal (that I have been part of it) and as a political group, the budgetary part that we do is because there are approved guidelines, after that situation that we suffer all Basques and Basques, of economic crisis and cuts, that obviously we also face what kind of cuts could be made... But what we are talking about is cooperation policy, what the United Nations has adopted and what the Basque Cooperation Act has adopted is a percentage, it is 0.7% of the budget. And right now we're a long way from that commitment. It is true that at the time of the adoption of this law there was a very determined political and economic context, but what is laid down in the law is only 0.7 % of the budget in this case of the Basque Autonomous Community. Because the budget reduction has effects, of course. In the years 2010-2015, with the money not only from the Basque Government, but from all the Basque administrations, the number of projects fell by 35.5 per cent in 2010-2015, leaving a few geographical areas and quite a few countries where cooperation policy for Basque NGOs was a priority until then. Because the public policy of cooperation guarantees, as I said in the first intervention, the fulfilment of the rights of thousands of people, and also guarantees at least to mitigate the effects of this economic system, which we obviously criticize. And we think and continue to claim that public policy of cooperation must be recognized, both in the part of declaration, in the part of recognition, in the part of theoretical recognition, in the programs of government, as well as in the part of the budget. That's why we're talking about 0.7! For example, I should not have general guidelines if there was a commitment that 0.7 % of the budget should be spent on cooperation year by year. It could be another option to work. If, for example, as with the Basque Caravan with the Sahara we signed all the political groups an amendment of 200,000 euros, it could be a policy of consensus, as is the law, that that 0.7 would always reserve it. That we were flexible perhaps in the execution, but that 0.7 was always stagnant in the budget. I have not intended to ignore the situation in 2013, nor the internal situation in the country, that cut that there was, but perhaps the biggest difference that we have, between the intervention you have had and the opinions that we are issuing, is that cooperation policy, public cooperation policy, also here in Euskadi, is an internal policy. Another thing is that also, and a fundamental part, has an effect on the outside, because much of that budget is devoted to the outside. But, as I said, in the law itself, the general guidelines themselves speak of a principle of basic solidarity here in Euskadi with the whole world. Criticisms are made, obviously softer than those that we can do from Elkarrekin We can, to the current economic system that governs the planet, but that policy seeks the same objective that we have, which we are going more towards transformation and government documents are going more and more in that direction, but at least they will mitigate the effects that in a limited way, it is also true, Basque does abroad. And it is also true that, with the budget you have, Euskadi's foreign action will be limited, but it is still important that we take it as an internal policy. Not only for the projects that are being done here, for education for citizenship, for education for development, or all the programmes that he mentioned in his last speech, but also for the very nature of the projects that are being developed abroad, which are Basque NGOs that are being developed there, and which is also – an issue that also concerns us – the projection of the image of Euskadi abroad. That should be – and on this occasion our proposals are there, because we are very heavy at making proposals in that sense – the best projection of Euskadi in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u34	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínez, I am encouraged to see that in general terms, as you said, we could or can be quite close and even agree, as you said, being that what you raise is the discrepancy in the budget lines. I believe that, in any case, I must reiterate the need to analyse the issue of development cooperation with an integral vision, with realism, with rigour, in its context and in relation to our environment, with our own environment, and also by looking inside us. And I would like to insist that Euskadi is the most supportive community in all the communities of the state. That we represent less than 5% of the entire population and contribute more than a third of all the economic resources that all communities devote to development cooperation. And I think this needs to be underlined. What else can we do? Yeah. Are we doing it? I think so, too. We do it because we don't settle, and I don't settle either. But our commitment remains in effect and with our feet on earth. We will continue to expand resources for cooperation projects from all government departments and from all Basque institutions, not just those envisaged by the Basque Agency for Development Cooperation. I have indicated that there are political actions in the field of development cooperation that are carried out by bodies of the general and institutional administration outside the Basque Cooperation Agency, from their own budgets. So, Mr Martínnez, we all made a special effort, which is what I confess. That's what organizations and societies work for their co-workers do. And I have to admit, thanks to this effort, we've been able to recover our investments for years. And again shall I say: To keep all projects going, open new economics, new projects, more budget resources every year, and expand cooperation in every organization and in every department of fun. Now, look at the future. That's what shows the peacepromise that reflects the commitment to the whole euscal society. Finally, Mr Martínez, allow me to conclude by offering you three background data. They are objective data, which can serve as a reference for interpreting, understanding and adequately dimensioning the commitment of Basque institutions in this area, and the commitment shown by the whole of Basque society. And I believe that, while the law says what it says, I do believe that we also have to be aware of the context, and I will appeal to it permanently in relation to what is reality and the principle of realism and rigour. The Zaragoza City Council, according to its preliminary draft budgets, will allocate a total of 3,300,000 euros, 0.41%, to development cooperation in 2018. The City of Madrid has allocated to cooperation in 2017 a budget of 12.100.000 euros, that is, 0.22% of the consolidated budget. The Valencian Generalitat has in 2018 a budget for cooperation of 22,600,000, that is, 0,10 %. I sincerely believe that Euskadi has done, is doing and will continue to make an effort in terms of cooperation. What should be improved? Absolutely. What should be expanded and strengthened? Absolutely. But it cannot be scorned or disqualified. And I think it's an effort that deserves respect and recognition. And do you know why, Mr. Martinez? Because precisely the municipalities of Zaragoza or Madrid, or the Valencian Generalitat, we have record that they respect and recognize the cooperation policies that we develop in Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the members of the House of Ubeka Aranz and EH are assembled to the president about the language of the Government." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u37	The head of the table, Mr. Urkullu, good morning to all. First of all, Mr. Urkullu, we wish to congratulate you, first, because the different governments of the Basque Country, in conjunction with the popular clergy, have agreed with the end of the popular use, in order to improve the manners of the Basque Use. We think it's a significant step that's taken. But the responsibility of the people is one thing, and the responsibility or responsibility of this government is another. And there must ye be examples: it is your duty to be a model; it is your business to establish the measures of the right of language of the people. In order to continue the normalization of the Basques, in the prestige of the Basque Sea, and in the States to give quantum steps, the leadership is yours. You have to take the leadership. You have to be a leader in the use of the eucalyptus to make this government refractory. For in the exercise of a government, in the business of labour, the preference to the euphorium, is the triumph of the eumancipation, because it is in readiness to gain it. But it's true that this government has a long way to go. There is nothing to see but the use of the Euscence made by the different Counsellors of this Government in the Parliament. others are making an important and grateful attempt, and others, it is certain, are properly used. And besides this, every chief physician has in his department different plans of use, and there is nothing more to see than what sort of work is left to fulfil these plans of use. Therefore, for all these reasons, and also for other reasons, we would like to know whether, to-day, to win the eucalyptic and normalization, the President will improve the language of his government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. And Mrs. Ubera, thank you for the expression of happiness you made. And, yes, we'll always have something to improve in the prestige of the cradle and normalization, both in the government and out of the government, in our habits of language, and in our communication with each other. Each of you can do more; I have no doubt. And I accept your review or your contribution, and I accept them. You mentioned the Basque Day before. This year, I want to emphasize a change which I have noticed, and that is, without neglecting the proclamation, to encourage the engagement. This is the view that the Euscharism was born. The Euskara's day is a day, and we know that the euska needs 365 days. In this way, the Eucharist made an 11-day proposal to continue his engagements. And we hold our commitment. We've taken five commitments and 17 specific initiatives in the government program. The first year is up, and I'll tell you all those commitments are in progress. Between the teams, we've advanced significantly. For example: The HABEs and Professions have signed a treaty that the unemployed will learn to the eucaco; we've arranged the records of the eucalypology to the European frame of Europe, we've signed a contract with the Basque Wikilers Association on Wikipedia, a new decree to regulate the Excellent Quality certificate; in order to increase the use of the Eucharation in the works, we've accepted the commercial aids of the Basques, the Basque Government of Naharre and the United States of the North, the First treaty of the United States, in order to continue the week's truce, after we's departure at the Academy of the Stratal Government, and after the Council. These are examples. Seven examples. It may seem a great deal or little, but it's a word I've had, and we're doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u41	I agree with what you said: That these individuals could do a great deal in the government, or be out of the government, and I think we ought all to make an important effort to make use of it, because we are, after all, an example, and the representatives of a people. So what I want to ask of you today is the courage, the leadership, the lack of complex activity, your work, your work, your work, the use of the rest, the prescendation. Let your counselors come to war with you in the successions of the legislature, in the occurrences of the whole gatherings, even outside the legislature. We must not forget, without euccany, that there is no Basque People, and without eucalyptus, that our people may be converted into a mere phylclylcan seal without identity and culture. So keep your engagement and use it for the rest of your time, and encourage all the counselors to complete this engagement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, Madam Ubera, I believe that between the president and the chief of departments we have a degree of euphoration, even in the council meetings... That I have answered some question, even in writing, as yet. I accept the criticism and all the contributions, and I also accept the cheers, Č non-decilla, and also thank you, and even in that, I pledge myself. I will say with all modesty, that I wish as much as you, that I should live and normalize the rest of the community, not only in the exercise of the chief officers, but also in the use of all the citizens. There is a difference: you are keeping the progress of the proclamation, and I have introduced to you our precise commitments and enterprises in the first round. And we shall keep them; we shall agree to new engagements; we shall receive them and perform them again: this is the way of the eucalyptus during the last nearly four decades, and you must admit that, according to what you said at first, it has grown up to the eucalyptus, has won the prestige, and above all that the support of the Basque society has increased. What we've got is a lot of funhing, but now and then it's also positive to accept and highlight what you've got, and not only what you said or what you said, but only what you said together, through the neighbourhood, we've managed to go on, and that's the only way we're going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "The question is, that Carmelo Barrio Barrio Barroja, a member of the Popula team, was made to the president about the victims and memories of the Civil War in Eukadin." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u45	Egun on. Good morning. Thank you, President. Lehendakari, counselors, counselors, good morning. 2017 has been a year for memory, no doubt: eighty years of many terrible events. The memory of the victims is something that we will always defend in the future, and to all the victims of barbarism and of the crimes committed in the Civil War. That binds us to many, to the vast majority, as it binds us to many the memory of the victims of terrorism. I say again, we have witnessed with emotion in 2017 many acts of remembrance, tribute and recognition with great significance, with a great sense of injustice that involves a war between brothers and sisters. We have been at the inauguration of the columbary in Elgoibar in January 2017; in memory of the shootings of Azazeta, of the bombing of Durango or Gernika, in April 2017; in Gogora with the shootings of Santoña, remembering the victims; in the tributes, for example that of Lauaxeta; in other acts in tribute to the children of the Civil War; in the act of the Iron Belt to which we were also able to attend; in exhumations that have existed from the remains of ex-combatants, exiled in the camp of Gurs... Acts and tributes like these have had a memory with very outstanding references, and of course there they are and there we will always be and always will remember. However, since the institutions that have organized these acts (the Basque Government, Gogora, deputies, municipalities) no acts have been organized to recall, among other crimes, the killing of the Bilbao prisons that took place almost eighty-one years ago, or other crimes, such as the crimes and killings of the Cabo Quilates or Altuna Mendi prison ships, or the shooting of the Durango or Derio cemeteries, or the shooting of the largest civilian crime in Alava, Elosu. I mean, I do appreciate and value what you did last year, on December 3rd, in a tweet on social media, the "Larrinaga 80 urte", where you recognized the injustice you suffered, showed your solidarity with suffering, talked about the 224 people killed on January 4, 1937 in Bilbao, in prisons... But I think it is necessary, Mr Lehendakari, one more step, involving society in that memory. Involving society in memory as we have lived in other memories, those that commented on it. We have met with relatives, descendants of many people who suffered these injustices. Many descendants have less gestures of memory and recognition. We have been transferred, and I would like to ask you, Mr Lehendakari, what your intention is to recognize these victims, such as those of Corporal Quilates, those of Altuna Mendi, those of the Custodial Angels, Carmel, Larrinaga, or the cemetery of Derio or Durango, or the crimes of Elosu. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u46	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr.Barrio, you know that the Basque government through the Gogora Institute has organized several acts of recognition and reparation for the victims of the Civil War this year (also in the previous ones, as you have already said). We have done so in accordance with the 2007 Historical Memory Act, and I quote its article 2.1, which states: "As an expression of the right of all citizens to moral reparation and to the recovery of their personal and family memory, it recognizes and declares the radically unjust nature of all convictions, sanctions and any forms of personal violence produced for political, ideological or religious reasons during the Civil War, as well as those suffered by the same causes during the dictatorship". We make no distinctions when it comes to qualifying the crimes committed during the war, nor in recognizing the victims of those injustices. Proof of this, as you have said, and which also cost me some criticism that I believe was then explained by your fellow banker at that time, is the statement that I made (I think it was, if I remember correctly, not on December 3 of last year, but on January 4 of this year) on the occasion of the 80th anniversary of the 224 murders committed in the prisons of Bilbao to which you refer, to the ships prisons as well, to the cemeteries. And the lehendakari himself Agirre – and this is important to say, because it must also be placed in its context – did so already at that time. The inclusive approach is inspired by the Human Rights Vulnerations Base report 1936-1978, which we will shortly release, with the nominative data of all the people who died during the Civil War. I repeat, we do not make any distinctions, nor should we fall into the equality between victims. And I insist that already the lehendakari itself – which in other cases could not be said the same thing – the lehendakari Agirre itself, did also in relation to the issues that you point out. Look, the violence exerted by Francoist power obeyed an organized plan that gave continuity to an uprising against democracy. It was a strategy of state, systematic terror and elimination of the opposite, and there is no equality possible. In conclusion, I value as much as possible the participation of all political groups in the recognition events we have organised. Your group, and you in particular, have also done so, and I give great value to the demonstrated unity. To remember and recognize injustices, and to do so together, is our best tribute to the victims, and we will continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u49	Thank you, President. Thank you, lehendakari. I share everything you have said about the thoughts of the Civil War, but I do ask you to do something else for those other victims. I'm asking you to do something else. The massacres ended with the lives of lawyers from Bilbao, Las Arenas, Getxo, Elorrio and San Sebastián, doctors, travellers, students, newspapermen, employees, housewives, farmers, merchants, industrialists, railways, armers, shoemakers, tailors, barbers, confectioners, teachers, watchmakers, traffickers, fishermen, officials, administrative agents, representatives, armers, electricians, teachers, priests, friars, seminarians, bricklayers, pharmacists, as well as military and police personnel, in all these prisons, in the ships, in the cemeteries. Mr Lehendakari, something must be done to involve society. In the same way that we have done during this year 2017 and previous years, as we recalled before, but something needs to be done. These victims also need and deserve a memory from public institutions such as the one you preside over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u50	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. President, to answer you, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Barrio, you know that the plan of the Gogora Institute contains the objective of carrying out an act of general and nominal recognition once the database of all the people who died in the Civil War is completed. All of them. For eighty years, many of the victims of that period have had little recognition, and many are still missing and their families are still looking for them. Democracy has an outstanding debt that Basque institutions feel as their own and we will try to settle, to heal wounds and build a conciliatory coexistence. With all, with all the victims. But this debt is also owed by the institutions of the State, and I believe it is necessary and fair that in this respect the Spanish Government fulfils the parliamentary mandate set out in the Historical Memory Act. It's a pending step, it's a necessary step, and it's a fair step, Mr. Barrio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. 9th point on the subject list: "Interadectation, written together by Jon Hernandez Hidalez, a member of the Podemos to the Chief of Public and Autogony, as to the Exhibition Administration of Euscal Autonomy Erdi." Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u53	Good morning. Good morning, Mr. Erkorek. We live in the best of the possible worlds, or that's what the theorists, the neoliberal ideologists, told us until the arrival of the 2008 financial crack. And, despite the ravages that this crisis has left in the living conditions of millions of people around the world and thousands of people here in Euskadi, many of the lies of neoliberal fauna continue to dominate the thinking of some political circles, economic elites and mass media, which largely reflect their interests. One of these continuing fables is the need for a light state, allowing the market to self-regulate and private economic operators to reach new niches related to all types of public services and of general interest, on the basis of normally efficient, economical, specialized and even competitive arguments. On these ideological foundations, the tendency to transmit different activities from the public to the private has been assumed and practiced in recent decades by different public administrations, also by the administrations here in Euskadi. It is a proven fact at all latitudes that privatization and outsourcing of public services only lead to quality degradation and worse working conditions. That's right, guaranteeing important private managers benefits. The European Union is using all political instruments, particularly through the European Commission and the World Trade Organization negotiations, to deepen the trend towards thinning public services in order to benefit private sectors. We, on the contrary, find that in our society, here in Euskadi, the argument that justifies privatizations and outsourcings is rejected by the majority of people by falsehood, and in a special way is rejected by the public workers, who know their results very well. We believe that public services are indispensable for a dignified life, especially as a necessary tool to combat inequality. Access to them is, in our view, a universal and inalienable right, and must therefore be managed publicly as a basic and elementary guarantee for its consolidation. It is an obligation of the public administration, which belongs to us all, which should therefore not delegate its own tasks to companies which do not meet more criteria than the objective of obtaining profits from their private owners. At present there are two methods mainly to achieve this thinning of the public sector in favour of private sectors: the pure and hard privatization of companies or even of complete public sectors, where we are also not an exception in Euskadi (it would be necessary to remember the cases of Euskaltel or Kutxabank, for example), and secondly outsourcing, the private management of tasks specific to the public sector through public concessions, contracts, concerts, etc. On the latter, we would like to know today about his Government's plans and approaches for the future. We want to know this for two main reasons. Firstly, because this administration, like others, regularly uses this method from which some companies benefit at the expense, in our opinion, of thinning the public, and which, as I said, has consequences on three elements: the quality of services, the costs for the public coffers, and the quality of the jobs concerned. Secondly, because there has been a concern on the part of public workers for years about the excessive outsourcing and how this affects the lack of employment and the very quality of employment. That concern about the outsourcing drift was brought by the trade unions in our country to the General Bureau of the Administration of the Autonomous Community, as you well know. As a result, a commitment was made to reverse the outsourcing trend through Decree 83/2010, which you also know perfectly well. The decree contained a whole whole chapter specifically devoted to outsourcing, which was raised by the trade unions in view of the need to paralyse and reverse the trend towards outsourcing services. That was also the spirit of that agreement. The decree makes it clear that the Administration will preferably provide the necessary services for the development of its activity by its own means. For us the wording leaves no doubt: what the Administration must do is to provide with its own means the services it needs for the development of its activity (to serve with its own means), and only when this is not possible in any way can it be possible to use external services, private services. We would like to know whether the opinion of this Government coincides with this statement: the Basque public administration must provide the services it needs for all the development of its activity with its own means. Since the entry into force of the above-mentioned agreement, the Administration has also undertaken not to outsource any new or existing activities that were not already subcontracted at that time. In the period from 2010 to December 2017, we ask ourselves, has nothing been outsourced? But, above all, we are interested in knowing what the Government's approaches to the future are: is this Government prepared to take the necessary steps to ensure that the Basque public administration takes care of the services it needs for the development of its activities by its own means? This is what we are interested in knowing today, the intention of this Government on how to manage public administration and services, whether through a model based on own resources, or through a mixed model, through own resources and private enterprises. We are particularly interested today to know this from your Government, beyond even the discussion on non-compliance with the 2010 agreements. We already know that you hold that these agreements are being implemented, and we hold that they are not. Not just us: you know that all the trade unions in our country are complaining that the agreements on non-externalization are not being complied with. It seems difficult to me that so many different collectives have agreed or are inventing one thing at a time, but, in any case, I would not like to get too involved today in the question of whether or not to comply with those agreements, although I will refer to one in particular, the agreement to set up a committee to monitor the outsourcing of services; a joint committee, composed of the Administration and trade union organisations, and sectoral committees. Trade unions have repeatedly called for the establishment of these commissions, without any response from the Government. If you argue that the outsourcing agreements are being complied with and the unions argue that they are not being complied with, why don't you call the unions to set up these commissions? What are you afraid of? In our view, Mr Erkoreka, they are afraid that it will be put on the table in a clear way that the government's policy will be based on the outsourcing of public services, contrary to the criteria that gave rise to those agreements designed precisely to paralyse and reverse the outsourcing policy. In our opinion, good public administration cannot be defended and the subcontracting of professional categories such as kitchen, laundry, cleaning, maintenance, archives, computer science, physiotherapists and a long one etc. cannot be defended. In our view, good public administration cannot be defended and the outsourcing of its own services, such as collection management, statistical operations of the Eustat, health services, ambulances, emergency services, security of the Ertzaintza units, etc., cannot be defended. Because then things like the ones we are familiar with these days happen, which seems to be that the contracting company, just over a month ago, of the security of the Ertzaina units in Oiartzun, the RMD company, is a pirate company, whose bad practice had already been denounced earlier by its workers. He's just joined the administration, and they've already started with late payments. Despite its commitment in 2010 not to outsource any more services, and to set up commissions to monitor outsourcing, the Basque Government continues to outsource cleaning, security, computer services, job guidance, telephone service, survey, translation, etc. Mr Erkoreka, there is a kind of parallel administration in this country thanks to the policy of subcontracting and outsourcing that is being undertaken to thin the public service and promote private benefits, at the expense of precarious public employment. It is also false that externalization saves money. To the accountant. For example, through tax savings, without going further, which would be saved by direct recruitment, the working conditions of employees could be improved. The current and undeniable deterioration of working conditions in the labour market also allows prices to be lowered for private enterprises, and this further supports this field of cultivation for the outsourcing of public services, and ultimately results in the quality of essential benefits for citizens. That is why we would like to know, as I say, more than to discuss once again whether or not to comply with those agreements, we would like to know the opinion of this Government with regard to the future as regards the management of the public administration, of the entire public administration; to know what criteria will govern the public administration in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u54	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u55	Thank you, Chief of Parliament. r Let me see. Chiefs of departments, congressmen, all good days. Mr Hernández, disregarding now – I think it would be of no interest to do anything else – the general considerations you made at the beginning of your speech, about the ghost of neoliberalism that is going through Europe and penetrates inexorably also into Basque territory, applying itself relentlessly to your administrations, ignoring those considerations, which I believe could give an interesting ideological debate that is not a place to take place now, allow me to start my speech with terminology that I believe is appropriate, not because academic pruritus that are absolutely left over in a parliamentary forum like this, but because I am absolutely convinced that the debate on this or any other issue cannot be carried out if we do not all use at least a certain or a minimal conceptual homogeneity. Therefore, a conceptual precision I think it is important to formulate here, because I have seen that you, not so much in the concepts, but yes later in the use of examples, have faced a treatment identical to situations enormously different from the point of view of your conceptual characterisation and also from the point of view of the legal treatment to be given to them. Let me therefore begin my intervention with this conceptual precision. I think it is important to distinguish between privatization and outsourcing. I am not saying that you have confused both terms, but you have made quite an indistinct use of both expressions. Privatizing is for the public administration or the public sector to renounce ownership of a public service, direct it directly to the market: it places it in the market's hands. Externalizing a public service is that, withholding its ownership in public hands, its management is entrusted to a private company, for whatever reasons (of efficiency, efficiency..., for whatever reasons). But conceptually they are two concretely different measures. It is also important to distinguish between outsourcing and..., allow me grammatical inaccuracy or grammatical inaccuracy, but it is necessary to distinguish between outsourcing and non-internalization. It is not the same externalization, that directly assume services that are already externalized. Because sometimes we talk about outsourcing in relation to services that have been outsourced for a long time. "No, you're outsourced"... No, no, I'm sorry. They have been outsourced for many years. So, it's not the same thing not to internalize... I know that internalization is not in the dictionary of the Royal Spanish Language Academy, but allow me, for the sake of symmetry and clarity, to use it in this case. Therefore, given these conceptual clarifications, I would like to start my speech with a statement of principle. And the principle statement is that I totally deny the biggest one. I deny that the Basque autonomous public sector, or, if you prefer, the Basque Government, is engaged in a process of systematic outsourcing of its public services, much less of systematic privatization of public services. Not at all. This I believe can be totally denied. You are right that you said – I understand in your speech – that between the year 2010, which quotes as the date when the General Committee agreement was adopted, and the year 2017 there have been no outsourcings. But you have asked me about the Government's approach. Therefore, in this it seems that I agree with you, that between 2010 and 2017 outsourcings have not occurred, and privatizations less. Privatization, less. Another thing is that there may be discrepancies between the Administration and the trade union representation regarding the interpretation, scope and content of some of the contents of the working conditions agreements. This may exist, but it exists in all organizations where collective bargaining exists, there is exactly the same discrepancy, and for that there are mechanisms in the working conditions agreements themselves to resolve differences, agree interpretations and channel the differences that may exist around the scope and content of expressions. Well, you ask me what you are going to do, what is the criterion with which the Basque Government is going to act in relation to this matter. Well, the Basque Government can only continue to manage the existing framework in this area, which is marked by three references. First reference, the law of public sector contracts. Insolatable, it is in force there, and therefore it is the framework in which all contractual action by the public sector must be carried out. The law is, finally, the consolidated text of 2011, which is still in force, there is a new law passed in General Courts that will come into force in March of next year, and therefore the first reference is that Law on Public Sector Contracts, now still the consolidated text in force in 2012, and when it is replaced by the law recently adopted by General Courts, that law. Secondly, the working conditions agreements signed by the Government with trade union representation. You refer to a specific one, that of 2010, which refers to the staff of the General Administration exclusively. I think it is more appropriate, in view of your inquiry – if I am wrong, but I think it is more appropriate – to refer to the agreement of 18 November 2009, which was adopted at the general table, and that does affect all sectors. Not only officials of the General Administration, who are a minimum part of all staff working in the Basque autonomous public sector. Therefore, first, the law on public sector contracts. Secondly, the working conditions agreements, and in particular, as regards the general table and the general approach of the Basque autonomous public sector, the agreement of 18 November 2009. Thirdly, the agreement adopted within the Governing Council, which is precisely in the light of the forecasts of this working conditions agreement, on 29 April 2014, setting out the instructions on good practice in the procurement of services. Well, what do these predictions say? You have indeed made a definite reading of the working conditions agreement of the General Committee. He says he makes an exclusive bet on the use of his own resources in the provision of services. It's not like that, and you know it. Article 6 of this agreement on working conditions refers to a preferential (non-exclusive, preferential) use of own resources in the services required by the public administration for the development of its activity. Therefore, this is what the Administration is doing and this is what the Administration intends in principle to continue to do: to continue preferably, not exclusively, using its own means to develop activities linked to its services. That is right, immediately thereafter there is a commitment not to outsource that affects any new activity that may arise, or existing activities that are not subcontracted. But even this provision must be interpreted in the light of the third paragraph of Article 6 which directs the Government to draw up an express rule on the procurement of services. This rule would not be necessary if the prohibition were as restrictive as you set out or as you state with regard to outsourcing. Because outsourcing would not be necessary to regulate it, as established by the agreement itself, if it were prohibited. Evidence that it is not prohibited is that the working conditions agreement itself, which states that the use of own resources is preferential, not exclusive, instructs the Government itself to draw up legislation to regulate outsourcing. This outsourcing is regulated; the rule that regulates it is the agreement of the Governing Council setting out these good practice instructions for the procurement of services, and that is the framework in which the Basque Government operates. The standard of instruction and good practice states that, exceptionally, contracting for services intended for unimplemented activities will be permitted and that, when implemented, they will not be contracted at that date. They are therefore admitted; exceptionally, but they are admitted. And this is the regulation that the Government has made in the framework of the working conditions agreement, and this is the framework in which the Government will continue to act, managing in the most equitable way, in the most balanced, reasonable and efficient way possible, the implementation of these three normative references defining the regulatory environment in which the autonomous public sector has to move in view of the issue you raise, whether or not the outsourcing of public services. What can happen and in fact disputes arise when interpreting some of their predictions (what is new activity, what should we understand by existing activity and not subcontracted)? Well, there are differences that have mechanisms to be resolved or prosecuted, provided for in the conventions themselves or in their case in the courts of justice. In some cases, discrepancies have not been resolved internally and have been brought to justice. Well, let us wait for the courts to rule on those issues that are judicialized, but on all other issues we continue to seek to reach agreements and shared views on the implementation of the normative provisions that I have just mentioned, which are unspeakable. I do not think you will question either that the framework in which we have to move, regardless of the ideological approach of each one, is the one I have just quoted, with those three normative references. That is where we are going to move, and for that purpose, with the intention of managing that framework in the most equitable, reasonable and efficient way possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u56	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u57	Yes, thank you, Mr Erkoreka. Well, first of all I want to clarify two issues, which you said I said and which I didn't really say. Firstly, I did not say that we agree with you that there has been no outsourcing since 2010. What I have said is that my intention today was not to discuss it again; that we have debated in this House, we have discussed it in committees and we will certainly discuss it again, and you will have to continue to discuss it with the trade unions, if you are willing to meet with them on this issue. And secondly, I have not talked about a model that prohibits any kind of outsourcing, any kind of outsourcing. I haven't talked about prohibition. I know well what the word "preferably" means, or I think I know him well. However, my question, as I have told you, was about the government's intention for the future with these kinds of issues, and I believe that you have referred above all to the regulatory framework in which we are moving. Well, beyond the normative framework, I don't know if you will agree with me that different policies can be made with the same normative framework. Beyond that I would be in favour of changing the regulatory framework, of course, but I believe that different policies can be made with the same regulatory framework. If not, then I do not know whether some of the democratic principles of this system, the party system, would make much sense. If there is simply a legislative framework, and that framework does not allow for different policies, then, in my opinion, of course, it would be a bad democratic system. And, therefore, our question is about the government's intention as regards the public system, and that is why I have made a sort of small general discourse, which started from the general to the most concrete, which I understand that you deny the largest one and that you do not agree with some ideological considerations that I have made (it is normal, indeed), but we do understand that in the public administration, guided by the government logically, there is a concrete policy, and it is a policy of a public-private model. In other words, an important part of the public administration carries out tasks through private companies. Tasks that, in our view, in a great many of these cases are tasks that the public administration could do directly, and in particular, to that end, the public administration would have to take the appropriate measures to carry them out. And that is why I have referred to that agreement in 2010, because the spirit of that agreement I believe is very well reflected in the article, and, beyond that it is binding – although I say it is not in our opinion – that it is binding on a part of the Administration, what is said there, in our opinion, is a definition that could be perfectly valid for the kind of policies that we would like to see done, and that is why I am asking the Government about what policies you want to do about it. To equip the needs of the public administration with its own elements, preferably, in fact. "Preferably" means that everything that can be endowed with its own elements we will have to try to do with its own elements, right? In the criteria that you have raised for me only at the end of your intervention, in the only part where you have not referred to the normative framework, you speak of elements that in my opinion are subjective, and what for you can be effective, or what for you can be logical, perhaps for other groups is not. And that is what I am talking about, and that is why we are interested in knowing the views of the Government and what policies it is going to take in this regard. Because, in our view, the outsourcing of services in most cases is absolutely negative. It's negative simply because a private administrator has to get some benefits, and from somewhere those benefits come out. And those benefits can only come, in our opinion, from three elements: either the working conditions of those workers are worse than if they were public service workers, and that makes the difference; or the service is worse, and that makes the difference; or, if not, the public service pays that extra cost. Because from somewhere there have to come those benefits that the public administration directly does not have that imperative need to obtain. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u58	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u59	Thank you, Chief of Parliament. r her. Mr Hernández, we have acquitted the positions of everyone after this second intervention. Indeed, I have made a reference to the regulatory framework. I think she was bound; you also referred to that regulatory framework. You said you're not a supporter, you don't like him. Whether I like it or not, it is what we have as a reference, and therefore it seems to me that placing me as a government in an alternative scenario, as an exercise of pure speculation, would make no sense to do so here; therefore, I sit there. But, of course, we are not talking about a regulatory framework dictated only by legislative institutions, no. We are talking about a regulatory framework in which a working conditions agreement is added to the general rule issued by the General Courts. Therefore, I believe that this is insurmountable. I mean, you'll like it or not, but it's the frame in which we have to move. It's not like I'm too satisfied, either. But from there, the discrepancies begin. You tell me "Well, I have not defended the thesis you attribute to me. I recognize preferentially. " If you want, we'll review your initial intervention and see if you've made a reference to "preferably." I'm sure not. I'm sure not, because I've reviewed it. Well, we effectively assume what the working conditions agreement says, in general, because the 2010 agreement is strictly limited to the official staff of Lakua, a minimum part of all public employees in the Basque public sector, and the whole is the 2009 agreement, the 18 November 2009 agreement. That is why I wanted to refer to him, because it is the framework that complements the provisions of the law in this respect and from which the agreement adopted in the Governing Council starts by setting out the instructions for good practice in the field of public service procurement. From there, you tell me "I think preferably means that only where it is not possible to carry out an activity with own resources is it lawful outsourcing." Well, I don't think that interpretation is relevant at all, because in everything it is possible to lend an activity with own resources. In everything, absolutely everything. Look, an extraordinary public work we can hire through a very complex work contract, with many millions, but the Administration can also fatten up its staff with its own staff to do it with its own resources! Look, in the past, there were road hauliers in the outlaws, who dealt with public works linked to communication infrastructures! Possibly, anything is possible, and there have been punctual models in history where everything was internalized. There has been, and surely still in comparative law there will be some country in which this is still the case: nothing is outsourced, nothing is in the hands of the market, because the market has disappeared, and everything the Administration does with its own resources. Therefore, everything is possible. So, as such an interpretation would be unreasonable, when the working conditions agreement says expressly, after using the adverb "preferably", it says expressly that the Administration will regulate the conditions of outsourcing (and therefore outsourcing is possible), because that interpretation that you pose I do not think can be done. It is not a logical, reasonable interpretation of this provision of the working conditions agreement. It doesn't fit. And that is why the agreement of instructions for working conditions was issued that came immediately afterwards, and it is the one that regulates the conditions for the outsourcing of services and for the contracting of services. The Government, I insist, as long as this framework is not changed, will continue to operate with it. And you say to me, "Well, why don't the existing bilateral cooperation forums, which are provided for in some working conditions agreements, be convened?". It is that, to note, among the assumptions that you mentioned, very heterogeneous among themselves, of the systematic use of outsourcing or privatization, it referred to the Eustat, a small episode that has recently existed in the institute of statistics. Note, it refers exclusively to the fact that, in a given year, a survey which was being carried out by the Eustat using its own resources, in a given year, was outsourced. Immediately thereafter, it was taken to the bilateral follow-up committee provided for in the Working Conditions Agreement to review issues relating to outsourcing, and it was the only year in which it was carried out. The unions filed their complaint, the Administration welcomed it, and there has been no further outsourcing from there. It is a one-year one-time episode, which is also due to very special circumstances that occurred that year. You have therefore cited very exceptional and very different cases, but you see that everything has its framework and explanation, which allow me to say, as I did at the beginning, that the Government is at all immersed in a systematic policy of outsourcing and privatization of services.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u60	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Number of points in theme list: "Ask the question, José Ramone Becerlo, together with Carolo, the parliamentary member of the Podemos to the head of Economics and Sub-Separations, about the settlement of Alpha Precision Casting Company." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u61	Egun on, counselor. Last November 28, the company Alfa Precision Casting announced an ERE for forty workers of its staff, and just ten days later it announced the judicial liquidation of the company. What role has the Basque Government played in this decision and in the fact that this company has ended as it will end?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u62	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief of departments and congressmen. Well, to your question, Mr Becerra, I have to answer that, as is customary, of course, in the course of the administration – and you certainly..., or you are supposed to know it, since you are a worker of the administration – the government has not intervened in any way in the adoption of this decision, in which it submitted its liquidation. Moreover, I have to reiterate, as on so many other occasions, that these decisions are the responsibility of the company, being the company workers, management team and property. We have therefore never intervened, nor have we intervened in the decisions taken in a company.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u65	Madam Counsellor, in your speech at the hearing where we asked you about the companies in crisis you said that there was a protocol for companies (you showed us), where you met the needs of companies when they had difficulties and followed up on many of them continuously. This is one of the companies that has received public aid because of its difficulties, it is part of a group that has such public aid, and that has received it in the past, and you also said at the time that these companies are being followed up. Following the 2012 creditors' competition of the Alfa group, a restructuring took place that led to the company's exit through a creditor agreement. In that creditor agreement, the public aid it had received (which was 5 million Socade, which made the government part of the company's ownership, and 3 million Ezten), due to a claim, was lost 40% in that creditor agreement, so that the 8 million public money became 4.2 million in various claims. Therefore, it is a private company, but not so much. It has been a company that has had a share of the property by the Basque Government until 2014, and today it is a company that has debt to the Administration, debts to the Government, debts to the Government's funds, worth 4.2 million euros. Therefore, the fact that it is closed or not closed has an enormous influence, not only on the workers, but also on the management of the public funds that have been allocated to that company. I must also say that, in that follow-up work that you have announced on more than one occasion through SPRI, you may have been concerned, for example, with the main problem that the company claims, which is the search for customers. They say they've lost customers. And I'm worried about one thing, and it's that they say that for only five days of staff strike that has caused the flight of clients that forces them to close. Good. In the restructuring of 2013 the workers went on to receive between 10 and 30 % less salary, and yet in 2015 three directors of the group distributed 2.3 million euros in terms of success premiums. With that money, with that 2.3 million euros, they would have been able to pay off the loan until 2020, which the company needed to remain viable. And we have here, as in many other closing processes, that the staff makes sacrifices while the management develops a mismanagement, and the consequence is that the staff that has made the sacrifices loses the job, while the management remains in its position. And what role do you, or your department, play in all this? What role are they going to play in recovering those public funds, those 4.2 million euros? Are you going to have an active intervention, or are you going to remain as passive as in other closures? Are you going to keep walking to the cliff, until the company closes and jobs disappear? Because the disappearance of this company will possibly involve the disappearance of the entire group, because it is the main company. And the reality is that if you appointed a competitive administrator representing the public interests (yes, because you are possibly the majority creditor) you could do an audit of all the irregularities that have been committed in this company over the past few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u66	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u67	Eskerrik asko, president and r her. Mr. Becerra, I love it when you come out to this rostrum to mix everything up and also try to confuse anyone. Starting at the end, the competition manager decides it by the judge, we do not decide it, nor do we propose it. Please, let's be a little strict! Let's be a little tough! Secondly, I wondered what influence the Government has had on the liquidation decision. None. None, because he can't have it. Another thing is that you have intended to mix that obviously this company has been followed up and we know perfectly well and are in collaboration with both the management team and talking to the workers. They're two really different things, and don't pretend to mix them. Alfa Precision Casting, by the way, comes from a contest, as you well said; with a creditor agreement, as you have also quoted... The five days of strike became fifteen in that locality, as they coincided with a bridge and Christmas festivities. Then it was five days that ended in fifteen days of break. This meant that at a certain point the company could not meet its debts and therefore requested liquidation, because it already comes from a tender and is in a creditor agreement. But the judge still hasn't accepted that liquidation. He has neither accepted such liquidation nor appointed a competition administrator. Then time to time, and we're going to go to work whatever we have to go to work. Secondly, at this moment, what does it have to do with us? The address... And I can agree with you on one thing you have commented on in this rostrum: that the distribution of dividends at such a critical time for the company may not have been the right decision. Maybe it could have been done differently. I agree with you on that. But we find ourselves at a time when it will already be in the hands of the judge and the competition manager to work. What do we have to do as an administration, as creditors who are on one side, as is banking and as are the workers themselves? Well, as we talked to them at the meeting this week, the search for the best possible solution, is working to make this company more viable for the most part. And you know as well as I do that this company has two areas of action, one of them in non-red numbers, let's say, with proven viability, and another area where viability is not so proven, in losses from the start of the exit. We are therefore going to work to ensure that this company is viable and that the largest number of companies is saved, as we have always done. And that's what we have to do. But at the moment, I want to insist, the company has asked the judge for the settlement; the judge has not yet pronounced, and has not yet appointed a competition administrator. If the competition manager allows us to work, because he has to give us authorization, the company asks us and the workers (who have done so) ask us, we promise, as always, to look for the best way out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 12th point in the theme list: The question is, "I'm asking the state of the APC company of the Casanova Alonso team members of EHGD" - "about the state of the APC company on the Alpha team." Mr. Casanova from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u69	Yeah. With your permission, to ask the same question, as it is about the same subject.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u70	Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u71	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Well, Mr. Casanova, the answer will be the same, but, in this case, I may as well insist, and therefore I may say something different in another language. Well, as I've said, it's always like that, and it's always like that, you know, that you don't have any part in the decisions made between workers and property. Therefore, in these decisions, we have not had any share in them. That doesn't mean that when the company's in trouble we know where this company comes from, because it's coming from a pre-cursion, it's not on top, it's like you know, and it's explained. But our commitment is always to find the best way out. But I want to make it clear: It's never a joke or a administration that guarantees the future. That's right, looking for a result or a task that can guarantee the future. That's our job, and that's what we're going to do, and that's what we're supposed to do and so it's agreed with the workers: To find a way out. We're not the solution, but we'll still find a way out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u73	Well, these days I've had a lot to do with Eibar, on account of this issue. The truth is that no PSOE voter marriage has stopped me on the street, as it seems to be very common, to give me your opinion on the political situation, but I have also seen other things that have come to me. Coming from another area also with a wide industrial tradition, right in front of Alfa's facilities, there is a large mural, erakusten dituena historian zehar hor bertan egindako producektu ezberdinak, Eibarren egindako producektu ezberdinak. Hor agertzen will say eskopetak, motorrak, txirrindulak... And right at the door of Alpha's door, there's this drawing: A sewing machine, which we all identify with the Alpha name. And unfortunately, if you don't see it coming up, I'll read it to you. "Alfa, respect for the workers." Unfortunately, Alpha workers are required to respect, and other things are required, including, to keep information around the state of business and the future, not to be traumatic if there is to be an exit, and also to make an intermediary of institutions for new investors, and to prevent speculation. Alpha has been, as I said before, one of the icons of euscal industrialization, which once became 2,000 workers, then 800, and last of all, even 200, has failed to reach, and has passed by process losing jobs. The workers have also lost, in recent years, a quarter of the bribe power, because wages from 2005 are frozen, and unfortunately the situation of Alpha is a reflection of what is happening in Ebaria and Debare: At the bottom, population is lost, but most of all, Eilei, 3000 inhabitants have been lost in the last 20 years, and perhaps 3000 does not seem much, but it's 10 percent of population. Let's imagine, EAE 225,000 people go to school in 20 years. A real catastrophe... And what lies behind it is the loss of the employment industry. Bari, at the time of official crisis, we've only passed from 2009 to 2,200 industrial jobs to 1500. Which means that 700 industrial jobs have been lost in the East, only in the last eight years, and that's a third of the total. And that's unbearable. And anyway, now that the crisis hits, I say, one of the icon of industrialization, I think we're all called to do everything we can, and I'm just wondering, because some things didn't have to happen here. And as we often say, when there is a bad management behind a bad situation, there remains a crack of hope, for by correcting this management there is a chance of the future. Because Alfa's management has been bad; because profitable companies of the group have been sold; because it has been distributed, as has been said before, when there were treasury problems, a bonus of more than two million among the managers, managers who have a cost of more than 100,000 euros per person per year; because this management has broken communication and relations with the workers; because they have not been honest and sincere with the workers; because they have given up investing and betting for the future of the company, and have limited themselves to making speculative management of the assets. So we think we need to find the future and not just talk about it all... In a positive feeling, in the section of aluminium or aeronautics, we must defend the whole of the company. Automation is powerful in our country, and we think it'll be possible to find an incorpore, to advance the automation section, because we owe it to Alpha because we owe it to Eibar and Debarrei. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u74	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u75	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. From behind, Mr. Casanova, you mentioned that Eibarian owes him and that this company owes the future, or that we owe the future, and I agree, and that's what we've been engaged to when we've somehow met with the workers last week at the conference we've had last Tuesday at Gibraltar. On the one hand, we'd transmitted two things to them that were important from our point of view. In a situation like this, it's important that there's a minimum of live activity to come in here and show that it's gonna continue and that it's guaranteed. And in that sense half of the workers, around 45 percent, are trying to guarantee that. And on the other hand, as we requested by the builders, and our intention is to make contact with him when he is called a concursor, as we always do, in order to present our disposition to him. What for? Well, to look for these investors because he goes with them. And it's our intention to find out, someone who's going to get the company out, and if it's possible to keep all the jobs, of course, that's what we're going to do. And if anyone has to pull it out without using the most traumatic measures and make it as good as possible. It's always our goal and in this case too, and it was our commitment to the workers: to spend information on one another, to be communicate, and to be able to guarantee the future of Alphas in some way. In this case, as you have mentioned, it's perhaps easier in aeronautics, more complicated in automation; but, well, when decisions are made, management is interesting. I think then that we have a conformity here, both with the labourers and the measures we ought to put in this case, which will be our business, as it has hitherto been, but now with greater force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "Interpologium, members of the Basque Barroj Barojic Group to the Chief of Education, Joseph Uruñuel dancing Conservatory, under the general staff of the House of Education." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u77	Thank you, President. Good morning again. Counsellor, this is going to be an inquiry that basically wants to be informative, in relation to the process that is being followed with something that we have already touched on, we have talked about, we have valued in this Parliament. The Conservatory of Dance José Uruñuela is known for its dedication to teaching, to the dissemination of dance, work to which it has been engaged since January 1987, offering the possibility of obtaining quality professional training. In addition, it assures young people of an official degree and recognition of their studies, encourages interest in dance in Euskadi, promotes the cultural placement of Vitoria at the level of European cities in relation to dance, among other things, and allows citizens to enjoy this professional or cultural and educational work as well. The benefits – I mean what we also see in issues that have to do with the website of the dance conservatory itself – that the professional dance conservatory brings to the Basque Country are many. As we said before, quality professional training in relation to dance (our young people ensure a degree and an official recognition of their studies), compatibility of dance studies and education in general, interest in dance in the Basque Country, the formation of future dance professionals (there is even talk about the future creation of a stable company)... They are laudable and important goals, but they have to have a well-established base. Dance professionals will not have to leave in order to exercise their profession, we will enjoy with their work and their successes, surely; in time some of them, of those professionals, will be good teachers... In short, I believe that they are important objectives and that they have an iter, a path that has been following for years. The student combines the studies of professional dance teaching with the ESO, in concerted hours tomorrow, and with the baccalaureate in night time. And the numbers are there, relative to the approximately 170 in different courses. The duration of dance studies is four years for elementary education, six courses for professional education, precisely for this quality training for the future professional within dance. We have presented this inquiry further recalling in the inquiry how three years ago the Education Commission approved the no law proposal on the future of the Municipal Conservatory of Dance according to the following text: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to recognize the 27-year heritage and professional trajectory of the Municipal Conservatory of Dance José Uruñuela de Vitoria-Gasteiz, consolidate the project of the future and guarantee its future". It seems that, well, so far, the Basque Government has made certain commitments... Well, let's see about consolidating the project and securing its future. Let's see it. The second says: "The Basque Parliament urges the Department of Education, Linguistic Policy and Culture to agree with the City of Vitoria-Gasteiz, within one year, an itinerary leading to the integration of the Municipal Conservatory of Danza José Uruñuela into the public network under the Department of Education, Linguistic Policy and Culture of the Autonomous Community" (at that time), "and thus assume its title, taking the necessary measures to do so". Well, this is what we want information about. It is true that last July the Government answered a parliamentary question, from Mr Estarrona if I do not remember correctly, and stated that the administrations continue to work. He said: "The Department of Education and the City of Vitoria are working together in order to establish a commitment between the two institutions, in order to resolutely promote the process of integration of the Professional Conservatory of Dance José Uruñuela into the network of public educational centers dependent on the Department of Education, as well as to promote the adequacy of the educational project of the center, ensuring the students of the Basque Country an educational trajectory from elementary to higher artistic dance teachings". Okay, that's what we already knew the government had to do. We already knew that. And he says: "To this end, and in order to fulfil the parliamentary mandate" (also another indeterminate legal concept, but good), "both administrations continue to work on the different aspects that make up the delivery of the dances of the Professional Conservatory of Dance José Uruñuela". Well, that was in July, that squeaky, rather untrue answer. Indeed, we may have made progress in these months, in addition to at a time like this one, when the educational community is working on future preparations for new courses and future courses. I know that it will be difficult for the next one to be like this, but in any case, we want to ask you what the Basque Government's intentions are in relation to the definitive integration into the public education network, demanded three years ago by the Basque Parliament, of the regulated teachings given by the Conservatory of Dance José Uruñuela. I suppose all these negotiations will not be easy, we will have to make a lot of points, but we have to realize that it will be good for everyone: it will be good for the students, it will be good for the teachers, it will be good for the education system, it will be good for the competences of the different institutions. And in that sense, we would like to say again that in this inquiry, which wants to seek information from the Basque Government, it could give concrete expression to some more elements of something that is part of a future that we expect imminent, in relation to the integration of the dance conservatory into the public educational network. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u78	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u79	Mrs. President of Parliament, chief of the department, members of the legislature. Good morning. First, I want to explain: which is the map of the teaching of the dance at the present day in Euskal Autonomy in Erria. The prescribed artistic instructions for dancing are given only at the Town Music School, at the basic level and in the professional level. There are no private centers in which this kind of discipline is given. For instance and for example, there are only musical schools that produce an irregular preparation. In this case, in artistic doctrines connected with music, students may take the following course: Of the elementary disciplines and professional teachings which are given in the public centres of this department, from the centres of the town, and from the private centres, to the higher classes of the Muses. Now, as far as artistic teaching is concerned with dancing, in the high school of the Euscadian Dancati, there is a degree of high rank, but only the teachings of a professional and professional order are given in a center of the public school of the town, at the Center of José Uruñuelus. Now it is proper to remember what is fundamental, professional, and high-level lessons are in our autonomy organization, and what is the basis of jurisdiction. The organization of elementary education is entirely within the competence of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, and is currently regulated by Decree 404/2013 of 30 August, establishing the curriculum of elementary dance education and access to such education. There is a wide range of legislation regulating the curricula of professional dance teaching in which I do not want to extend, but yes, by way of example, I would like to cite Royal Decree 85/2007 of 26 January, which sets out the basic aspects of the curriculum of professional dance teaching regulated by Organic Law 2/2006 of 3 May, on Education, or Decree 404/2013 of 30 August, cited above, or Decree 23/2016 of 16 February, which establishes the higher artistic dance teaching in the specialty of choreography and interpretation, and establishes the curriculum for the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. Since there was only one public centre that imparts these teachings, the curriculum was prepared taking into account the offer of the José Uruñuela centre, so the training offer focused on the classic dance specialty. The four students of elementary teaching, and the six apprentices of professional teaching, which are given at the center of José Uruñuela. The students usually make four elementary teaching students when they are on the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth steps of the First Education. The six apprentices of professional teaching, on the other hand, are made at four steps of the DBH and on the two steps of the Batxiler. Thus, after the end of professional education, they may study high school, in our case, Dantin. Dantzerti, the high school of dramatic art and dance, started at the year of study 2015-2016, and from that time onwards, apart from the specialty of dramatic art interpretation, there is also a dance choreography and interpretation. The study plan of this school has a chief characteristic, that it is the integral and multi-valued study, and moreover that at school, in a single speciality, classical or contemporary, they have almost the same quantum and quantitative importance. With an integrative vision, and in accordance with the reference legislation, to maintain consistency and complementarity with the already established dance curriculum, the department's first analysis has focused on analyzing – worth redundancy –, designing and proposing the revision of the center's curriculum. As a result of this diagnosis, the educational approach of the José Uruñuela centre should be adapted in such a way as to increase the hourly burden of the specialty of contemporary dance, without it being necessary to replace the current specialty, which is classical dance, considered as the best basic training necessary for the preparation of future professionals of dance. In this sense, five objectives are proposed for José Uruñuela's educational project as a result of the analysis carried out. The first of them, strengthening contemporary dance within the specialty of classical dance, the only specialty taught at the José Uruñuela Conservatory. In coherence and complementarity with Dantzerti's training offer, it would be desirable for contemporary dance to be strengthened in the context of a single specialty of classical dance, as is the case in other autonomous communities. The second objective, the creation of optional subjects, which would broaden the possibilities of choice, enrich the training offer and avoid the current rigidity. These optional subjects would serve to strengthen certain lines of work, including traditional-rooted dance, which would allow the content of certain subjects currently available and which could be indispensible to be transferred to this area from the optional subjects. Among the options of optional subjects identified are interpretation, which aims to move from being mandatory, as it is now, to being optional; contemporary repertoire, until now non-existent; choreography workshop 1 and 2, with four-monthly periodicity and with priority character, and traditional-rooted dances. The third objective is the search for greater internal coherence through the organization of cycles of two courses with the appropriate hourly distribution. The fourth, hourly adjustment, to rationalize the excessive hourly load of the student by ensuring a solid but sufficient training and capable of being assumed by a student who compatible with the general regime teachings, and, given its eminently physical character, fleeing from exhausting hours and compulsory hours of morning and afternoon, while encouraging the completion of these teachings. And finally the linguistic approach, which advances from the current Spanish monolingualism of teaching towards bilingualism in a progressive way. Currently the José Uruñuela centre imparts its teaching in Spanish; this situation does not correspond to the progressive demand for the euskaldunization of the educational system. Therefore, a progressive expansion of the offer should be proposed through the dual of classical dance from the first course, and contemporary dance from the third, in addition to the optional subjects of fifth and sixth. The traditional third and fifth dance would be conducted exclusively in Basque. Allow me to expand on the explanation and proposal of the curriculum of professional dance teaching in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and the fit of the educational project of José Uruñuela, because it is a basic element that determines both the teaching needs in relation to basic and vocational education and the adequacy of the teaching profiles that they provide or could provide such a curriculum, and the associated material means that should be planned for its development. Since the department received the mandate of this Parliament that you cite in your justification, meetings have been held with the officials of the Municipal Conservatory of Danza José Uruñuela, in order to make a better possible itinerary for its integration into the public network dependent on the department. Gai bear ezberdinak landu ditugu bilera horietan: azpiegiturak, egungo funzionimendu-plantilla, beharko of a template, proyektu pedagogikoa, beharrezko directen instrumentu juridikoak, hizkuntza-proiektua, Dantzerti proyektuarekiko lotura eta osagarritasuna... We ought, as I have said, to cultivate all these matters, and in this the different services of our department are employed by the officials and councils of the town council, Joseph Uruñuela.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u81	Thank you, President. Thank you very much, ma'am, counselor. All right, first part of the answer. The first part is that work is being done, work has been done, it is recognized that there is no regulated teaching more than that provided by the conservatory, there have been working meetings, it has been seen that there has been an analysis and a revision of the curriculum, it is necessary to address some modifications, increase the time burden... And we also identified in that previous analysis five objectives, which go in line with what will then be integration: strengthening contemporary dance, as you have said, with the special characteristics that you have commented, the creation of these optional subjects, no doubt, forming part of academic normality in the different types of studies, more internal coherence, indeed, time adjustment, linguistic approaches, both issues that have to do with, as you have also spoken, with the faculty, etc., etc., there is no doubt. So the Department of Education has already taken a step at least in contacting those meetings with the conservatory management, and it is an important step. And we already know, because we see it, that integration is going to be good for everyone: integration is going to be good in relation to what is based on this previous analysis, and what we all know, because that integration is going to favor students and their families. We are also talking about that at the moment the rates are very high, that it is possible that there may be at the moment a reduction... Well, it'll be technical issues. The faculty also seeks better professional and work recognition, and this integration seems to be an optimal element for that to happen. And the institutions, logically, will function in order of their competences: the Basque Government, competent in the field of education, ordering and encouraging and also being who assumes that competence and that center, and the council, not competent, being able to collaborate with the Department of Education in things that may be unregulated, but not with the ability and responsibility of having to address a regulated issue now, which are not strictly its competences. So here's the thing. But you have to answer to the second part of the inquiry, counselor, that I suppose something will tell us, regardless of whether you have had value what you have told us in the first part: calendar, deadlines, timetable, with what times you play... You will have spoken with the mayor of Vitoria, or with the management of the José de Uruñuela center, with his collaborators of the department... That is to say, when is the final integration going to start. In progress we can understand that it is; that is, that there has been such analysis and work. That is, when it is going to be, and when can you tell us that the Basque Government is going to proceed with that integration that was already demanded three years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u82	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u83	Mr Barrio, as I have moved you in my first speech, the integration process is not a simple process, and, as I said, meetings have been held with those responsible for the Municipal Conservatory of Danza José Uruñuela in order to define the best possible route for its integration into the public network dependent on the department. We have to see this complexity as an opportunity, not having a concrete model to reproduce and being the only center of the community where professional dance studies are offered. That is why the right steps must be taken to achieve effective integration. A key part of this process, once the definition phase of the centre's curriculum is advanced, is that of human resources planning and the adequacy of teacher qualifications. The regulations governing the conditions of qualification and specialization for the teaching of elementary and professional dance teaching are broad, and, to quote some of them, we have Royal Decree 428/2013 of 14 June, establishing the teaching specialties of the Body of Teachers of Music and Performing Arts linked to the teaching of Music and Dance; Royal Decree 899/2010 of 9 July, declaring certain official documents equivalent to the qualifications referred to in article 96.1 of the Organic Law 2/2006 for the teaching of elementary and professional dance teaching established by that Law; Royal Decree 303 of 2010, establishing the minimum requirements of institutions providing artistic education regulated by Organic Law 2/2006, on Education; or Decree 404 of 2013 of 30 August, quoted above, establishing the curriculum of elementary dance teaching and access to such teaching. "E el análisis de la climacion del prostodo actual ioque también se ha relamado." "Quumple los requistos estableides la Normiva bási, en líneas generales." But the greatest problem is that it's the language skills of teachers. In this sense, it is proposed to make a plan for the preparation of language under the same conditions as all the professors of the IRALE and ARABILE. The replacement of professors who are being trained would be a responsibility to the gang of the IRALE. From the point of view of the planning of human resources, we should form a list of all the positions which belong to our modern teachers, and to fit them every year according to their need for language-profiles and specialities. As a result of retreats, diseases, IRILEs, and other reasons, the lists must be opened to the classic dance and contemporary dance in specialities, so that there are enough professors to cover up the gaps and replacements. As you will see, it is our greatest interest to study with great detail all the elements necessary to afford the best public projects in the Basque Country, and to attach the project to the Basque High School as closely as possible. Finally, the question that Joseph Uruñuel had made about the future of the center was given to him in July, as he had mentioned in answer to the complexity of the trial, in order to enable Joseph Uruñuel to promote the process of integration into public schools under the Board of Education, in order to establish an engagement between the two institutions, the Board of Education and the Society of Vittoria. We also want to encourage the education project to-day. It's an educational career for students from Basque Autonomy to the upper class from the basic dance lessons to the higher arts.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. fourteen points in theme list: "Interpologies, members of the Ubeka Aranz and EH Team members of the Union for the head of Education, the project of the Education Department of the Road and the BHI. " Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u85	Well, first of all, I'd like to say hello to the representatives of high-school education, which have come up from Donostia to Gastize, and to thank them, and to thank them for all the work they're doing in defence of the public school. Today, Mrs. Uriart, we'd be grateful if you could explain what plans the Board of Education has around the Central High School. On November 14th, we found out through media, 2019-20 of study, that the Board of Education was planning to close that institute. But it's true that during this week other information has also been displayed in the media, and that the Board of Education seems to have stepped back in its closure. But it is true that for the time being the information we have in hand is very opposite. And you will understand, in the presence of these information, that uneasiness is increasing, and that the impatience of scholars, parents, and students of the school is severe, and that in this uncertainty a whole community of education is not fair. As a matter of fact, when we got the information about the closures, we thought it would be convincing. And why? Well, you see, even Donostian, what's going on with public school... That's where we got Orife, Knowledge, now the Road. We do not know whether it has been a coincidence, or whether the Board of Education is trying to wager for public schools, and to encourage privatization, when it is the principal object of this government to guarantee the public education to all citizens, to prefer and guarantee public education; in short, to all the people, who are the characteristics of education. By making a little history, it must be said that the history of the "pathetheal school" has been a matter of course. In the '80s the neighboring neighbourhood was very beaten, but in those days the high school had the power, it had cyclones, it had a stroke of night, but it had gradually gone out of the way. It was a center of model A, but the D-Bus was turned around, and the first level of DBH is a model D. It is true that it is a college with many immigrants, where there are many students exempted from eucalyptus. Do you remember, by the way, the discussion about the decree to be exempt from the eucalyptus? Well, I think it would be interesting to cancel this decree and go back to the state of 2009, which is another discussion, but all this has its effect in everyday life. So that when we often speak here in general, when these weak schools have peculiar characters, this is one of the examples, and when we say that we must strengthen them, that is to say, another example. Until now, this school has received its pupils from Mountola and the Mother of Charmen, but the students of the Mother of Carmen have not received them any more than three years ago at that school where DBH was opened. But then the delegate from Gipulia came to the college, met with the direction, and told them that it would be a school of the Second Education in the Middle Way of the Low Line, if you knew that he had two buildings to unite, that a work would be done, and that it would be given a turn to the school. And they understood and understood it as the end of a stage and as a moment to start a new stage, and as a bet. But in the end he stayed in the same place. We know that the project has been written, and if we are not mistaken, the assignment of that work is absent, and for years it has not been made. And as normal, the community thinks it was a trick, a trick of that moment. It's true that there's been some complications in the license plate, and it's true we're going to hide from them that the opening of the Mother of Karmen's Education has affected it, but they've been at the high school on the roads where the time was smaller than the license. So, to put all the data on the table, Mrs. Uriarte. It is true that teachers are involved, and they are ready to take several measures, and that if I'm not with you, I'm not with you, but at the same time they're asking for the implication of the Board of Education, that there's an engagement and an explanation on the side of the whole, and that there's a bet on the Way school, a bet on the public school. But at the moment the only data we've got in hand is that at the year 2018-2019 study there can't be measured on the first level of DBH and the first level of the Batxiler; that is to begin with the information we have on the table. Well, it's a matter of fact: The Board of Education has a responsibility, and it's the responsibility of the Board of Education, it's the responsibility, it's the responsibility, whatever the social, economic, cultural position of the people is... it is necessary to guarantee the right of education to all. Yeah? And that's from a high-quality education project. To achieve the cohesion that is often spoken of, to obtain an inculation, to make society advocacy, to make a worthy project of life for all men to acquire capacity, and we think that we might have a fair chance to turn around the neighbor of the roads, to encourage the college... And close a stage, and start a new stage. And, as we often mention, Rhodorus is not only an investment, but how he invests: Consider the properties of the neighborhood, consider the characteristics of the schools, and let's go to meet a project in that neighborhood to strengthen that neighborhood school. It seems to us, at last, that it is a matter of will, that it is a question of preference, and that it is uncertain whether to stake or not in favour of the public school in the neighbourhood. So please report this today, and all of us know what this Board of Education's project is around the Central High School.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u87	Mrs. Groundpresidete, chief of departments. Mrs. Ubera, first of all, I'd like to explain the context of precedents and school-maps as regards the Wayway and Institute, even to complete yours. In these precedents, there have been more influence than the course of the school, such as these elements of which I shall hereafter mention: In the city of Pasadena, on the side of Donostia, there is only one public school in Child Education and the First Education, some years ago, Mother HHHHHHHI of CEIP Karmen. After 20 years of school-map, 1996, where the second course of education was established at the Estate Road at 500 yards away from Pasadena, there was a special education within the township. First of all, you must place yourself in the physical context of the Pasadena Bay. There are three elements separated (passia, Anchoo and Donibane), which prevents communication: Illiability, geographical objections, and system-attentions. To improve and facilitate the public offer, the peculiar state of the surrounding public network, and the surroundings of Pasadena, the sodemae, Anchochus, and Donibane, have been examined several times, considering all these parties. In passing, the Second Education did not enter the public offer, which caused the perpetual dispersal of the students to be dispersed, and to other offerings and other fields: Mostly Lezo, Redteria, and Donostians. Among other reasons, the offer in Pasadena was mentioned in its time, since it had no accurate and precise application and orientation, that it was limited and unconsequent to the majority of families. On the other hand, most of the families didn't choose the Avenue Institute. The Society for the Mother of Carmen, the Director of the School, and all the Institutions (for the Orders, and the Public) had revealed the need which the families had brought about the avenue and its development. The Board of Education agreed at the meeting on the 22nd of October 2014, the other proposal, like 156/2014, to ensure the public offer of mandatory education in the land of Pasadena. In short, the proposition says: "The U.S.P.A. wants to guarantee the public offer of mandatory secondary education in the past, in order to ensure that he can follow his educational career in his township. So that Karmengo's First Education School became an IPI school and offered the entire career of necessary education." And he pushed this and signed it. Again and again they were told that it was very difficult to establish a secondary education for the volume and for the use of its nearest sub-varieties. In the course of the year 2016-2017, a real and viable proposition was made which answers the interest of the College of the Mother of Carmen's Education, and the time for the first official license plate of the Second Education was opened. During this course the main news was to have the public DBH for the first time and the only offer in the D-ray to keep them in new licenses. The school also took a new official name, because the Mother IPI of Carmen, the Integated Public Hospital, is directed to the two-16-year-old students of public education. In the case of the IES Bidebieta, the circumstances that have resulted in the current situation are basically caused by the configuration of the Bidebieta neighbourhood: a medium-high age area in a multi-urban, borderline and transitable environment between Donostia, Pasaia and Errenteria, with the possibility of choosing the center that this entails, and the fact that the drop of the birth is leading us to an already excess of offer of school places in all environments. There are places in schools and many schools around, which causes families to have a wide spectrum to choose from. In addition, it must be borne in mind that the current educational offer of the IES Bidebieta depended on part of the confluence of Karmengo Ama students to attend compulsory secondary education, in addition to the centre with which it currently shares the itinerary, the CEIP Mendiola, which has an average access of around ten students maximum. After several performances throughout different courses at the IES Bidebieta, and with evidence in each enrolment period that the transition from the student to the center was ever smaller, taking into account the total possible enrolment in his itinerary, an attempt was made to strengthen and support a project so that the center would not be involved in a situation in which the student would basically proceed from the schooling beyond the deadline. To this end, various efforts have been made from both the centre's management and the Planning Service of the Gipuzkoa delegation to improve the image and maintain the offer of these last courses, with the aim of making the centre attractive to families in the Bidebieta neighbourhood. In this regard, meetings have been held to attract families from the environment, the improvement of sports facilities has been carried out, and the unification of the whole supply of ESO and Bachiller has been proposed and initiated in the same building, co-hering with the whole supply. On the other hand, analyzing the educational itinerary on which the IES Bidebieta is located, we have the CEIP Mendiola, by Haur eta Lehen Hezkuntza. This centre is located in the Bidebieta district between the two buildings that complete the facilities of the IES Bidebieta. They are two hexagonal: in the first there is Infant Education and the majority of Primary Education, and the second building is shared with the CRI. In this course are 94 the total of students in the center, and all groups of model D. It does not reach an average of ten students per level, which would be the potential student for IES Bidebieta. On the other hand, the IES Bidebieta develops its activity in two different buildings. The main building of Serapio Múgica, which contains the Bachillerato facilities, currently four groups (two of model A and two of model D). There are 74 students enrolled. And in the yellow building of Julio de Urquijo is the mandatory stage of Secondary Education. Currently, students are enrolled throughout the stage and in the language models B and D. This course is divided into 96 students in seven groups. From this beginning of the course the territorial delegation has had an open dialogue and has been holding a series of meetings with the centre's management to analyse all the issues relating to the possibilities of continuity of the centre, its concrete situation today, and its forecasts for the next courses. Analyzing the situation from the current parameters, the delegation carried out a technical analysis in which difficulties were detected so that the demand for enrolment in the center for the 18/19 course would exceed ten students, when the minimums for the ESO are 17 students to open group. In this scenario, the possibility of a gradual and orderly closure was raised, in the sense that none of the groups involved were injured. Of these parameters of lack of students to form a group for the 18/19 course, and seeing the moment as an opportunity to relocate to teacher and student satisfaction, the delegation proposed to present this plan to the cloister of teachers and the maximum body of representation of the center, an issue that was held at the meeting on 15 November 2017 in the center itself. Although technically these results could lead us to push or propose this gradual closure of the centre, this government (we, my department) is clear in our commitment to the impulse to the Basque public school. The cold figures can set us a direction, but here, in addition to the numbers, we must take into account many other factors. To return to this state, I think we must consider all the possibilities, though we know that it has objective difficulties, as we have said before. But if we really want to give the high school another chance through a project filled with illusions, it is absolutely necessary that the intervention of all the agents who form the school is not just the administration. This is why we have already begun to push together a number of meetings and contacts with these agents, to examine the present situation among them, and to see if a new education project can be created in the roads. It is necessary to encourage an strategic project, together with the education unit, which will mark the direction of the school and be attractive to the families. I insist, we believe, that all possibilities for reversing the situation must be analysed, despite the objective difficulties it poses because of the factors mentioned above. But if we want to give it a chance and create an exciting project, it is necessary and essential to involve the centre and the whole educational community, not just the Administration, which of course we are committed to. That is why we have promoted a series of meetings and contacts with the actors involved, for everyone to analyse the current situation and the possibility of promoting a new educational project in the IES Bidebieta.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u89	Mrs. Uriart, if you close the gate again, you will see that you don't bet for public school, because the plan you've made here is that the public school is to compete with public schools. All right, all right. Let us pass through public schools, but why does it have to compete with the public schools of other neighborhoods? You do all this for private good, and it's your duty, it's your priority, to guarantee the right of education for everyone, a public offer of quality. I want to understand, in that re-entry you've dropped at the end, that you're really going to study it deeply, and that you're going to set up the whole educational community, the highways, the students, the teachers. They are prepared to encourage a social education project, as they have hitherto done without the help of the Board of Education, and without any complication. And what we want to ask of you is not to close the road and bet on the public and the neighbourhood, because there are many pretexts here: it's true that there's a school map, a nsection down there, a number of others... But often, I think, it is always in your mind that macro schools, macro schools, and perhaps instead of pushing on these macros, we must push home-schools, smaller lines, and often a project of high-quality education-a much more personal education, that is, a much more personal education, that led to the education of the student.... These local schools give this opportunity to develop a project of this kind, to encourage cohesion, to promote inculcation, to force it really to resist it, to set it really to the value of multiplicity. They just give you a chance to make an investment in the roads and develop a project like that. We know the resources are limited, but we have often told you that all schools do not need schools at the same level with the resources; And then, it's kind of a coincidence or not, but there's no resources for some, and then everything goes private and you concentrate on the private. Why don't you place the first squares in public and public? That's your responsibility, because here in the end, slowly, we must become a privilege of education, just as Secretary Wert claims, and as the law that has started it seeks it. It seems to me that such a crisis allows me to close a stage, open a new stage, and, with all the complications, to encourage attractive projects. We assume that this neighborhood needs it. and that we should all have an explanation, professors and teachers. And the teachers are ready to do that, to make a new attractive project, and to arrange what they need to do. The parents are ready, the students are ready, then I feel that there are conditions. So three years ago, the center of the commissionation had been placed on the table... it may be possible to put it in motion. If I'm not mistaken, the project is there. Then let's go and develop that project, and in the meantime, to recite a special education project among all of us. And that's what I want to ask you to bet on the public school, to bet on the Road, not to close the roadway, to the neighbor of the roads, because it's finally to bet on the side of the people.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u91	Ms. Ubera, they're not excuses, they're the reasons for our present situations, and I don't know, it seems that sometimes you don't hear what I say right. As I said in the first round, it is necessary to encourage a strategic project with the education unit, which will mark the new path of high school, and be attractive to families, but also for teachers. And it's only work that solves nothing, as a whole. For this purpose, on December 5th, a meeting was arranged with members of the college board, to recognize their point of view directly, to discuss the proposals that can be made together and put back to the situation in motion. The centre's management presented the history of the centre in recent years, highlighting, among others, the implementation of the compulsory secondary stage in Karmengo Ama de Pasaia, from which part of his studenthood came, and the consequences he had entailed for the IES Bidebieta. This is what I have already explained: why the state in which it seems to them to have been in a certain degree. Compliments of education in the gym are acknowledged to have acted with positive behavior in these courses, as well as in the number of professors directed to the roads. Several possibilities were examined, such as a new school map, to guarantee the teaching of eloquent patterns, to make improvements in internal management, or to have an attractive offer. It's obvious that the neighborhood deserves a public social school of quality and that it requires family complications so that the license plates will rise. In the same way it is obvious that family complications are obtained if teachers are combined with a strong and agreed educational project. In the event that we bet on the continuity of this centre (and we do, but we need it to be among all), I would like to reiterate that it is essential that a strategic project be developed with the educational community that marks the path of the institute and offers a model that is attractive enough and proper for students from other areas to come to the center. At the present day, several institutional projects are developing and developing for educational aid, which offer direct assistance to students who have a special problem with learning. The following are projects and programs: Buddy: as in other schools, the professors appreciate this project. It's a natural education fund project. Language-based programs. Relative diffusion: As you know, this program is necessary in order to ensure that students who won't pass the Batxiler will end with the DBHA. Special language needs: it is a college that has had many pupils, and its aids to them. Language abnormal: the subject has been carefully cultivated, and the co-ordinationor has reached the seminaries of the Donostian news center. Language project: They've gone pretty far, and they'll probably end up in this year's study. And they've also made plans for improvements due to diagnosis, and then they've been introduced into the school project. Other arts have also contributed to the arts, and others to the arts; Math in the field: In certain studys the mathematicians have gone to a seminar to study and apply the GeoGree program to the study of mathematics. Even then, Edwardo Chillida is a part of the Olympic mathematics. Even so, some years later, they participated in the Batxiler Math Olympian, and once they get their first prize. They've been taking part in the global training equipment recently. The selected ranges have been completed with a digital competition and a precautional development field of methodlogs and state states. I mean, there are possibilities. The Administration's commitment to boost the new educational project of IES Bidebieta is clear. Also, to be an attractive, exciting and successful project, and in turn viable, the involvement of the entire educational community is necessary. We share the need to define an educational project for the IES Bidebieta, which is attractive to the families of the neighborhood and which can meet the needs of schooling, responding to educational expectations. In conclusion, I would like to make it clear that from the department we are going to support and make available all the means necessary for public institutions to have adequate projects to guarantee educational supply, with special effort in those in more adverse situations. Our public school deserves this, as in the case of Bidebieta, to think once and whenever it is necessary to equip itself with a new future, but for this it will obviously be necessary, in addition to having the necessary student, that the educational community itself decides and is involved, where appropriate, in this work.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 15th point in the theme list: "Interpology, written by the staff of the Migenus Ruiz de Gauna EH Collector, to the head of the Board of Education, in order to develop the six recommendations which the European Committee makes of high-class education." Lady Trouble is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u93	Good morning, and thank you. About a month ago, the European Committee examined the future of Europe, and even made a new proposal in the direction of the space of Europe in the school of 2025. He examined the future of education and culture, and concluded that both are indispensable to the production of employment, economic growth, social justice, and European personality, ever from multiplicity. And even if the European Committee grant the purpose of free circulation from citizens and workers, it admits that there are obstacles in education, and determines the end. 2025. To the year of study, or study of boundaries, they determined that they were not obstacles to study, and, on the other hand, to be extremely common to learn, to study, to study, or to work in another country. To make the space of Europe come to reality, several projects must be completed, and this is what we wish to know: 'What's the meaning of 'Erek' about these things, knowing that it's only been a month and that we're talking about thoughts and intentions. That's what we want to know, because we're gonna have time to connect and go to more precise things. To begin with, to be able to adapt to mobile life, is one of these ends for everyone. He started the Erasmus program 30 years ago and participated in that program, too. Looking at the two years before us, Europe is planning to participate in more persons in the Erasmun+ program, and it is also to facilitate the partnership of the schools. We'd like to know if it's a problem here and if there's any definite purpose in the case. A long-range motion is also to be pushed into the Erasmus Pro program, and we'd like to know what's going on around it. There is also another part of it which simplifies the rules and facilitates the administrative procedures. It is planned that this is an indispensable plan to attain the acts of Erasmus+. We know that your rating is the same as that which is or is intended. And for the year 2019, the e-mail card of the students in European Union, in which the data transfer is designed to facilitate and make it easier for the use of services, and in which the plates will appear: learn to make it easy to use the whole or online library. The next year the work will be completed, and if you have any intention of it, we would like to know. There is also talk of a mutual recognition of degrees or diplomas with the launch of a new process, following the Bologna process, which is the Sorbonne process, to prepare for the mutual recognition of higher education and graduation diplomas. Following the completion of the Bologna process and the adaptation of credits to the FTS, which facilitates this recognition, the European Commission's reflection is that this system has not yet been completed, despite the fact that the European Qualifications Framework was also launched in 2008. It is established that there is already a mutual recognition of degrees, masters and doctorates, but that there are still problems for different students, mainly high school students. And we would also like to know the analysis of the Government, whether it is being a problem, whether it is being a problem for the Secondary School, whether it is being a problem for the universities of the Basque university system, whether there is a possibility of direct dialogue, or whether the current structure of four plus two in the process or not may be a problem. Even at the time when we develop the plans of study, we plan a greater cooperation. We find this interesting too. If we compare Lomce with the education plan which is made in Europe, it is clear that what is planned by Lomc is completely old, backward, and above all unseasonable; It is public at the beginning of the next year, in January, that the recommendations of great abilities will be laid upon the table: reading, languages, science, technology, mathematics, digital ability, personal capabilities. I don't know whether you have any predictions about it, or what it is, because, looking at 2025 years, it will allow us to compare with the curriculum above the frontier, and new purposes will also be established for the basic capacity. We would like to know my opinion and my plans if you're on the plane, and above all, how you rate the movement of the students towards ease. Also, with regard to language learning, there is an improvement, setting as a new reference for 2025 that all young Europeans who complete the second cycle of Secondary Education must have a two-language domain, in addition to their mother tongues. It also states that teachers must be supported, by multiplying the number of teachers participating in the Erasmus+ programme and in the eTwinning network, which is the online platform for teachers, and that especially in the case of teachers who provide different languages, they can communicate, collaborate and develop projects. We don't know if they have data on the current participation of teachers in the network, or what is also the bet that is made by this eTwinning network. Yesterday there was precisely a debate on this issue, and in May 2018 it has been made public that the recommendations on improving language learning in Europe will be made, which will also be taken into account from childhood levels to how to achieve the final goal of the two languages in Secondary Education. A reflection. And, as noted in the 2013 report of Languages in Education and Training, in the comparison between different countries, the reflection is also that, although the dedicated time seems to be the right one, not so the levels of competition acquired at the global level. The main aim is to increase the efficiency of language teaching by incorporating innovative methods and also digital tools, where possible. We have also seen the possibility of developing pilot projects for bilingual education in cross-border areas, where people speak more than one language, and the possibility of participating in it or alongside Ipar Euskal Herria is also being considered by the Basque Government. It's also planned to learn for the rest of your life. And this is 2025. it is also intended for a year to reach 25 percent of people. In Europe, only 31% of people participate in life's instruction, and it was considered as a purpose for 2020 at least 15 percent, but it has not been succeeded. In this section also the data of early school extraction is included, and for 2025th year the goal is 5%. In 2016, even the digital skills projected in the year, and at this moment it is tested that 40% of Europe has no basic digital skills. And when you look into the future, it's also planned that, in the future, it will be approximately 90% of work, or one degree of skill or other. I don't know what plans, what thoughts, what opinion, are yours. The creation of European university centres is also envisaged, so that world-class European universities can work together, seamlessly, across borders. Cross-border cooperation actions have been developed. We also have Erasmus Mundus Masters running here, and there's a job done. There is also some added approach from the Basque Government. Finally, there is the point of investing in education. It is also raised in the Commission's reflection, as a reference, that Member States should invest 5% of their GDP in education. This is the current average, 5% of Member States' investment in their education systems. But, despite what is being said from the Community, or even though we are told that 5%, and also despite the fact that the Community of Euskadi is the most invested community, we are still far below these recommendations. I would also like to know if there is any reflection on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u94	Thank you, ma'am. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u95	Mme. head of the table. Mrs. Collins is, as you know, the view of the European Committee is that in Europe the responsibility of education and culture is principally applicable to the members of the community, although the significant function of the provinces in Europe is acknowledged, and likewise the function which the Companion of the Companion in several areas is fostered by the Companion in the higher education, which is the object of the interpelration. I confess that the European Committee has had the important function of administrative duties in education during years, especially in the above limits. Thus, in the course of the 30 years, it has been known that in the course of the Axus program, the "Exmus+" is now called "Exanady, Nine million persons in another country, especially in Europe, in learning, training, teaching, or volunteering activities have been performed. Even in the decades past, the European Union developed certain flexible political tools to help the members of the community design their educational policy. Thus, from 2000, in the field of education and preparation that the members of the state establish their objectives and their indicators, they are working with me for the European co-worker. The European Committee has lately declared that the time has come to extend its ambitions in the social, education, and culture of Europe. To direct this reform, and to refresh the discussion in the context which Europe plans for its future, President Junker, in his speech on the 13th of September 2017, proposed a series of careers, in order to obtain Europe more united, more powerful, and more democratic. Then, as you know, the European Society united on November 17th, Göteborgen, where the European leaders of the States were called to strengthen the identity of Europe by education and culture. Thus, in the discussion of the future of Europe, the European Committee has presented an announcement for this purpose, and has received a view of the manner in which to advance and to produce the university area of Europe in 2025. But I want to point out that this is not only the high-level education field, but you also mentioned it, for this has long been the object of attention and development. It includes the whole system of education, but, as you have placed it in your justification, I am alone in high-school education. I agree with the European owners: To Europe, it is of all men's interest to take advantage of the power of education as the principal cause of future social change, which leads us even in the most charming Eucatacies. It may be the motive for helping us to penetrate into the identity of Euscadi and Europe, which involves the origin, the economic growth, and of course social justice. Jyrki Katainen, Vice-President of the European Commission and Commissioner for Employment, Growth, Investment and Competitiveness, and Tibor Navracsics, Commissioner for Education, Culture, Youth and Sport, have recently declared the need to make a collective effort to advance the future development of Europe, but both have also pointed out the remaining obstacles to progress in this direction, as is the case with the mobility of people also in the field of education. In his opinion, by 2025 we will live in a Europe whose borders will not be an obstacle to learning, studying or investigating, but the norm will be to go to another Member State to study, learn or work. As I say, these are recent words from leading European leaders. Now, as it was at first, the discussion of the future of Europe is in the middle of the line, and the social organisation of Europe is one of the essential subjects of this dispute. As you know, Europe is one of the most direct and exclusive societies in the world, and has strong social systems which have impelled economic recovery in recent crisis. Moreover, this consideration of the future of the European Union is intimately connected with the force and diversity of our European identity, considering that these are the keys of the development of the present and future of Europe. As I said earlier, the competences of the European Commission are limited in establishing educational policies, and their scope is limited to supporting cooperation and complementing educational policies promoted by the relevant administrations, for example by funding programmes such as Erasmus+ or Horizon 2020. Well, the conclusions of the Gothenburg meeting on education and culture have yielded six suggestions linked to what the Commission understands to be key policies for Europe and which must now be the subject of reflection and strategic guidance by the competent administrations, and so we take them. And that means that the European Commission has proposed to launch a process that adds a European vision to the educational field in its entirety. Well, I have to say that this government shares the view of the Commission of Europe that social policies, both educational and cultural policies, should be given priority. And I must also say that our legislation on education, as far as higher education is concerned, has a significant impact on this European vision. The 2004 law of the Basque University System incorporates in its preamble the integration of the Basque university system into the European system of higher education, as a reference framework and mobility space for workers and professionals. That Basque law of 2004 addresses the key points of your strategic thinking, both the mobility of people (now known as Erasmus+) and teaching in other languages, the equalization or approval of higher education degrees throughout the European economic area, the financing of the Basque university system, and also a new design of learning as an idea that overcomes face-to-face teaching and even curriculum teaching. In short, this law lays the groundwork for the development of the Basque university system, of its universities, in the European context, in order to respond to the challenge of modernising and social transformation of Basque society. At this point I must say that the strategic planning generally requires a deep process of reflection, and that the plan of our university, briefly enough, reaches many points in recommendation of the European Committee. Due to the education and investigation of the university, in 2018, the Board of Education has made a clear and strong wager of the vast budget of Esscal University and other agents 412 million dollars, so that the 2017 year has increased 2,5%. In this chamber, as I have elsewhere observed, due to high education, the Board of Education, which I direct, has made five commitments to this legislation, with a clear European point of view; To develop the basic science and research policy and promote talent; to advance the development of Euscal University University, which has the ability to adapt the management of the results to the new global environment, to respond to the future roots of the Basque Society in that environment; to wager for the international dispersal System, to strengthen the policy, and to promote the university companies programs. Well, I'm just trying to tell you that we've taken care of the exact facts that agree with these strategic furrows. In order to finish this first intervention, I would like to say that the vision of the Basque Government is that we must defend the competences granted to us in the field of education by the Statute of Gernika, and develop them fully within the framework of an equally European vision of our educational model, that is, in a framework of collaboration with the European context. And this is certainly the starting point, and it will continue to be our guide, of our future policies for action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Lady Trouble is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u97	Well, as I have said in the question, I am also convinced that a few months has passed, and that I did not require a great degree of specification, but a general thought, especially a purpose, because we want to make a shared reflection. I don't think there would be too much difference whether we agree with the ends, because they're pretty clear and I think for everyone's sake. And then it's more important to see what's going on, how we can move forward or what we can do. This is a very interesting place to think about. At least I'm convinced that we're going to limit this space to the quality of our colleges, almost to college, or high education, of their quality. I believe, however, that there will always be space for improvement, and above all, in what direction we must place it. When it has been proposed to the European Union, or to the European degree, that there are only ten of the world's best Universities which are placed in Europe... It is a great deal to say, and not only according to what was happening, but because there are many of them in a country which will soon be removed from the European Union. And it's important to know what education we want for, even what is high-level education, and what an investment we want to make and how to place it in. I think it's easy to join in this: why it is necessary that this consideration should be made at this moment, or what reasons it is for. We live in a world which is much changing, not only what kind of citizens we want to be, but, if we turn to work, how much will be changed in the future. It seems to me at the present day that those who are students will work in the schools in the professions which have not yet been produced, and therefore it will be of great importance from this consideration, what sort of education we desire. Even the university must have more and more flexibility to answer such hinges. And then the intention of planning is again: It is not so much today, after a month, as the process of reflection, considering that the university Plan is soon to be placed on the table, and considering the data or the direction we move. Hence we shall inquire more or more closely, but, for instance, in mobiles, where the number of students who are engaged in sharing in them in the next two years is intended to double them. Well, from here, too, what's there to do? Perhaps here, too, the multiplication is not logical, because, from the numbers we started, it is not possible for us to double, but to increase, and for this reason, the scholarships have increased, for instance, or how we will increase, connected with the STEM, and especially the presence of the woman who is present: The ladies, too, would be more and more interested in it. We find it important in that, even with new languages, how we plan to act. Here we speak with great ease of language, considering that most of those who speak of it are not eloquent, and without knowing exactly what he is asking of so many and so many of these people. And I think, from this point of view, that things can be seen with a different perspective, though I am convinced that the ends which come into being can be attained. It is a matter of thought how they can be achieved, and by what means. And we should reflect deeply, too, on what language we see TVs or things, or how we see our products. I think it's a plan that goes beyond education, but we'll have to act at some point or another. There's so much to talk about studying for life. And I think we don't know for a while, but there's another point in the Board of Education. Besides, when there's a kind of paradox, there's the most people in the world who share in the forms, too, in the process of formation... Well, we'll have to make an offer for them, we'll have to make an offer for all of them, considering the changes in the work world... Well, whatever kind of participation we'll be in, like college, and that will always be connected with the investment and this plan at the end. To-day, as I have said, it is nothing so particular, a conjecturing of thought, and I think we shall continue to do so.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u98	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u99	Yes, ma'am, I agree with what you say: it is a convenient moment to think. And, for example, college's the new plan ahead of you, among other things. As I said to you, I want to show that we have taken up with the exact facts that agree with those of the strategic furrows I have just mentioned: One, we've been reinforced by phone scholarships, so we've almost doubled up 50 percent to fund them. Through this extra funding, we will help the larger number of students, which will guarantee choice, justice and equality, so that we will bet on the international policy, which is highly adapted to the activity of the students, in accordance with our commitment to strengthen the internationalization of the Basque University system for this legislation. I mean, we've already taken steps to strengthen the first of the strategic suggestions of the European Committee in 2018. That's why we've increased the funding for the student movement inside the Erasmus+ program. The planet of our university develops even the aim of increasing the education of college in non-official languages, so that students can have more language in official languages than in other languages, especially in English. The framework of the European Higher Education Area supports the approval and wide recognition of university degrees, although in this area our competences are limited and it is not possible for specific legislation to address this issue in a unique way. But I must say, however, that we are working together with Unibasq on the development of dual university education, drawing up and presenting on 28 November the dual mention in university education. And Unibasq is promoting in ENQA a working group on dual European university training, which is positioning us again, in the European context, in a new and very attractive area for society. This is the second of the strategic axes that the European Commission points out. On the other hand, as I said in my appearance on the budgets, the way forward in the development of the Basque university system towards excellence is to ensure funding that reaches the structural, objective-based and competitive parts. The strengthening of the Basque university system on its path to excellence comes from a medium- and long-term perspective, through funding directed both to the universities that make up the system and to other actors that directly relate to this objective. These agents include the BERC, the Ikerbasque Science Foundation, the competitive programs associated with the promotion of research in excellence, or the Euskampus Campus of Excellence. All of them programmes with a clear European vocation. The actions which have been received in the contracts of 2018. The actions of the Education Department and the 2015-2010 University Plan are the end of the three systems agreed on by the Three Universities which compose the Eascal System. It must be said that this plan agrees entirely with the six strategic axis on your question. Compliance with the actions agreed through the funding collected in the 2018 budgets will be key to the final evaluation of this University Plan. With regard to working for universities, I would like to highlight the commitment to promote university-enterprise programmes. This strategy has a direct reflection on the 2018 budget through the programme contracts, as well as an additional budget in 2018 amounting to EUR 600,000 and supporting the development of this strategy. In this regard, the implementation of dual and i-dual degrees, as well as the transfer of knowledge to society, will be encouraged. And I would like to underline the i-dual degrees ("i" of international). In other words, we will bet on the internationalisation of these qualifications also in the European context. Finally, I would like to highlight a new heading aimed at launching research programmes of collaborative excellence in priority areas and opportunity territories of RIS3. In other words, we have once again taken into account the European dimension, with an expected investment of EUR 2.85 million. On the other hand, the Department of Education's commitment to research on excellence and transfer has a clear impact on our position in the European context, and I would like to point out that the research budget has been increased above the government's commitment of 5% annually. Specifically, this represents 6.3 % more than in the 2017 period. The department's science policy strategy has allowed Euskadi's weight at the state and world levels to grow steadily over the past decade, thanks to higher growth rates, exceeding 5,200 indexed publications. Again, as I did in my first speech, we have a position clearly aligned with the European strategic priorities, and we must defend our competences in the field of education and develop them fully within a framework of collaboration in the European context. And this vision will continue to be our guide in our future policies and actions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. "The sixteenth point in the subject list," "Queen Martíni was made together by the member of the Podemos to the head of the Board of Education concerning the condition of the scholars of the Virgin." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u101	Madam Counsellor, on 10 November last the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country confirmed the judgment annulling the modification of the General Plan of Urban Planning of Bilbao which allowed the expansion of the Urretxindorra ikastola and the construction of a shopping centre on its land. Faced with this treatment of favor provided by the city council to a private center, we have the unjustified delays that your department has been applying for ten years to all the public centers of the Ibayondo district. How can you justify these delays and that double standard that your party applies in different institutions, between public and private education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u102	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u103	Mme. head of the table. Mr. Becerra, as I remarked last April 5 on the Board of Education, was made in three historical countries, and we were given the opportunity to establish the priorities of a program of precise operations and investigations which was subsequently designed to improve the infrastructure. Among the activities specified, the River Range must be underlined. Moreover, on this same committee, on the 24th of May, I had occasion to inform you of the details of other works which we are doing in this district. More specifically, to increase San Adrian High School, work and a new building for the Barretta College. At this point, I'd like to remind you that more than 80% of the underlying plans are executed or is in transfer. This data shows a clean bet to continue on the quality of our education system equipment. This program contains three main signs of action: and the co-ordination and co-ordination of the Institutions of the Schools under the Society of the Town State, and the maintenance of the Institutions. With regard to school needs, the programme provides for 62 expansion, adaptation and establishment of new educational centres to meet the demand for new school places. In the section on reform, improvement and adaptation to regulations, which, in addition to the renovation and improvement of equipment, places special emphasis on the work that allows for correct accessibility to educational institutions, 78 actions were planned. In addition, the so-called minor works must be added to these proceedings. In the budget project of 2018, the budget model modeling will increase 4,3%, which will arrive at 41,2 million euros. In answer to your question, the river-range is by no means abandoned, but it is an important part of the plan expressed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u105	Madam Counsellor, I cannot agree with you that I Baiondo is not abandoned, because ten years later none of the three planned centres are in progress. The first, if it arrives, will be Pagasarribide, ten years after the problems of massification and saturation began to arise. The Miribilla neighbourhood in 2007 began to have 3,000 new families without any kind of planning. And, in the face of the ten years of delay that I mention, the private center Urretxindorra in less than two years obtained a requalification and built a new building to serve the student who cannot be served by public educational centers. I understand that the works that are carried out in private centers like Urretxindorra are not their responsibility, but they are those of public centers. And the reality is that today we are still in the Ibaiondo district without having any of the centers that they promised in their day. And I have to say that I have firsthand knowledge of it, because I was one of the parents who in 2009 went to the Territorial Education Delegation to beg (because it can't be called otherwise) to begin to address the problem that was being seen coming and that, as I told you, we have already had it for ten years. But the case of Urretxindorra is not an isolated case. A vocational training centre was also planned, a site in the most polluted area of the entire Miribilla. Then it has turned out that, as it was €6 million to decontamination, neither the city council nor the government has faced it. Another private centre, Harrobia Lanbide Eskola, faced this gap, which took advantage of the space left for it to be established and to keep all the professional training in the neighborhood. And, of course, the problem is that I Baiondo is not an isolated case. It's not an isolated case, as I told you. 2009year Ibaiondo zen Bilboko barruti bakarra non ikasleen kopurua zentro publikoetan pribatuetan bath gehiagokoa zen. And, as I say, what's happening in the district of Ibayondo is not an isolated case. It is a systematic plan that has its party to asphyxiate the public educational network through saturation, massification and creation of ghettos, so that families flee from public education to the private concerted network. And at least they could have the gallantness to recognize it as recognized by the People's Party, which prefers the concerted network. There's nothing wrong with recognizing him! What cannot be is that you play the trick over and over again, and defend public education with words and promote private education with facts, which is what is happening here. And I have to say that that the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country has made it very clear. However, Mr Abaunza, in his appearance at Bilbao City Hall, confused a non-profit entity such as Urretxindorra with a center comparable to a public one. And it is, or they don't have clear things, or they have too clear things, and that's the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u106	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u107	Mr Becerra, the urban actions to which you refer in your justification are the responsibility of the Bilbao City Council. And don't try to mix things up. It is irresponsible to ensure that district centres in Ibayondo are abandoned, as it is that the works are four years late. And don't tell me ten, because what we have as a government will be able to charge us for four years. And I'm going to say no. In his justification he speaks of four, now he speaks of ten... I don't know. Currently the following works are being carried out in the district of Ibayondo collected in the plan, which carries an execution of 80%: New center for the IES Pagasarribide, 3.4 million; planned completion before summer. Expansion of IES San Adrian, 3 million; planned completion October 2018. New CEIP centre Iruarteta, 7 million, awarded work, and is expected to start at the end of this year or at the beginning of 2018. In addition, in 2014 works were executed at CEIP Iruarteta for compliance with regulations, worth 195,000, and in 2016 at IES San Adrian, maintenance works worth 270,000 euros. To all this must be added a long list of minor works that have been carried out, such as works in the classroom of psychomotricity and enabling classroom of 2 years in the CEIP Iruarteta, repair of pavement in the access to Pagasarribide, or repair of the dining room and evacuation works of the IES San Adrian. It has nothing to do with what you're saying! In the case of children's education and high school schools, the City of Bilbo, most of which have been financed by summer aid, have to be underlined. So the river-range is by no means abandoned.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 18th point in the subject list: "I'm asking you, Laura Garridio Knörre, a member of the Postula team, a member of the Medical Department, a position in the Guardian Hospitals' Watching of Fame." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Egun on, Sailburuak, Health Advisor. A very curious question, Mr. Counsellor, which is what has been brought to our attention. This is not the first time we asked you about it, but, according to the fourth edition of the Health Reputation Monitor, as you well know, of 74 hospitals that appear on the list, to see the first Basque hospitals we have to go to post 25, where is Galdakao Hospital, HUA in the 45, then Cruces in the 49, Basurto in the 60, and Donostia University Hospital. We were surprised by this placement in this ranking of all hospitals, and we wanted to know their assessment. That is why we have asked you this question.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u110	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u111	Mr. President, members of the legislature, chief physician, all good noon again. Mrs Garrido, the question you asked me about this racket has surprised me; for there are a thousand more important matters to treat of this legislature than that. The offices of Euskal hospitals in that racket don't surprise me or worry about me or anybody. In fact, this rinking has a doubtful method, because its purpose is to make publicity and to work on what is supposed to be a reputation. But whose reputation? Especially the laboratory and health insurance station. And I say this after analyzing the little information available to date on the methodology of the study, to which almost nobody gives value and in which what stands out is what unknown evaluators charge for completing remote evaluation questionnaires without visiting any center. Anecdotes aside, the reputation of Osakidetza hospitals in isolation is not our top priority. It's never been. What is a priority for us is the quality and accessibility of the Basque health service as a whole. Let me put it another way: For us, this is important: It's less than an hour from where anybody lives in Eukadin to be a good hospital, and in that medical center or hospital the patient chooses, whatever it may be, to offer and give good results. That's the priority for us. And as you know, we're head of that funking. It's just to see what many reliable reports and confessions say.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u112	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u113	With all due respect, I do not believe that a ranking that has been drawn up according to indicators can be disqualified. It is the fourth edition, and it cannot be disqualified out of respect for the people who have collaborated in its elaboration. There are already four editions, but it is that moreover, as you well know, the results regarding the previous edition have worsened. Last year Galdakao was in the 23rd, this year in the 25th; HUA in the 25th, this year drops to 45th; Basurtus in the 54th, this year has dropped to 60th; Donostia Hospital in the 63rd, and falls to 66th. That is, if we compare them, last year and this year, the X-ray is quite similar: from 74 hospitals, we have to go down to 23 last year, this year to 25, to find the first Basque hospitals. And if we put this ranking data in relation to what we spend on health, which is very good and we congratulate ourselves on it – and we also contribute to increasing the health budgets, as you well know, following the amendments that we have tabled in these and previous budgets – then it draws a lot of attention that, being the autonomous community that spends the most on health (1,673 euros per inhabitant, 54 euros more than last year), then we are not in top positions in this ranking, counselor. It is very noteworthy that, as last year's budget has grown to 3.6%, we do not improve these positions, when systematically and every year we see how the health budget improves. Last year it was 3.537 million euros, the highest budget of all the autonomous communities, and it is something for which we congratulate ourselves... Not only do we congratulate ourselves, but we contribute to it with important games, which we also believe are for the benefit of Basque citizens. As you well know, this year we have incorporated investments for the hospital of Eibar, investments for specific health centers, for a magnetic resonance, to increase the departure of hospital pharmacy, for urgent health transport in the three territories... Therefore, we think it is very good to provide more resources, but I think, Mr. Counsellor, sincerely, that here you had to rethink the management that makes of the abundant public resources that you have to manage in the Department of Health. Because, according to the results and the data we see in this Health Reputation Monitor ranking, we do not get very favored. And, moreover, if we see and compare the positions we had in relation to the first edition, in which the Hospital de Cruces was in position 14, then we have worsened, and year after year we are getting worse. And it is quite paradoxical that year after year we are getting worse, when year after year the health budgets are increased in Euskadi, to which I tell you that the People's Party is very pleased to contribute through its amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u114	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u115	Garrido anderea, I am pleased that you are concerned about the quality of Basque health. I share it with you. Take the trouble to enter not in what the press puts, but on the website of the said study, where in the study itself, and on its website, quotes an international accredited entity that says regarding the study – and I will read it textually –: "The scope of the collection procedures carried out in the work of limited review is lower than that of a reasonable safety work, and therefore also the level of safety that is provided". The aforementioned study, which seems to worry you so much, says on its website that it pays twenty euros in a gift check in a well-known online store to those who fill out the questionnaires. Allow me, look, if you are worried that we will spend well, and I am sure you will, also worry that you will increase budgets in the communities in which you govern, which I am sure your citizens will also thank. We always talk about quality, patient satisfaction, indicators of results, international standards, objectives, and in those rankings, with serious, rigorous and contrasting data, we are always in the first positions, although in some goes the discourse on the one hand but seems to weigh. Last week the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality itself published data on surgical waiting lists in the State, and Euskadi, together with Madrid, presented the best indicators. In October, the Federation of Associations for the Defense of Public Health, comparing indicators from all communities, also positioned us, together with Navarra, at the head of the state. Euskadi leads cancer screening programs, as the Spanish Cancer Association constantly recognizes. The Deustobarometer, which was published yesterday and you have it today in the press, places once again, in what is often called positive trends, Osakidetza as the best rated public service in Euskadi. These are the recognitions of those we are proud of, and we are sure that you too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u116	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "To ask the question, Jason Aguirre Garitagondia EH Collectors to the Chief of Policy and Cultural Society, about the old railway station in Durango." Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u117	Mr. Zupiria, the train arrived 135 years ago at Duranta, for the first time, and with the train everything turned over: the train brought in the industry, and also the new people. From the station that was then built, there is only an old building left, and the Durango City has decided to break it down. As you know, it is soon to accept the new law of the cultural domain, and this law, for the first time, will protect the manufacturing community, and this station is one of the rare industrial provinces of Durong. Anyway, it's the 2018th Year of Kultur Ondare. So you agree with the decision that the Council of Durango has made for the overthrow of the old station?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u119	Mr. President, Mrs. Aguirre, Congressman, good morning to all of you. I believe that the people of Durang have a great opportunity for their development and the first railway station in that area. As far as I know, the Council of Durango has a very ambitious project for that purpose, and has done all the work and consultations to get ahead of it wherever it is to be done. I'm sure he'll be grateful to the legal decisions which the Durangian Council has made between his cares and his duties. And as far as we are concerned, I tell you that we are ready to help us in our fields and to travel.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u120	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u121	Well, now I'll tell you what the train is, the railway station, the Durango and the whole of Durango questions, because Durango can't understand the history without the train, because the train changed everything. Our father-mother's life passed over the mad speed of the train from the slow speed of the eaubats and waggons. The station became the entrance to Durango, where the people from outside greeted and saluted. Dreams, business, coming and going on the train to Bilbo and Donostia, with the help of that new trich or sound on the way. The station that had suffered the war, the labouring struggle, received thousands of immigrants, and, always, it has been standing up until now. Today the railway passes underground, and the old station is empty, and, as you say, the town has plans to do so. The Durango City has therefore decided to throw it away, and a division of money, about a million, has been admitted to it. And now the transcendental question follows: Did Durango's council make the right decision? In fact, the councils do not always make the right decisions, and although there are historical examples of Durangon. For example, and you, Mr. Zupiria, know Durango, the Arch of Santa Ana, which is the symbol of the people, and now the council wanted to knock down the largest historical value or the building that exists in the country. It's been a long time, it's true, 19. it is a matter of the century; but even then, on the whole, they did not throw off the protestations of the people, who, by good fortune, had opposed the affair of this turban. Today, in Durango, we show Durang you with pride the Arch of Santa Ana, and now it's fresh again. But now, for the old station at Durango, the Archan of Santa Ana lives in the same danger that he had then lived; so we ask you to act wisely, and once we ask you to do whatever you need to do, to abandon the appeal, for a time of discussion, because I know that Durongn has not spread out into the village. Ask the Drangs, please. We think it's very useful for the old station, we can't forget the past of our country: it is not nostalgia, it is respect, it is memory, our history, our inheritance, it is what we have been, and what we want to be. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u123	Mrs. Aguirre, I think we can make up our minds all that we want, and I'd say that we're in the first place of a discussion, and that I, at least, since I've been not a turban, I'm not a man to discuss the decisions that are made up to us like Durang. And like the head of the department, it's a duty to identify the euskal cultural community, to appreciate it and if there's any significant culture values to be maintained, to start the process to protect this particular cultural domain. The Cultura Sound Center examined the Durong station in February 1994, and that technical study didn't predict that the EukMATM would have to protect the Durant station. The film that created the Cultura Ondarie in February 1994 says: "The company called Frérocarl Central de Vizcaya in 1882 held in support of the railway train which bound Bilbo and Dura, but after the company had closed its mines, original railway stations were 20. They lost in the 30ththth century." In the same block, in 2012, the Eulegane Industries and the Basque Society of the People of the City of Job, were gathered together by the industrial community... In japanese, this society is an independent society, and he published a great work which collected the Euscal colony: Basque Ondea Industries. There, with the intention of protecting 583 culture property as an inheritance, there wasn't any Community-Songster among them. As you have said, the values connected with the station at Durango are historical, historical, rather than architectic. And that explains that Durango's train station wasn't in the safe custody of the Basque Games. To recognize and value these historical values properly, it may perhaps be interesting to document deeply the influence of the Durangon train, such as collecting the graphic documentation, and to encourage Duron's initiative in the institutions which lie there. If the people of Durang chose to do so, we would be our companions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-15.u124	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and thirty.
