ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u1	Good morning. Mr. Martínez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Today, before the House, the Galician Digital Administration Bill, a necessary and useful project, because information and communication technologies in particular on the Internet, play an increasingly relevant role in society. 96.1% of citizens have mobile phones, 52.7% use smart phones, 50% use social networks and 45% use electronic banking. In the case of young people, these percentages rise considerably, reaching 90% of those who have a profile on their partner networks and 53.6% of those who use electronic banking, for this reason, in the coming years we will see these figures rise in a remarkable way. As for companies, from multinationals to pemes, they are increasingly dependent on the intelligent use of ICT, which has been a necessary, even survival factor for the continuity of business. In this way, new technologies are integrated into society, which is demanding to relate to administration using quality electronics, which are simple and intuitive. In view of this scenario, the Administration has to stand at the forefront of the use of new technologies, to become a tractor of society and economy, and to be able to adapt agilely to new demands. What are the objectives of this law? Four are the main targets. First of all, to provide the Galician Union with a stable legal framework which, from a cross-cutting perspective, allows for coherence in global e-government action. Secondly, within the general regulatory framework for electronic administration, the principles governing public intervention by public administrations in Galicia are legally established. Thirdly, to offer greater efficiency, efficiency and simplification of procedures through which citizens and companies relate to the autonomous administration. Fourthly, to achieve a comprehensive and coherent regulatory context, to encourage both public and private investment in this area, taking into account that it provides the legal security necessary to generate confidence in the sector, confirming the firm commitment of this autonomous administration in the development of ICT. We seek that unique framework with three principles. First of all, the "only at once," that is to say, avoid complaining to the citizen that the administration already has. Secondly, proactivity, i. e. use the information the Administration has to provide personalized services and meet the needs of the citizen. And thirdly, the automation of processes, to get, obviously, a more efficient management. The priority is to consolidate a fully digital administration and universalize the use and access of citizenship to digital public services. Ladies and gentlemen, this law comes to the pre-consent House. We're looking for maximum participation and agreement during all your processing. So, before preparing it and to encourage participation, we carry out a public consultation through the Joint Transparency Portal to request opinions from both individuals and organizations that are more representative of the scope of this rule. Even so, during its processing the text was the object of information and public exposure. It has been sent to a wide-ranging relationship of entities and social agents, both public and private, to submit their suggestions. In addition, after the public exhibition period, it was adopted at the Bureau of Staff of the Union with the unanimous vote of all trade union organizations, which is very strikingly unusual. With this high degree of consensus, we present a legal text with important improvements for the Administration, for public employees and for citizenship, and all this transformation will make it reality by taking advantage of the opportunities offered by information and communication technologies. The role of ICT is essential because its use represents a transformation engine that also provides a change in the culture of public organizations in Galicia, starting with the Administration. We present a necessary law for a public administration of the 21st century, because -- straight -- in an increasingly digital context, administration cannot be alien to the demand of a society that demands us the same immediacy and availability that it finds in other areas of its life thanks to technology. Since 2010, as the German Government, we have seen the foundations of a fully digital administration, which implies reformulating its internal organization and implementing new models of work with the support of the appropriate legal framework. Aware of this, I insist that it is essential to have a unique policy framework to consolidate a fully digital, more accessible and proactive administration. We also aim for collaboration and cooperation between public administrations, with an inter-administrative commission that promotes the cohesion of digital administration. We also want to provide joint or complementary digital services, providing a coherent picture of the Administration towards citizenship. We regulate, in addition, the internal digital operation. The Administrative Electronic Archive will host the processing and finalised files, while the Passive Interoperability Platform will be the node of data exchange and documents between public administrations. This measure facilitates the exchange of information between administrations and prevents the citizen or company from having to submit documents by duplicate, depending on whether they are one or another administration. In the iodine of the digital infrastructure, basic support is formed by the data processing center and the corporate network of Join. With this legal text, the Autonomic Administration will have a digital service continuity plan that will determine the safety, quality and continuity requirements for preventive, corrective and reactive actions. And since we want this law to follow up, we've created a system of indicators of digital administration, in addition to enhancing the Observatory of the Information Society and the technological modernization of Galicia. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, in the current context of digital transformation, and as the second key aspect of this law, public employees are the key engine of change. From this reflection, the standard also lays the foundations for the public employee to develop his work from a digital point of view, because it gives him the means to perform his functions in the new digital context, such as remote access, or telework, and mobility. In addition, selective processes will incorporate into your program, if necessary, content related to digital administration and information and communication technologies that are suitable for each body, scale or category. Another novelty is the creation of the figure of the authorized official, which will allow an authorized person, or an official, to carry out telematics on behalf of another person. To make this possible, we foresee the creation of the General Electronic Register of Credentials and also that of the authorized person; a third person who has the authorization of a person to have relations with the Public Administration on his behalf. We also welcome the possibility of voluntary accession of the public administrations of Galicia. And as a third step, we want to move forward towards a new model of citizenship relationship with Public Administration, establishing a regulatory framework with technology providers that ensures maximum transparency and the development of good practices in their relationship with Administration. In this issue, aware of Galicia's sociodemographic characteristics, we plan measures to ensure that all Welsh people benefit from the advantages of public services, and thus avoid the digital divide. To that end, we bet on turning the registry offices and paying attention to citizenship into counselling and support spaces, helping citizens in online management with the Administration. Similarly, this rule obliges the Government of Greece to determine the measures necessary to ensure that citizens of Galicia resident outside Galicia, as well as the Greek entities located in another territory, have electronic access to digital public services that are applicable to them. It is also worth noting that the General Administration and instrumental entities in the autonomous public sector of Galicia will have to promote the necessary actions to facilitate the digital relationship of persons with disabilities for the full exercise of their rights and obligations under this law. On the other hand, this legal text consolidates the unique electronic headquarters as a single, simple and network-accessible access point for any resource or service of the Administration, giving great relevance to the citizen's folder. In fact, the new headquarters is already set up as a private space between citizens and businesses, where they can manage on-line all the information concerning their administrative procedures, and in this folder will be all personal and administrative information available by the Public Administration. Ladies and gentlemen, this is very important, because we have to change the scope of what we call the administration. Our aspiration is that, thanks to this proactivity, we can in the future get it to be the administration itself to offer information that may be of interest to the citizen based on the data they operate in our power. In this line, we also want to promote digital training, which is why the rule defines for the first time the creation of a Greek framework of digital skills, so that minimum knowledge, skills and attitudes will be determined to contribute to the development of an advanced digital service user society, professional improvement and collective well-being. In this way, just as it is already done with the Celga model to certify Greek, citizens can believe their knowledge in the digital field and improve their skills. Because another priority of this rule is digital inclusion, with various actions such as the digital literacy of citizenship, promoting the use of basic digital skills, digital training, the promotion of digital talent or the promotion of cooperation networks. Finally, with this law we offer the single legal framework to achieve a new way of serving, based on agility and proactivity. Any hour, and from anywhere, the Union will be open to all citizens. A new law that is part of a modern, efficient and quality model of administration, one of the axes - as you well know - of the current Strategic Plan of Galicia, which contributes to consolidating our model of healthy growth, because, ladies and gentlemen, the Public Administration must evolve along with society. In addition, this standard falls within the 2020 Digital Administration and Government Plan, which has been launched four years ago, with an investment of EUR 27.7 million, which contributes to strengthening that healthy growth model - as I mentioned earlier - we are consolidating. Once completed, this plan will also allow an accessible administration for citizens at twenty-four hours the 300 sixty-five days of the year, and it will cost more than EUR 41 million a year. In this sense, it is vital to achieve a full development of e-government and take advantage of digital technologies to build a new model of administration that is more transparent, simple, effective and inclusive; a model of public administration is more consistent with the demands of citizenship and businesses. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to count on the support of all groups of the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u3	Thank you, Counselor. The role of defence of amendments to the whole of return and positioning with respect to the project. [[Pause.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u4	Good morning. Since we're a little bit of a hangover, I wanted to start by congratulating the winners and also encouraging the losers, who had everything in these elections, each one sees things as best he can. In any case, we go back to Parliament to talk about a matter that is of vital importance, such as digital administration, all over the digital world. It's a matter where we understand that there's a lot of rhetoric, that there's a lot of speech built up of rather repeated and empty ideas, and I think it's important to go beyond the surface, which sometimes deceives us with this twisted rhetoric of words that speak of a reality that then does not exist. Here it's very common to hear about transparency, good government, participation... at last of a kind of digital paradise that promised us Galician Union at its moment and which was going to be achieved by 2020. But the reality, Mr. Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, is that, of course, that could be credible in 2012, or in 2013, or in 2014 because five or six years were missing, but now 2020 is already there, and the reality is that this digital paradise that we have been promised does not exist, because Galicia — and statistics are powerful — is on the line of the state in digital matter in all areas, in all respects — and then I will give you the data, Mr. Counsellor — so they come down from the hole, they come down to reality. What makes all this speech manifest in any case and all this paraphernalia is that you don't have any plans, no projects, for this country. Their time was over in 2020. They made all plans for 2020 because it is the end of the cycle. They're telling us that by 2020 you're going to disappear from this government, and the evidence is also in the election results, because they're already in the discount time, so they have no plans beyond 2020. [[Applause]] Well, yeah, they've got Xacobeo by 2021, but more than that, you can't see anything anymore. Throughout the memory of this law references to 2020 appear as a final point. What's wrong? That after 2020 there will be no digital administration or any digital administration? Well, you'd have to think a little bit about all those issues. Then you forget an issue that is fundamental, that there is a terrible gap, a terrible digital divide, in our society for geographic reasons, also for generational reasons, for economic reasons, which is also a barrier to access to technology, and also for sociocultural reasons, and in this law there are no means to combat these fractures and cracks. You've spoken to them saying that the Internet, that the digital, are the highways of the 21st century, because the reality is that in this matter we're going along corridors, we're not going by bus; in Galicia we're going along corridors. You said what you wanted to get 80% of the population to be less than fifteen minutes away from a high-capacity track. For in the matter of technology we are also fifteen minutes from a high-capacity track, twenty or thirty or fifty — depending on the cases — and this is a huge slab for a country, you know it perfectly well. It's a disaster for development, it's a disaster for quality of life, and it's a disaster for the competitiveness of a country too. And the reality is that, despite the propaganda of the 2020 digital paradise, as much as they repeat it — that they have been repeating it all these years — Galicia is on the side of the state, and we no longer say of the European Union; the reality is that Galicia is on the line of the state in access to fast, ultra-fast Internet networks. We're about 20 points away from the state average, it's data from the 2018 Ministry of Economics; we're at 61%, compared to the state average that is 81%; we're the second worst community after Extreme. And the same is true of access to knowledge and use of the Internet, people who frequently use the Internet. It turns out we are the worst community in the state; we are ten points from the state average. So, what do they come up with? They can't brag about anything because we're the last ones, we're in line. And this law has another important limitation, Counselor. We understand that it should be a law for the whole public administration. You cannot build parallel realities and worlds and various speeds for administration. They had a chance here. There are other territories of the state, other countries, which have done this, have made a law for the entire public administration, not a law for the autonomous administration, and then others that go at the pace that seems to them. There are more administrations here, there are universities, there are local authorities, there's the People's Valley, there's Parliament, and they're all interconnecting and communicating with each other. It should be a law that marks the same rhythms, the same speeds, the same procedures for all laws. There's a key aspect in this sense, which is the citizenship and registration offices. You set goals to create this network, these offices, for the Autonomic Administration, but in order to really guarantee the full access of citizenship to this digital administration, we have to ensure that there are offices throughout the territory that are close to people, in order to be able to process and manage and relate to the Administration. How are you gonna get this? Would it not be logical to have a law for the entire administration that established the mechanisms to make this happen? There's actually interoperability, there's the passage platform -- then we'll talk about the passage -- but it should be much clearer and more specific and mark targets in general. And we have already told you that there are examples - for example in Catalonia - that they have done so for the entire Public Administration and that they have created a consortium of administration and open government in Catalonia, which is a management agency where all administrations are and have already been law-enforced since 2010. You, by failing to comply with this law, do not even take into account the 2020 Digital Administration and Government Plan itself, for example, which provides for a plan to promote the use of digital administration for citizenship and businesses — which we do not see anywhere — the creation of the advanced service portfolio, or, for example, the open data catalogue. I don't know if you've bothered in recent times to consult the open data of the Galician Union, but they're a real disaster, they're absolutely outdated data, some of them in 2013, some of them aren't up to date. What kind of open data are they talking about? What kind of rigor, efficiency, are they putting us in public light? That's shameful, Counselor. You should look at it, I think you should look at it. Look, the other great lie, the other mantra of this law, is that of participation. You think that by making a law of participation, of democracy, of good government, of transparency, for there is already transparency and good government. No, by making a law, we've already achieved transparency and good governance. Words do not replace reality, reality must be built, demonstrated and practiced every day: transparency, democracy and participation, and we don't see it. The reality, what we see, is that they build a decoration, a simulation, a screenplay of all those beautiful words that hide that we have more and more opaque governments, less transparent governments, and that decisions are made further and further, with less transparency and less participation in citizenship, because we are at a historic time when democracy is being replaced by technocracy. You're creating a great paraphernalia of organisms, platforms and technology that really hide a gigantic private business. They're privatizing the public administration on the pretext of technology, giving the management of large sectors of the administration to large companies that are friends of the People's Party, this is the big business that has been set up here. And we miss the fact that the citizen participation mechanism is actually established, because what we see in the processing of laws, standards, in all the process of approval of plans and programmes is that social participation is minimal because no mechanisms, no presences or telematics, are established to promote participation. Look, another important question I've been referring to before. This law serves to... there's a tertulia, I don't know if they're commenting on Sunday's results. [[Murmurs.]] But, well, they have reason to consult them, no problem. He said that this law creates a parallel administration, a hypertrophy administration, which has as its central core Amtega - therefore, the Presidency of the Union - and which is branched with hundreds of contracts and hundreds and hundreds of people hired to manage essential public services that are in the hands of private companies, like the personal data that are managed through those platforms, confidential data. We're talking about the electronic judicial administration, we're talking about the Abalar Project, we're talking about the electronic clinical history, in Indra's hands -- are you the Indra? -- about the single social history, in Indra's hands -- about the corporate e-mail, about the public procurement platform of electronic records, about the PassaXe platform -- in the hands also of a company that is very connected to the People's Party. You, with all these procedures, create a kind of technology dependency with companies that develop knowledge and technological development that make them parasitian companies of the Administration itself, because they are the ones that have that knowledge, that software, and therefore have a competitive advantage to win contracts. That's why these companies always win contracts! They are the same since 2010-2011, when you started privatizing all these key sectors of the Administration. This is a digital world, this is a real digital world. The traditional digital, that of the contracts given to the finger, because most of these contracts were given to the finger. I'll give you some data. Three companies — Indra, Atos and Everis — had 513 contracts in five years for more than 110 million euros, Counsellor. Most of them, 324, with Amtega, and in addition to Sergas, with Gain, with CIXTEC, with the advisors. Two hundred and twenty of these contracts were minor contracts awarded by the digital procedure — this — and they were awarded these contracts. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows the benches a document.]] Well, these companies have recently been fined by the National Securities Market Commission — the three I mentioned to them, the three major companies that receive most of the contracts — and you know why? The fine was 30 million euros. These three companies received more than 14 million of these 30. And it was by creating a cartel, nothing more and nothing less; that is, by creating a business plot that has distributed customers, has agreed prices and terms of trade and has exchanged sensitive information to fuel public procurement, nothing more and nothing less. And then they come and tell us that you're saving a lot of money on this issue. Some, of course, are making a lot of money. So, all these contracts are under suspicion, so we also asked for an investigation, an audit, of that whole paraphernalia of contracts with friendly companies. Look, I could tell you myself that companies are going to hire you to manage the autonomous elections of next year. I can tell you. I can leave an envelope locked here and I'm sure I'm not mistaken, because it will be the same as they did in 2012 and 2016: Indra and Netaccesse; which are precisely the companies of this tingle that have assembled here to privatize large sectors of the administration. Look, there are many more reasons why this amendment is justified in full. For example, Title III, which refers to the public sector on the Internet, which should be subjected to an intensive cure of slimming, through all that conglomerate of portals we have, which are portals mainly used not for information, but for government propaganda. This law would, in any case, force you to make a big sieve there and put order, because the websites, the portals, are increasingly proliferating, and should be in the opposite direction. But then the report by the General Legal Counsel, which is March 8, 2019, made a real suit to the law. He didn't let his head slip, we can say, because it's really demolition, and not only in technical, normative, formal or terminological matters, but also in substantive matters. For example, regarding the non-existent economic and financial memory. Because it's called economic and financial memory to what the director of Amtega has done, who dedicates three lines to this issue. It's not serious. Then you had to make another supplementary report, which also leaves much to be desired, because, for example, in the economic and financial memory, you refer to the investments of 2018, 2019 and 2020. But what rigor is this if the law will enter into operation at the end of the year 2019! So what's the point of referring to past investments? It will have to refer to the economic and budgetary impact it will have on the future. But since for you the world ends in 2020, as the Union government ends in 2020, they no longer worry about what will happen later, apparently. Finally, what about the Economic and Social Council as well? How can one understand that a matter of such transcendence for Galician economic and social development as this one must not go through the report of the Economic and Social Council? It's an absolute contradiction. Well, finally — and finished — since we're in time of resurgence, these days are of resurgence, what we give you is a suspension, a very poor one, Counsellor. Because this is a short rule, which really means unifying all the dispersed regulations that have been published in recent years and also adapting state and European legislation; because it does not guarantee access to the network as a basic right — other countries have declared the Internet as a fundamental human right, we would have to move in that direction too, and it contributes to expanding the geographic, generational, economic and socio-cultural gaps; because it does not provide means for inclusion in the case of people with sensory barriers and communication — there are general rhetorical declarations but it does not establish how this will be done; because it does not guarantee the full use of our language, which is being discriminated also with the pretext of technology — and here we have the example of the Administration of Justice, which is being used to consolidate the apartheid linguistics...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u5	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u6	...of the Greek in the Administration, because there are no technological tools and because using the Greek in the Administration of Justice is a task of heroes or puppets—and that's why we can't accept laws that give a letter of nature to all this discrimination; because it doesn't guarantee the public character of the Administration and favors the digital business of a few companies, as I told you and as I showed you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u7	Thank you, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u8	...and because it does not contribute to building a more participatory and democratic society. For all this, we are asking the Government to be returned to this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u9	Thank you. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u10	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Good morning, Mr. Councillor of Fairy, I have to admit that, without prejudice to the composition and the collective responsibility of the self-government, we are at least called attention that is precisely the adviser of Fairy instead of the counsellor responsible for public administrations who defend this bill, for, above all, the competences which systematically in the articulation of the bill are established within the Government of Galicia reside in the councillor with competence in public administrations. I don't know if they'll be the first readjustments as a result of this election Sunday or not, but they call us attention. And in that sense, Counsellor, the German Government today brings to this House a debate of an entire bill that, firstly, we consider it to be late, when technologies are not stopping to advance; secondly, it is a bill that does not sufficiently guarantee the new digital rights of citizenship; and thirdly, a bill, Mr. Fairy Counsellor, which is little or nothing ambitious for Galicia's digital economy. It comes with excessive delay because, as you well know, it had been announced in various regulatory plans of 2017 and 2018. And, in that sense — and as the previous spokesperson for BNG also said — it is a bill that basically limits itself to implementing in Galicia the State basic rule of laws 30 and 40 of 2015, of four years ago, on the administrative procedure and on the legal regime of the public sector. Counsellor, here we continue to insist — and we address the whole of the German Government — that follows the alarming inability precisely to promote and bring to this House the various legislative projects. And in that sense, we have to ask ourselves this question again: where is the policy plan for 2019? We are in June, almost June, Counsellor, hardly worth announcing by the Government of Greece a new regulatory plan if, among other things, as had happened in 2018 only they were able to take forward — of course, it is inexcusable — the law of budgets and the law of accompaniment, so much discussed by our side. But it is only that, in addition, Mr Counsellor, taking advantage of his presence, I believe that this House — at least our parliamentary group — needs clarification of the working system of the German Government in the field of digital economy for Galicia. Because in the last council of May 16th, the Board of Trustees agreed to initiate the development of Galicia's digital strategy by 2030. And according to the reference to the council, it will prioritize digital training with the promotion and responsible use of technologies in a stable, appropriate legal framework, the consolidation of a strong digital ecosystem — I said in the reference to the council — and the increase in specialized digital profiles. This new strategy, Counselor, didn't it have to be a previous framework to bring this bill to this House? Are we faced with a bill that is wet paper, Counsellor, or is it, as in other times, a new advertisement, more propaganda, to magnify this legislative project and hide its important deficiencies that, both the amendment that our parliamentary group presents to the whole as well as the corresponding amendments to the articulate, are they proving? Because this new strategy, Counselor, comes after Galicia's 2014 Galicia Digital Agenda, the Greek Digital Growth Strategy, the Galician Digital Agenda for 2020, etc. It's an absolutely Kafkian process, Counselor. Why, how many strategies, how many power points — as we say so many times — will they continue to present? Let's move on, Mr. Advocate of Fairy, to action, to record and implement, above all, the necessary budgets that strongly push for R & D policies in Galicia. Because, as we know, the Greek Government continues to bet on less than 0.90% of the R & D budgets -- more or less we are at the height of Slovakia -- when we would have to aim to be working around 1.5%-2% of R & D budgets. As citizens observe every day, and as they observe all agents operating with the public sector, with administrations, in the implementation of technologies since the early 1990s, or late 1980s, obviously have always been much more efficient in establishing electronic procedures in services that ensure the obtaining of public resources, in services that enter, in tax services, in social security services, in traffic and road safety services, etc. And this, of course, was logical, and continues to be logical in ensuring a system of obtaining the public resources needed to develop the welfare system and all public spending policies. But they have always been much slower and much more dispersed and much less committed to applying technologies precisely in the processes that provide services to people. And the current state of technology, the current state of science, although it already allows you to give, Mr Counsellor, an important qualitative step in the provision of electronic, universal and quality services to citizens, always guaranteeing as a basic premise, of course, the essential digital equality of rights and opportunities. But we have observed, Mr Counsellor, as the preliminary title of this bill itself and, for example, in articles 6 and 9 only collect catalogues of obligations and catalogues of duties by the citizen. We, on the part of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, consider it absolutely empty of a catalogue of genuine digital rights of citizenship this bill, and so we will make it clear, of course, in the process of debate of amendments to articulate. We will have the opportunity to debate them, Mr Counsellor, and I hope that we will reach agreement in this important area of technological discussion in the parliamentary debate on the articulation of this law. Because to ensure, as Article 14 of the Common Administrative Procedure Act provides, the right of all natural persons to choose at all times whether or not they relate electronically to public services must also be subject to special regulation within the scope of the Galician Digital Administration Act; which, of course, is a digital administration law of the autonomous public sector, we cannot admit that the title of the law refers to the digital administration of all Galicia, so we do present the corresponding amendment. The title of the law is important for citizens to know what this House is approving and what is the impact and depth of this reform that they want to put in place. The digitization of the administration, Counsellor, and in many cases even the robotization of administrative processes, cannot assume the dehumanization of public services. And in that sense, the role of public servants, the role of all the people who make up the Government of Wales, must be guaranteed precisely this humanizing capacity of public services in the face of inevitable processes but which show important dangers of dehumanization in the functioning of public services. And on this subject - Mr Bará said - we had in the Commission a number of debates on processes and plans which have been presented to the Commission on administrative reform and on the training of public employees. And in that sense, we are missing much more commitments to strengthen staff the public services that have to reach citizenship and to strengthen all training and training programmes for public employees in Galicia. And in this debate, on Sunday, the neighbors and neighbors of all the Greek municipalities moved a lot of changes. And among these changes, I believe that all the neighbors, all of us who voted and voted this Sunday, demand a new way to relate by the Autonomic Administration to the local authorities that make up the local Galician administration. In this debate on the degree of the guarantee of the digital rights of neighbours and neighbours, and the guarantee of the extension of digital coverage to the whole population and to the whole of the territory of Greece, the essential support that the Self-Government has to provide to local authorities is of particular importance. We are greatly lacking serious, clear and well-articulated commitments of impulse, encouragement and collaboration, as well as the provision of digital services by the local government of Galicia. The non-involvement with our municipalities, especially with the most rural municipalities, at this new digital stage will deepen the loss of opportunities, the depopulation of the interior as well. And this is a challenge that we understand that it is not enough to deal with this bill, and therefore it is part of one of the main essences of our amendment to the whole. Thirdly, Counsellor, I pointed out at the outset that this bill is not ambitious enough for Galicia's digital economy, despite the successive statements by Amtega in the preliminary draft's explanatory memories, or the content of the bill itself, in the articles, for example, which I have here marked, 1 and 3. Some data, Mr. Counsellor, you will well know for your skills on the digital economy in Galicia: The ICT sector in Galicia is about 2.5 % of GDP. It is gathering around 1,300 companies — 80% are basically micro-pemes — and around 12,000-15,000 jobs — more than 40% of high vocational qualifications. And it's growing 45% in the last six years. It's data from the ICT cluster and the Galician Union itself. The report, I think, is relevant for the analysis of this bill, which has just presented the Commission on Electronic Administration, of the General Administration of the State, makes an X-ray of the main indicators of the different autonomous communities, and indicates that it is, that Galicia is well located in the field of electronic documents and records, in the field of interoperability, but places Galicia in much worse situation in terms of the use of innovative technologies in projects and, Counsellor, because it is one of the main objectives of this law, in terms of the availability of the citizenship folder. And it also indicates that Galicia, of the seventeen, occupies the tenth budget position executed total per capita in ICT, adding chapters I, II and VI. Also the BBVA 2017 report, which does an analysis in an attempt to analyze the digitization indicators of autonomous communities, indicates that when adopted by users or by companies, Galicia occupies the penultimate position, although it may have a better regulatory position. Last year in Commission 3rd the director of Amtega announced that ultra-fast internet coverage will be present in 96% of the Greek municipalities by 2020. And if we analyze the latest report from the Ministry of Economy and Enterprise on broadband extension, Galicia continues to occupy, on the last report submitted last April — exercise 2018 — the penultimate position to 100 or more megabytes. And in that sense it is striking that there are communities that were also in the queue — not as much as Galicia — that made a much more important effort in the area of broadband extension as a fundamental element of the implementation of new technologies. Andalucia grew seven points between 2017 and 2018. Canary Islands grew ten points between 2017 and 2018. Castile-A Mancha, fourteen points. Stremadura, which is always placed in the tail wagon, seven points. And Galicia grew only 1.5 points, from 60% to 61.1 % extension on broadband population. This is the commitment of the German Government to the digitization of our country and to the digitization, above all, of our important economic fabric. This data, Counsellor, is a good example of the impact of ICT policies on the whole of the Greek economy and therefore also on the whole of the autonomic public sector. This lack is far more serious if we take into account the predictions of the Galician Union's own strategic plan for the period 2015-2020, which takes into its axis four precisely a series of news or priorities in the field of digital society that we understand are not implemented in this bill. And at this point, and also following Mr Bará's comment, he drew attention in an important way to the extensive report of the General Legal Counsel contained in the preliminary draft file, which warned of the possible need to collect the preliminary report of the Galician Economic and Social Council, as set out in its own Article 5 in the creation law of the Economic and Social Council. And I would ask you, Mr Counsellor, for your clarification in the following reply: does the Government of Greece really consider that the preceptive rule of the ESC is indispensable in a matter which is directly linked to Galicia's economic and social development? In administrative terms, we would be practically faced with a supposed nullity of the procedure. In terms of parliamentary debate it is absolutely unacceptable for the Greek Government to disregard the preceptive dictatorship — I insist, preceptive — of the Galician Economic and Social Council as the highest consultative body of the autonomous administration. I think they have to explain this situation. Counsellor, I do not take the challenges of strengthening the digital economy this bill. He makes a reference to self-government as a collective thanks. We can agree, but progressive measures and measures to support the self-employed sector have to be implemented, which, as we know, is an absolutely varied group. You'll have to see what capabilities have to be linked in electronic terms. It makes a relationship, the bill, with regard to the absolutely abstract digital providers. And there is no bet on the bill for free software, which is a fundamental element of democratization and technological participation and, on the other hand, of maximum or greater independence in relation to the whole of the global digital economy; and above all, it is a great tractor of local ICT employment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u11	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u12	Mr. Counsellor, to conclude with all these considerations and not to confront the Galician Digital Administration Bill the challenges that we consider fundamental, our group presents the amendment to the whole for the return of the text to the Government. And we hope to substantially improve the text of this bill in the process of amendments to the articulate. Thank you, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u13	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u14	Howdy, good morning. From the Parlia­mentary Group in Marea, we have made an amendment to the whole with a request for a refund for two types of reasons. Some have to do with the chosen form for regulation and others with the content, which we understand doesn't match what should be a norm of these characteristics. I'm going to go more closely through the first of the questions, about the choice of the standard, which legally means what is called "the freezing of range," i.e. subjects that can be regulated on a regulatory basis, are passed on to regulation with the rank of law, so that it is subsequently difficult to modify them by regulation, as it would be possible in other circumstances. For that, and to see if it is suitable or not suitable in this sector for regulation by law, we must first look at how it has been done so far in this regulation and what is the current state of the matter at the normative level. I would like to recall that in the last eleven years there have been three legislative interventions in the field of electronic administration, and four subsequent, or intermixed, regulatory. I mean, there are three legislative interventions during this time is a little bit of an anomaly that is essentially characterized by technological change and by the progress that within the administration itself has the impact of the evolution of new technologies. This leads to the fact that, in parallel with this innovation with a range of laws, new developments in a regulatory nature have to be produced. And this is the situation in which we are now, a situation in which, in addition, if you are basically producing a development of basic state standards that have a technical nature and which are conditioned precisely by that technological change. We think, as a result of this context, that it is inappropriate to do so by a new standard of legal rank, because there are already rules of a legal rank that are of a basic nature, of a state character, which are the ones that set the regulatory framework and which, therefore, given the nature of the matter itself — i.e. technical standard — would be more appropriate to do so by regulation. Because that would allow for greater adaptation to technological change; that is, technological change and further regulatory reform — and not the whole legislative procedure — would be enough to allow us to adapt, and not go much later on to the administrative level in relation to technological change, something that facilitates the regulatory way rather than the legal way. And finally, also for another matter of a legal nature. And it's that, when it comes to basic standards and state standards, development legislation, if it doesn't incorporate new rights or it doesn't come near anything new, it considers the Constitutional Court to be a sort of repeated law, which censures the form of normative production. So we think that for these reasons it would be better to do it by regulation rather than by legal means. There's an additional finding, in addition, that this new rule of law doesn't innovate the legal order. And there are several recognitions of this. The first one of them was already made here in relation to his own economic memory. The fact that it is said that it has no economic cost already abounds in the fact that it has no real impact, neither in the administration itself nor in relations with the citizenry. And, secondly, because they are not faced with this norm, because they also lack economic memory, the changes necessary to respond from the Administration's own perspective to the transformations that this digital administration will make in demand for both qualitative public employment — in the professional and functional profile of the staff — and in the quantitative level, by the number of staff. So, in our opinion, we are on a more symbolic or propaganda issue by the Government than on a question that really has an impact on legislation, the attribution of rights and duties to citizenship. But already entering the substantive issues, which are the ones that seem most relevant to us, the reasons that motivate En Marea to present this amendment are, first of all, considerations that have to do with equity, the need to overcome the digital divide, the guarantee of competitive access to networks throughout the territory, equality, or also with the very impossibility of guaranteeing the public character of services, which makes us reject this project. There are two previous considerations. First, noun — and then I'll develop — has to do with rights. And we understand that the government loses an opportunity with this bill, and it's the opportunity to set up or develop a new right, such as access to information and the relationship in digital support; that is, extend it and finalize it with all the consequences. We believe that, today — and it is collected in various international texts — access to information networks and the full digital relationship should be considered a basic right of even fundamental character, but, in any case, connected as a basic right of citizenship. For what? So that in a modern society that aims to be modern, in a democracy that aims to be advanced, like ours, relationships can also be digital — if desired — if so. And it seems that it would be consistent with social cohesion that the whole society was fully trained for that digital relationship. Well, all of this implies the attribution of a series of rights to citizenship that were developed in this law, which also meant not only asking the citizens themselves but also, above all, responding with a series of obligations by the Administration, specifically those that have to do with that overrun of that digital divide to which I will now refer. None of this is in this norm. There is some attribution, or rather declaration of intent, but it is not completed with which this will be translated legally. And secondly, on a previous basis, we also want to denounce again — as did the BNG intervener — a process of privatization, not covered but more explicitly, which occurs on occasion or with the excuse of technological modernization. Contains and recognises the need to exercise indirect management of certain services related to digitisation and digital administration in this project. It has already been discussed before the role Amtega plays, the role that certain companies play, which are the ones that are managing all the great data and all the great information that is generated in our country through the Greek Public Administration. We believe that, firstly, because of the strategic nature of the digitization of administrative relations; secondly, the vulnerability of personal data, which we see constantly not only at the Greek level — I want to recall the fall of Lexnet last year, which I will refer to later — but also at the international level, and to security failures; thirdly, the frequent corruption which has been associated with the outsourcing of public services — which occupies 90% of the corruption cases investigated at this time in Galicia — and, finally, the intensification of service and the worsening of its quality — something that is not an In Marea ruling but the Galician Council itself, advises us in our view to develop a service that is quite public to prevent more sensitive and strategic information about citizenship from becoming in the hands of business groups that accumulate enormous power through the management of privileged information of Galician citizenship. As far as substance is concerned, I am going to refer to nine issues which are basic to us and which are not considered, or which are envisaged by a misdirected approach, in our view, of this law. First of all, move from red tape to digital bureaucracy. There is no substantial improvement in access to services in this standard, because there is no substantial simplification of procedures. What is produced is a change of support in which this relationship is produced, but not a simplification. So there's a mantra that repeats itself, too, which is that, as a result of digitization, a simplification is made. But already the fact of the digital certificate itself — as a case in point — is something that makes it difficult to relate to a segment of the population. And no measures are laid down that contribute to simplifying all that simple digitization of bureaucracy. Secondly, what we call, what is called, "digital exclusion." There are no measures — and we are already in the development of a basic state standard — that promote equity in access to service. Access to new technologies, in our opinion, must be guaranteed on an equal footing for the whole population. This means ensuring subjective recognition of the right to universal access to knowledge, from universal access to networks, from universal access to tools, which avoids the digital and social exclusion that is currently suffering from a part of citizenship. And none of this is certain, nothing of this is spoken of, in the development and recognition of rights in the norm itself. Secondly, more obligations are laid down, but no more rights are established for the whole of citizenship. Different obligations are met for the use of digital services, but it is not specified how access to these services will be facilitated to citizenship. In addition, there is a very good opportunity to resolve legally frequent problems that have occurred during these years as a result of the use of ICT in inter-administrative relations and administrative relations with citizenship. And I'm going to refer to a very specific case that we brought here to Parliament a number of groups last year, which was the fall of Lexnet's service, that is to say the service of notification of the judges with the legal operators and with citizenship. Well, it's not solved here which is the method, or what happens if there's a service interruption or a network crash, or a momentary interruption that can leave an administrative procedure or the procedure for its resumption. They don't solve the security cracks either, the case of data theft that can be taken advantage of for cyberattacks, or, as a result, a theft of them. Well, we could use it. Apart from that, I'm talking about a case that happened in Galicia, a robbery and a fall that left vulnerable data from — I think it was — 600,000 files. Nothing more and nothing less! Well, we can use this rule to give that situation a security boost. It's not done, and we don't know why. In any case, we call on the reflection that we must take advantage of and learn from our own experience and mistakes. Next, digital exclusion occurs in the third age. There are a number of problems that are covered by no solution or budget. The simple application of this rule will lead many of the municipalities — to which other speakers are referred here — to municipalities with aged population, with older citizens — who have more difficulty in accessing themselves through digital means, have to have staff, more staff or new staff, to carry out a series of procedures and help the people who can develop them so that they can meet the obligations already established in this law in an immediate and progressive manner. Well, it's not budgeted what the impact can be. It doesn't work out how it's gonna fit in. There is therefore a declaration of new duties without the establishment of facilities for the fulfilment of new duties. There is also randomity in attributing the obligation of digital communication. It is not established in the law itself which criteria are to establish the mandatory use of electronic communications from the Administration with other collectives who, because of their capacity, can communicate in this way. Finally, as far as the law is concerned, it will remain in a discretionary decision of the administration itself, which will collectively increase the collective, depending on what, in that case, establishes a regulatory development. However, the subject of gradually attributing obligations should also be collected in the norm itself, with legal rank, as it is opted for by the rule with legal rank. Next, the Administration demands but does not do its duties. And, remembering again the Administration of Justice and some of its computer applications, I would like to remind you that there are still difficulties today, for example, for the introduction of people's identification data by their DNI or their identification of names and surnames in the Minerva software database, which is the computer application management program of the Administration of Justice. There is also a complete incompatibility of programs between the Minerva program and videoconferencing programs, programs from other autonomous communities, etc. And none of this is solved in this norm, nothing of this is referred to. Besides, it happens, side by side to this, another question, which is imposed as duty but which also implies the fulfilment of a duty by the Administration. This scan imposes a number of duties which do not exempt from compliance with the arrival of documents already available by the Administration, but which are available to them on paper support and not on digital support. By setting a basic example: the DNI, when it has been approached on paper to the Administration in that or another procedure, is also required to the citizen, when it is normal that the Administration, if it has that document, already incorporates it digitally and the citizen is not required to re-enter it by digital means; because, if not, an obligation already established by the Common Administrative Procedure Act, which is the one that no data is already required under the Administration itself. Secondly, no standard channels of interoperability between administrations are established here. And I'm going to refer again to the programs used by the Galician Public Administration, the Galician Public Administration; for example, those of the Galician Tax Agency with the management programs of the Administration of Justice itself, the lawyers and lawyers of the Administration of Justice, for example, for the fulfilment of obligations arising from judicial resolutions. There's nothing about this, and it's going to be a great opportunity to do it. Nor are the necessary security conditions laid down for data to flow properly without information leaks and with regard to the provisions of data protection regulations, both Community and State. And I again refer to the examples of Lexnet's fall of security last year. In addition, there is a disregard for functional diversity. It is not regulated how access to people with functional diversity will be guaranteed, because it is not envisaged in the project mechanisms to ensure absolute equality and the absence of barriers to access for people with functional diversity. There is also, in our view, a digital social exclusion. It's speaking of the norm, of course, of collectives at risk of digital exclusion, but the mechanisms to avoid digital exclusion are not collected. On the one hand, today — the current situation — there are no social rates available for people at risk of exclusion, or for families with economic difficulties, etc. And at the same time, as a result of the presentation of this project, there are no public mechanisms to correct this situation. I am not going to mention myself and I am not going to stop anymore in that situation that we denounced at the beginning of legislation, when access to certain groups at risk of social exclusion to certain aids could only be formulated by digital means, so that people who could not pay the bill of light were required to do the proceedings by telematics. Well, the chance to solve it was now. I'm going to finish, Mr. President. I just want to relate also problems with restriction of competition and territorial digital exclusion. This law is also repeatedly spoken here about people's digital training to promote equality and citizenship participation; however, this is not possible without the broadband network reaching all corners of our country. I'm going to give you a specific example in the Town Hall of Barrella. It was a real case. In the Town Hall of Baralla there are no free pairs, which is the connection structure that a company has to leave to compete and pass it on to Telephonic. Access to the network cannot be guaranteed, nor, therefore, the promotion of the economy or the wealth generated by commerce etc. — all the good things you have just spoken about — when competition is not really facilitated and mechanisms are not established to verify that competition is effective without direct territorial exclusion due to lack of technological capacity, precisely because of non-compliance with the companies currently having fibre monopoly or acting in monopoly regimes in certain municipalities to prevent even the other competitors from accessing it. For all these reasons, we believe that it is necessary to return the project and a reformulation throughout its extension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u15	Thank you, Mr. Villares. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Welcome, Counselor. Think for a moment about mobile phones that were only used a few years ago and now check those in your hands, with GPS, digital fingerprint and excellent camera. Digital evolution has been constant, seeking gradually to offer users and companies new digital advances. To cook, to organize day by day, to contact friends or to organize a journey, we use digital media, to virtually all day-to-day activities. You have already been indicated by the Fatenda advisor at the beginning of his intervention in the presentation of this bill: 96.1% of citizens have mobile phones, almost 54% use smart phones, and 50% make use of social networks. New technologies are integrated into society, and more and more are indispensable for everyday life. Mr. Villoslada, I have to make a note to you, and you may not know that Amtega is functionally dependent on the Business Council following the decrees of structure of the Galician Board approved three years ago. I teach him, because he hits me with my head, and I tell him it's Decree 176/2016, of December 15th. [[Applause]] And I continue with the people who preceded me in the use of the word, Mr. Bará, Mr. Villoslada and, as otherwise, Mr. Villares. Why do they oppose progress? Why do they oppose progress? [[Murmurs.]] In short, why are they opposed to everything that benefits the Greeks and the Greeks? I don't understand. We found ourselves in the presence of a new request for the bill to be returned by the entire opposition. Once again, when a brave government commits reforms in the administration, the opposition wants to put them down. It's already happened in 2010 with the Autonomic Administration Organization Act. For the first time, the structures of the departments and instrumental bodies of the Union were homogenized, and the whole opposition was amended. It also happened in 2013 with the Law on the Rationalization of Self-Government. Self-supply mechanisms were created not to take care of what can be done with their own means, and the whole opposition has been amended. It happened in 2015 with the Public Employment Act, and with the regulation of professional careers and performance assessment mechanisms; as it does not, it amends the whole opposition. Again in 2015, with the Public Service Quality Assurance Act, with the regulation of citizen participation mechanisms in the evaluation of public services and measures to be taken by the Administration to improve through these data, and it has been amended to the full extent of the opposition. Today it could not be any less, every time this Government takes a step to modernize, rationalize and optimize the administration's operation, it finds itself with great resistance. And curiously, against what many people might think, these resistances are not the staff that is working precisely on the brink of those laws — in a way that unites the staff table has evaluated the bill we are discussing today. Resistance always comes from opposition groups. This bill is the culmination of the administrative reform process carried out by the government of Feijóo since 2009, with the Law on the Organization and Operation of Administration, 2010; the Law on Rationalization, of the year 2013; the Law on the Guarantee of Administration and Quality of Public Services, in 2015; and the Law on Transparency and Good Government, of 2015. This law was the cornerstone to achieve the comprehensive reform of the Public Administration, so that it would be more effective, more efficient, more orderly, more transparent, more quality and fully digitized. And, as being common in this whole process, we have the opposition against it. In addition to their opposition, they give us again a particular lesson of coherence, and also a small example of what we can expect of governments that have to live together. While the amendment to the whole of En Marea tells us that digital administrative regulation should not be done with a rank of law, socialists say that this law does not like it and recognize that the new stage and the new challenges require a legislative framework that provides Galicia with a new regulation. And if not, the Galician Nationalist Block goes further, and says that it should give them the rank of law to aspects that are already present in documents approved by the Government. So in a hypothetical tripartite government among you, we don't know if we would have any law — as you would like in Marea — another law — as the Socialist Party wants — or even more legislation — as the Galego Nationalist Block wants. Maybe the middle point would be to make the middle law. That would be the set model of the opposition. [[Applause]] Probably because leaving things in half is their specialty when they rule together. And there are other contradictions that we find when they talk about deficiencies in the law. The Galician Nationalist Block says there's no mention of citizen participation. Mr Bará, we can agree that you can sink into this, and we'll see it in the presentation. But, look, the Transparency Act of 2016, which allowed a bill such as, for example, that of natural heritage — which has just entered Parliament — had received more than one hundred and twenty suggestions from citizenship, did not receive the vote of the Nationalist Block Galego. The law of citizen participation in this Parliament, which allows us to debate in this plenary session and in the committees proposals not of a popular initiative law, took the vote against the Nationalist Block Galego. It is therefore curious that they ask this rule to regulate citizen participation, because they bring here the rules that regulate it and you vote against it. Mr. Villares and Mr. Villoslada, they say that this law does not guarantee the necessary infrastructure so that citizens can access the digital administration, which does not guarantee the extension of the broadband or attacks the digital divide. Look, there's already been a specific law dedicated to that which was discussed in this Parliamentary House, the Law on the encouragement of telecommunications infrastructures in Galicia. And you know what you voted for? They voted against it. Even so, this Government, the Government of the People's Party, has continued to bet, but not only with laws like the ones I have just appointed, but also with budgets. And I'm going to give you data: double this year, in 2019, the broadband budget with 8 million euros to continue the extension on networks of 100 megas in more than 400 rural nuclei and the improvement of connectivity in isolated companies; 14 million euros to advance in the digitization of the Administration; and about 4 million euros to strengthen the security and availability of digital public services. I didn't hear any data from the people who preceded me in the use of the word. I don't know, but I'm still going to give them more — INE data — 82.6% of the Greek homes have contracted the Internet, with an increase of almost 5% over the previous year and above the growth of the state's whole — of 3.6% —. But, of course, Mr Villoslada, after the Minister of Economy in office, Mrs Nadia Calvino, say as Minister of Economy — well, Minister in office — and Chairman of the Commission Delegate who smoothes the rules imposed on telephone companies to take the internet to the rural environment... and you know what happens? The result is that people have access to digital networks much worse than initially planned. That's what the Socialist Party does in the Spanish Government. So I understand you're upset. You tell your president. This pretext that you are commenting on to oppose this law, which does not regulate aspects that you see as fundamental, is not credible. Because laws that regulated those aspects have already come to this House, were the prerequisite for making this law now. And you didn't support any of these previous texts that raise those issues that you now see as important. They doubt it doesn't guarantee digital inclusion. First of all, this is not a law of digital society, it's a law that regulates the digital functioning of the administration. So it's a rule rule of administration, from which digital inclusion actions are not objected. I think they might understand the difference; especially because the first regulatory law of the digital functioning of the Administration was a law of the year 2007, approved by the Government of Zapatero. And they didn't count on votes in favor of the People's Party, but also of the United Left and the Nationalist Block of Wales. And that law didn't have a single reference to digital inclusion plans, but it was limited to regulating changes in the administration's functioning. There's a difference, that's true. And it's just that that law didn't regulate digital inclusion, but the government that presented it didn't make any effort on it either. This Government of Galicia, on the other hand, can present this Administration's digitization law because it has previously made a very important effort in the issue of digital inclusion. The Galician Union approved in April 2016 the Galician Digital Inclusion Plan 2020. We have a CeMIT network, in collaboration with the municipalities, which served 80,000 people in 2018, and wants to reach 88,000 in 2019. More than 35,000 hours of digital training and 98 classes were distributed in the municipalities. And there's results, I'm going to give data on some reports that are public. In rural areas, the 2018 report of the Galician Information Society Observatory on the rural environment reflects that households with Internet and broadband hired in rural countries increased from 63% in 2015 to 75% in 2017. As for older people, since 2011 -- according to INE data -- the use of the Internet between Greeks aged 55 and 64 has increased by 145%, the second largest increase in the Spanish set. As for the gender gap, studies on the information society from a gender perspective reveal that the digital divide has descended in Galicia in recent years, at 0.7%; when the Spanish average is 1.8% and in the European Union at 3%. So there's work done on digital inclusion. But besides the law takes precautions to ensure that in this new model of digital administration no one is excluded. First, by ensuring an offer of courses and certificates of digital competences to facilitate access to digital competences throughout the city, as the advisor has already commented. Secondly, and as a last resort for that citizen who does not have his own digital literacy, who has not used the CeMIT classes or who has not done the digital competition courses, ultimately ensuring that he can delegate, to an official empowered to do so, the digital processing of his affairs. I mean, it's a law that makes administration fully available to citizens. I'd make it easier for you to use the Internet if you know how to use it, I'd make it easier for you to acquire the skills to use the Internet if you don't have them, and finally, I'd assure you that there was a person who did it for them. There is no possibility that anyone will be excluded from this digital administration model. No, Mr. Villares. And already, to laugh at the rizo, it's very curious that the same opposition groups who usually go up to this stage saying that the Galician Union acts without planning, now they criticize that this law does not incorporate additional staffing. Because precisely their approval is already provided for in the planning instruments from those which the Board has drawn up its budgets. And just as Mr. Villares says no, I'm going to tell you that in the Digital Administration and Government Plan, adopted in 2016, exactly on page 78, it says, "It should update autonomic regulations based on the new state development." I give you more data: the Amtega management contract, 2018-2021 — which Mr Bará didn't like in 2020 — approved once the new law came into force —page 47, target 7 (Adopting the Galician Digital Administration Bill)—. So actually, the adoption of this law does not require a budgetary change, but not because its actions do not require it but because this budget is adjusted to the forecast of the adoption of this law. As for the accessibility of people with functional diversity, it's true that in the presentation we can move forward in a greater degree of security of accessibility of digital administration. But I would like to remind you of one thing: since 2016 it is guaranteed by decree the existence in the offices of attention to the citizenship of the board of an interpretation service for deaf people and the validity of telephone processing of complaints and suggestions for blind people is shielded. A 2015 Law development decree guaranteeing the quality of public services, to which you all voted against. So if we can incorporate further progress in the introduction of this law into the accessibility of these people, we hope this time, as a novelty, to support them. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you will recapitulate, because we are faced with a bill that is the cornerstone that was missing to achieve the comprehensive reform of the Public Administration, so that it is more effective, more efficient, more orderly, more transparent, of greater quality and very — or fully — digitized. This law has two fundamental objectives: to legally shield the scanning mechanisms that have been put in place in recent years, such as electronic headquarters or electronic signature; and to give legal guarantees to the administrative actions arising from these new mechanisms — for example, automatic extensions of deadlines when there are interruptions in the system — and, as a second objective, to use this digitization of the Administration to change the way to provide services, moving to a more proactive management model that uses the data that manages the citizenship. Look, they'll understand the law with this example. When the Administration has the news, through the Health Administration, of the birth of a baby, we want to make it possible for the Administration, if the user so authorizes, to offer the card processing automatically Welcome to those parents who know they have rights. Or, when a company registers in an administrative register, the Administration may offer, according to the data it has, direct access to those aids or programmes from which it may benefit. Moreover, the law confronts the administration's adaptation to digital administration in an inclusive way, ensuring that no one is excluded. The law will guarantee an offer of courses and certificates — as I said earlier — and it needs exactly that, therefore, it does not start from zero. Part of the advance in the extension of digital infrastructures and previous administration scanning projects...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u17	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u18	...—end, Mr President—which makes one step further with three principles—and the advisor very well told us—: only once, proactivity and automation of the processes. Ladies and gentlemen, the Galician Digital Administration Bill will consolidate a fully digital administration and universalize the use and access of citizenship to digital public services. I do not want to finish my intervention without transferring on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group congratulations on this magnificent work to the whole of the Greek Government, on the commitment, on the work and dedication that this bill brings to improve the life of the Greeks and the Greeks. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u19	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez. Replica of amending groups. [[Pause.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u20	Mrs. Vázquez, you came here to tell us that I don't know how many people in the country have smart phones. He failed to say it was thanks to the People's Party Meeting. Because it's okay, isn't it? [[Applause]] It's less bad that society is moving forward, less bad that there are roads, that there are mobile phones, that there are vehicles, that there are bicycles... and you come here to teach us lessons in progress and modernity. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Well, look, get out of the cave, get out of that ideological prehistory where you're installed. Get out of these pacts with people who say women have the right to cut their nails and cut their hair, but they don't have the right to abort! [[Applause]] And they also expel their members who pronounce Machist attacks, as did the mayor of Vilanova, and many other militants of the People's Party. [[Applause]] That's modernity too, not just technology. So don't come here to teach lessons from anything, because they don't teach lessons from anything. And you talked about the gender gap. Indeed, it has increased the use of the Internet by women and diminished that gap. But the gap in technology is much more expensive; for example, it also has access to scientific and technological professions. And the reality is that the percentage of women in the science careers in Galicia has fallen ten points in the last decade. And data are particularly worrying about careers, engineering, and also about computer science, where the gender gap is even bigger, with 13% of women currently enrolled in Galicia. That's also a generation gap in digital technology! And these questions must also be looked at, Mrs Vázquez. Look, the question — I think it's clear — is that this law and all the legislation that there is does not guarantee a fair society in what it has to do with access to the Internet and information and communication technologies. And it does not effectively fight the gap in this matter because we are talking — according to data from the Ministry of Economics, data from the INE, which highlight the difference that Galicia has in this matter — that we are in the last positions of the state, at the last place. So what are we talking about? There are 26,000 population nuclei in this country that don't have access to the ultra-fast broadband, and that's a disadvantage and a difficulty to be in the world competitively and with access to all services. Because we defend — and this law does not guarantee it — that access to information and communication technologies must be a fundamental human right. And so it was done in the most advanced countries in this area, such as Estonia. Estonia is the most advanced country in Europe in this area. And there's a central issue in the law that is, for example, the digital impulse, the whole society's access to the digital world and to the digital administration. Do you know how many articles you spend in law on this issue? Three articles that hardly say anything. And the reality is that your CeMIT network is an absolute failure, it's a failure. Yes, it's a failure. And we defend, as we have already told you, that this law should relate to the whole administration, to all administrations. Let us hope that the advisor will then be able to clarify how this entire network of attention and registration offices will be implemented and developed; and how, for example, rights will be addressed in the case of people living abroad, because the law does not define this issue and there are major difficulties in this matter. As far as participation is concerned, you say that the BNG has not approved the law of transparency and good government. Because we don't believe in that decoration that you build. It's false, it's false, there's no such participation. There is more and more distance, more difficulties and fewer mechanisms for participation, transparency and democracy. And the processing data on the projects and plans shows that. And then we understand that there's an absolutely central issue. Let's hope the councillor tells us something about this because we already see that the spokesperson for the People's Party did not want to enter this debate. It's the parallel administration that they're creating with the excuse of all these regulations that come from Europe and that what they're creating is a gigantic, privatized monster in services that are fundamental and that have to do with the management of personal and confidential information and data. And there are companies like Indra, chaired by Fernando April-Martorell, technology partner of the Union, accused of Punica; or Everis, whose vice president Eduardo Serra, who was Minister of Aznar, also has connections and manages fundamental services of the administration. And I have here some contracts, by the way, that have been renewed since 2010 and 2012 to the same companies: the single social history, which manages Indra, or the electronic clinical history, which also manages Indra; and others that manages, for example, Everes, like the Pasaxe platform, which has managed it since its beginnings. Because in the end, as I told you earlier, it's contracts that these companies have because they develop technology and knowledge, software, and, in the end, they're the beneficiaries of all these contracts. Anyway, I think it became clear what the intentions of this law are, what the evasive ones are, what the difficulties are for a large part of the population to access digital administration and the digital world and what this law does not solve.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u21	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u22	That's why we ask the Government to return, to reform this law, to improve it. And, Mrs. Vázquez, I would like to clarify one question: we didn't say that there should be more laws, to see if you understand correctly, or if you explain correctly. What we said is that what this law does is to unify all the regulations that have been passed in recent years. Don't come here wanting to make us say something else that we didn't say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u23	Thank you, Mr Bará. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u24	Thank you, President. Mrs Vázquez, as spokesperson for the People's Group, made us several recommendations in an exercise of little humility, I think. Because he told us we left things in the middle when we had a chance to rule. He made a reference to what we had recapitulated in terms of the country's modernization, of digital modernization. But who has to reflect is the People's Party. Don't you realize that more than 40% of Galicia's population in the cities of Galicia does not accept the ways of ruling the People's Party, nor in terms of administration? Don't you realize? The truth, and with all due respect, seems to me — I take it with the courtesy needed — of a certain insolence to make that kind of recommendation today. [[Applause]] Article 1 of the bill literally says: "The law has a purpose" — it is in the frontispice of the law — "not only to pass on to the new model of digital administration of the autonomic public sector but also to implement and encourage the adoption of the necessary measures to incorporate the potential of digital technologies into the design of public policies in the modernization of the autonomic sector and in the drive of the Greek economy." And Article 3 also states that among the purposes of the law is to serve as the engine and economic impulse of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. So what are we left with, Mrs Vázquez? I suppose you'll clarify it better later, Mr. Counselor. Are we facing a law that will also boost the digital economy in Galicia? What do we talk about when we talk about the law, Mrs. Vázquez, isn't it a law of digital society? What is digital society for the People's Party? We need those clarifications. The Ministry's data on broadband extension in Galicia are those that are, are there, measured with the same indicators. Galicia was the autonomous community that made the smallest effort percent to extend the population of Galicia — not to the territory, which there are territorial difficulties — the whole of the broadband. Galicia only made an effort of 1.5 points from 2017 to 2018. That's the commitment, that's the commitment. The Ministry's reports are there, not advertisements and advertisements. We need to know — you did not do so, Mrs Vázquez, and I suppose if the Counsellor will clarify it, because we insist that it seems a relevant issue to us — as, above all, this overview of the compromises of the law in the matter of driving the Greek economy, urged the Government of Greece not to ask for the preliminary ruling of the Economic and Social Council in Galicia. I insist, it was a warning from the General Legal Counsel of Galicia itself. Amtega, in the report contained in the preliminary draft, is limited to saying that it has no direct or direct link to the economy and the social development of Galicia and point, and point! And the General Secretariat of the Presidency, to close the file, says it's what Amtega says, that there's nothing else to say. We need explanations, Mr Counsellor, of why a fundamental and binding dictation has not been requested from the ESC in Galicia. [[Applause]] There are a number of issues that we pointed out in our preliminary intervention, but we consider it essential to insist on them as well. We insist on our part, on the amendment to the whole, on the title of the law itself, because we believe that it is a law that cannot be called "digital administration of the Galician Set", but it is a law — which is, and nothing more than that — of the implementation of the basic state rules for the autonomous public sector of Galicia, and hence does not move forward. We also insist on the need — which did not make any reference to Mrs Vázquez — to know what the commitment of the Greek Government to the drive of digital administration also in the local authorities of Galicia — as a matter of priority where they have less capacities and, of course, in coordination with the provincial parliaments — is to be made. We also insist on the absolute need, and I suppose we will have the opportunity to debate it, and I hope that we will have the opportunity to reach agreements, to establish a true catalogue, which was put in doubt, of the digital rights of citizenship in the process of amendments to the articulate. We also consider it absolutely necessary to deepen our commitments to avoid the digital divide also in people with intellectual disabilities — it is an important reference — and also in the field of people who are in the most disconnected rural environment, by the way. We would also consider it important that the new legal commitments in terms of accessibility to information in the Official Journal of Galicia allow for a consolidated understanding of the legislation and the autonomic acquis — there are contrasting experiences in that sense — and we hope that in that whole debate the obligations and commitments of staff who are designated as persons delegated to the protection of data have precisely assigned their functions with absolute independence and with the absolute guarantees laid down in the state basic data protection legislation. There are a number of issues that we also demand, such as ensuring the balanced presence of men and women in all bodies provided for in the Law in the field of digital administration. And a theme also fundamental to us will be the commission of the people's Valator institution, as Commissioner of Transparency, precisely the function of ensuring the digital rights of citizenship. I hope, Counsellor, that by not clarifying Mrs Vázquez, of course, many of the issues that are supported by the amendments to the whole that have been tabled by our parliamentary group, if they are to be clarified. And I insist on the preceptive dictatorship of the CES de Galicia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u25	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Vázquez, I agree with the Socialist Party that you come here to break the prudence in which we were developing the debate, with terms that were substantially enriching, something we regret. You start by saying that we oppose progress. Well, we oppose social exclusion and privatization. That's what we said. So if for you that is to oppose progress, we have a different idea of what progress is. We understand that we can't leave anyone behind in the process of digitizing our country. And you don't care. Because you were 15 minutes old and you could have used them to beat up the eight substantive points of right breach, in relation to equity and universal access, by this norm, and you didn't. Then you'll know why. Nor did they question all the euvas related to the privatisation process explicitly deduced from this rule. If what bothers you is political criticism and they'd rather have us muffled, for bad luck, they don't touch them today. He could come here and explain and refute the political criticism we made of the rule. To begin with, in relation to territorial exclusion, there are councils that have no access possibility because they are not complying with competition rules in relation to companies that wear fiber optics, for example. He could say something about it and he didn't say anything. With regard to social exclusion, it is possible to refer to how the recognition of new rights could be incorporated, or to the ease of fulfilling the new obligations, rather. And he didn't say anything either. And then, in relation to exclusion from functional diversity, I'm grateful to you that you recognize that, in fact, it's not being fulfilled there. We will see each other in the debate on partial amendments, then. We thought it was better to reform everything, but if not, we'll see ourselves in the partials. You say the opposition comes from the opposition groups but from the staff. Look, you could walk through the courthouses of Galicia. At the PP they're very busy walking around, but to collect convictions for corruption. They could walk for a different reason. Look, for example, to think about what the judicial staff think about paper zero, what they're supposed to end up with in the administration of justice. It's printing more paper than ever, more than ever! So you're wondering what rule is failing or what budget allocation is failing to keep the paper zero in nothing, you're printing more paper than ever by the Administration. Second, go through the judges and ask them for the modernization of the judicial office and for the modernization of technological resources to apply to the new judicial office, and for the endless waits and frequent falls on the server to perform, for example, video conferencing. Come in and listen. Thirdly, something as basic as what you did here, which is to develop in the English language, could not do with the Minerva program. You could ask that everything be processed in German and suffer a several months delay in notification of the judicial resolution affecting you, because there is no way to deal with correctness and normality in the Greek language. So, if you want to talk about the complaints that the staff have, you can go through the judges. He didn't make any reference to sensitive data breach either. There has been a fall, there have been several server down during the past year, and no means of solving this type of fall and security errors are established here. Look, they discovered sensitive data, burnt protective floors for women victims of gender-based violence, uncovered bank secrets and commercial secrets. And that's all without using this opportunity to regulate it. You say this isn't a digital inclusion standard. For that reason we also ask that it be returned, because it is attributing new duties without also, inter alia, establishing social inclusion rules to ensure that those duties can be met fairly and that the extension of rights is the same for the whole population and for the whole territory. That's why we asked for the withdrawal. Yes, it's a political criticism. Of course, we don't agree to that. That you don't care about it is something we already knew. But they could at least be a little more prudent. They say this is not necessary because there are already other previous rules. There are other previous rules, but this adaptation introduces new duties and therefore innovation, as well as technological and material and personal means, should be introduced, which had a budget allocation. That's why we're not worth the previous allocation, because new obligations are being attributed that must go in parallel with new material and personal resources. Because if we don't, we'll re-enlarge the social divide and the territorial divide. As an inventory, since you refer to the tripartite, yes, I think the parties that we compose here the progressive bench can collaborate. And we are working together by making criticisms that are complementary and that seek exclusively to deepen social cohesion, territorial cohesion and to avoid the exclusion of people with functional diversity and social exclusion. I think they're all complementary criticisms and what you could take note of. But no, the only tripartite you're talking about is that "triphachito", first in Andalusia and now surely in other autonomous communities and other municipalities where they certainly have other essential values: corruption, cuts and machismo, the broth of the new fascism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u27	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Close for the Government, Mr. Landlord.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u28	Thank you, Mr. President, again. A little intervention. Indeed, I agree that, listening to you, the truth is that the tone was truly right and good, despite the different joys. Because listening to them seems like we all win in Sunday elections. It's a wonderful thing. But, well, that was already known — the Socialist Party alone —. Something similar happened in 2015. And we're in 2019, talking about topics from the Galician Parliament with a much different political composition than that one, which had their hands rubbed as well. Even though there were more members then, than they are now in the En Marea Group. Then, therefore, tranquility. And, as the English say, keep calm and carry on. Let's go a little ahead and quietly, Mr. Bará. Also in tone, also in tone. Because, listening to them, I do believe that the champion of the world at the local level was the Nationalist Block, right? I don't think so. So I don't like teaching. Sometimes I have a teacher touch but I don't like teaching. When you, Mr Bará, refer to the digital paradise promised for 2020... at the Council of Meeting we meet -- Thursdays, usually, and tomorrow seems to me to be Wednesday -- and there is not as much as we just said, that it is already advanced from mid-May what is the new digital strategy until 2030. If there is a sector within the Administration that works with strategic planning and programming criteria, including indicators, to be criticised and to be evaluated by others, it is the sector that is in principle running Amtega. And it marks a real paradigm within the autonomous administration, comparable to any national level, as I think there are a few. And on that subject, there are also certain inconsistencies that are always mentioned here. One question is economic memoirs and something else, indeed, when it is found that if there is any sector of the Administration with the approved programme contract where there are more or less predetermined funds, never insured — that this is ensured by the budget law of each year — it is in the administration sector. For that, we also need to read the program contracts. So, that of the digital paradise promised in all of 2020... with all due respect, I have just made progress that here is quite a win, at least until 2030. It's been noticed that the new strategic plan will go down to 2027 and here we're talking about 2030. Be calm, Mr. Bará. So there's little propaganda. And I agree with what Mrs Vázquez has just said, because really in some of the watery issues that the three groups were saying, if we add them all together with respect to the local administration... you, where local public administrations are, were asking for a law that was almost mandatory for local administrations. The PSOE, he felt otherwise — and I am more in line with the position of the PSOE — says that one thing is our competences — among them is that of promotion, of inclusion, indeed, and the whole economic sphere of a general nature, and now I will also refer at a time to the ICT ecosystem in Galicia -- so if I add, in a watering matter like that of the public administrations in Galicia, what you have been saying, is a zero-sum game. A zero sum game means we have at least one text, which is most important, to try to develop in the presentation. They do not deny the value of the word, they do not deny the value of the reasoning, they do not deny that among all we can improve the text; a text as few was in this House, very few, in which a fundamental question, such as that the Committee on Staff of the Administration-Junta is able to reach this House unanimously. Does that bother you, too? For something it will be. I don't think all unions have a sensitivity that matches the administration. Please! I don't think the entire ICT sector, in the majority sector, has a total and absolute coincidence with this administration. The ICT sector, in fact, represents more than 2.5%. Indeed, more than twelve thousand and some workers, and going up, with very important locating factors on two chickens, as it can be in the Coruña and up to a certain point in Santiago. I wish I could see more about Galician chickens too. That's the reality. We know thousands of companies. Something we'll be doing right when through your participation we're able to come to this law. I do believe, Mr. Villares, and I very much appreciate the tone employed and the dominion which from my point of view had upon this matter, that there is inconsistencies which I detect. It cannot be said, on the one hand, that deficiency is part of the necessity of a law and, on the other hand, at point (b) to break into such a correct way, as it was breaking down, certain points — and I do not agree with many of them in the approach it gave them, but perfectly structured—. Because then he's denying the bigger one. Basically, what you were asking for in the eight points that have been decimating is a regulatory development — regulationist and tied — that would prevent the first one. So there's an inconsistencies in the formulation you're proposing, inconsistencies that I think most of the role of a parliament, which is, through the presentation, to enrich a text that is already sufficiently written at the moment. By the way, Mr. Villoslada, you won't catch me in that saductive trap on the subject of the alleged incoherence of not approaching the ESC where this law may be. You're already assuming what they're going to solve on certain issues, when there are administration bodies, with maximum transparency...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u29	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u30	...that they convey their opinion, that they convey their opinion and remain in writing. But there are others who say otherwise. Nobody has the truth, Mr. Villoslada, don't go champion for life, because... even though I have the low tone, it's noticed that I too have the low tone because there's no shooting going around. So I think there's a very interesting stage of presentation if we all want to work. And he deserves it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u31	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u32	...this inclusion for both people and businesses. Because we all deserve an autonomous public administration in essence better and simpler. And on the other hand, the whole sector is becoming dynamic, as is being corroborated in our economy. And all I want is for all of us to work hard on the presentation to enrich this text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u33	Thank you, Counselor. Debate taken into account by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, of budgetary modification for the impulse of an improvement plan in primary care
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u34	For the presentation of the bill, you have the word dona Montserrat Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u35	Good morning. Today the BNG brings here a bill. We brought another similar one a year ago, but since the situation of health in general, and of primary care in particular, has not changed, and that the actions by the People's Party's Union Government have been exclusively towards the gallery but practically without any realization, we bring this initiative—I insist. Since 2009 health care has suffered very important cuts in its budget, especially primary care. There has been a cumulative cut of 2,194 million euros in these ten years. And right now in the budgets for the year 2019 there are 1,248 million euros for primary care, so it's still EUR 188.7 million less than the year 2009; that is, ten years later a clearly lower budget. And, of course, this brutal budget cut has consequences on the quality of care that the population is receiving, which are receiving the Greeks and the Greeks. And, of course, it has implications for human resources, for materials and for infrastructure. A few days ago, a newspaper in our country, specifically the Vigo Lighthouse, published a survey, prepared for the same thing, in which it was established that for the Greeks and the Greeks health is the second major problem. Almost one in five citizens showed concern about the quality of health services, which is now in second place. Five years ago the second place in the concerns of the Greeks and the Greeks was corruption — thanks especially to the People's Party and its multiple cases of accused for this reason. And it turns out that now this second place of concern for the Greeks and the Greeks becomes the health, also as a result of the policies and practices of the People's Party. A basic foundation such as health is the reason for the greatest concern for the Greeks and the Greeks. And indeed, the effects of the cuts practised with the excuse of the crisis persist, because the objective was that these cuts would have consequences for a deterioration in public health. I insist: €2,194 million less invested in these ten years and €188.7 million in the 2019 budget compared to 2009. To this we must add that the per capita expenditure in Galicia is EUR 1,380, less than the average of the state, which is EUR 1,403. And besides, this is much more worrisome given the aging and dispersion of the population, the very characteristics that we have in our country. If we go to primary care, we have 40 percent of the coupons are massive, with more than 1,400 TIS per optional staff, when primary care societies establish that it has to be a maximum of 1,275 to guarantee quality care. If we go to certain areas, such as Vigo, this ratio is multi-folded, and there are professionals who are above 2,000 or 2,500 cards. There is scientific evidence that relates to the number of optionals by inhabitants and better health, or that there is a direct relationship between these human resources and general health indicators. We see how every day in our country's health centers because if you hang up posters indicating that your titular doctor, your titular doctor, does not consult today, and that you're going to ask where he has to go or who he's going to ask for an appointment again because today they won't be able to attend. That's being a constant, with waiting lists to give you an appointment for a week, ten days, fifteen days. It's a really worrying situation. But not only with regard to optional staff, which is a problem, of course, but this same situation occurs in the rest of the professional categories of primary care. In nursing there are quotas of 4,000 patients to attend, the double of the recommended. It is clear that this prevents a chronic care program or health promotion activities from being carried out; a situation in which there is no portfolio of nursing services; there are not enough staff to meet the needs of an increasingly aging population with increased demand for care. We've found that in primary care there's an abandonment of the brutal women's health care program, practically under minimum. There's no such integral attention to the woman throughout her life. And the ratios, for example, of the midwife are clearly insufficient. If we go to the administrative staff or to the janitors, there are centers where there is no such figure, or others where, when someone is missing, they come from one center to another. There are staff hired on average, when the headline makes a full day. We can talk about social workers, which is a very scarce staff in primary care. We can talk about physiotherapists, dentists and dentists, dental hygienists, which we also find with a clearly insufficient endowment. We can also talk, practically, about the lack of mental health care in primary care, and the needs of this care are resolved through measures that are almost exclusively pharmacological in the absence of staffing. We have therefore found that the lack of staff in health centres makes it very difficult, of course, to pay attention to the usual demand. And when the usual demand cannot be met, what can we talk about the attention to chronicity, people with disabilities or the marginalization of public health? Although it is an instrument to intervene on determining elements of the disease, it turns out that there is no capacity for action due to lack of personnel and resources for this purpose. This is an overview that led to the mobilization of professionals in their different fields: CAPs, ambulances, optional staff...; that is, all kinds of professionals to defend and claim dignity for primary care as an entry door to the health system and where a very important part of the population's health problems is solved. They demand budgeting, planning capacity, more personnel, ending precariously, solving the problems of different groups and time to devote to staff. This is not resolved by using technology as a replacement for the staff. Technology devices may be a complement, but personal needs are needed so they can go tabularly and go through and check for parameters that move those technology devices. There's an obvious level of overload and frustration between professionals and a level of concern and neglect in the population, also increasing. Of course, in the BNG we consider a shift in the health policy of the People's Party to begin with, of course, primary care. A shift of course that will not happen with the investment operation of the deficit, that phantom operation, that propaganda operation that the People's Party launched. Of course, the surplus investment operation will not solve the primary care problems because, among other things, the investment provided for by this measure is one-time, 16 million euros, and an important part of it has the forecast of targeting it to more technological devices and not what is being demanded, which is personal. Obviously, neither that totally insufficient shock plan will solve the problems of public health in Galicia. These problems do not go through that cosmetic and propaganda operation or that overactment to come to worry now and say that the solution goes through that little investment, or to hold the Central Government responsible, which obviously if it has responsibilities, to begin with, for the non-elimination of the replenishment rate and for not providing Galicia with the investment it needs for public health. But, to say it's a step by step, it's an insufficient amount that the People's Party has not questioned; it hasn't questioned how much Galician funding is in budgets that affects the state. So, we don't want to question the frame, we don't want to question what resources we have and then we do these surplus investment operations. That is why the BNG brings here today this bill, which proposes an immediate increase in the resources allocated to primary care, with a budgetary change to the rise — of course — of 273.3 million euros for this year 2019; an increase of twenty-two percent of the investment to put it on average ten years ago, on average! Yes, because if we have one hundred eighty-eight million euros less, ten years later it's supposed to have at least one more reasonable increase in 2009. The bill is based on a series of changes aimed at achieving those resources for an improvement plan for primary care, but for it to be implemented at the moment. Because this decline in primary care resources in these ten years of the People's Party's rule of law, of course, has consequences. We propose, therefore, that immediate increase which means a real turning point; not "let's do, let's look, let's go study, let's propose", but real, effective and immediate, that it should stop that deterioration and start a process of recovery and improvement. We propose a budgetary change for the increase of these cuts by acting in two directions: first, by introducing tax changes, and then, then, changes in the state of budget expenditure by the year 2019. With tax changes, we expect about one hundred and eighty-five million euros and with changes in the state of expenditure, eighty-eight million euros, which gives that total of two hundred seventy-three million euros. Are there possible changes? Of course I do. What is needed for them to be produced and we have those resources for primary care? Politically, want to do it; not to be in these distracting maneuvers in which the People's Party is: that if the state does not leave us, that if we cannot... it is possible to do it, and we, of course, bring here an initiative that proves that if it is possible to do it. It's about setting priorities, and priorities are about extracting resources from those who have the most and subtracting resources from economic activity which should be paying much more than what you're doing to meet something as fundamental and essential as the public health of our country. So with the introduction of tax amendments, we propose the change of the IRPF, so that greater progress is introduced on the scale on which we have competence to do so — in which the Government of Greece has competences — with which twenty-four million euros would be obtained, and a decrease in the lowest incomes and the increase in the highest incomes. Progressivity, not that pairing that was made with what seemed to be a downside, when what was done was to act on those blocks that were practically exempt and that they no longer had to tax; those distractions that we were used to. This question is perfectly feasible. Another action would be on the property tax: we set the minimum exempt in €300,000 instead of €700,000. It seems to us that an asset of €300,000 is enough for it to be taxed accordingly, and from there we drew €30.8 million. Then there's also action on the derogation from the change in the succession tax, which also approved by the People's Party in 2015, and of what we raised 40 million euros. This tax already had multiple exemptions, so the change in 2015 basically benefited high income. What we propose is the reversal of that modification so that high incomes continue to pay like what they are, high incomes, for something as fundamental as health care. We have created a tax on large commercial areas, which have an impact on the social, economic and environmental fields. Of course, at BNG we believe that they should be taxed or, at least, compensate for those impacts, and of that tax we would raise thirty million euros. Also an environmental tax on the high-voltage electricity transport network, from which we would raise one million euros, and a tax on over-sugar beverages, a tax that exacerbates the consumption of beverages sugared by harmful products that are for health, which we would achieve eleven million euros. With which, these changes are possible and feasible. I insist that what is needed is political will to carry them out and to do it immediately. For what? For the staffing — I insist — in all categories...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u36	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u37	...the increase in numbers of professionals for good attention to public health in primary care...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u38	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u39	...to be able to make — already finished — replacements that are needed, improve equipment, allow access to diagnostic tests and start a training process, taking into account that fifty-three percent of primary care students are already over fifty-five years old.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u40	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. You have another shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u41	Finished, President. We believe that measures are feasible and I hope that the groups will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u42	Thank you very much. Mr Torrido Quintela has the floor by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u43	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of us, after this complicated time of work. Well, from our group, of course, we want to support this bill. Perhaps, if you had the right to deal with it and if you consider it — which is what we predict is difficult, but we do not lose hope — we could certainly have some discrepancy on some of the issues that are being raised, with some nuance, but in general we believe that the essence of what you are proposing is quite right. This is not the first time that a bill is being proposed to modify budget splits and add more content to primary care. The BNG has already brought it up once and for all to the other groups, and the Socialist Group, in a way named through budgets and in the debate of the budgeters, has also raised a similar question. By taking advantage of this bill, and then we will have another proposal from our group, too, let us give a little more complete debate on primary care, in which we can debate, in differentiated terms, something about management and something about concrete measures and planning in primary care. We — as we say — are in favour of this process because we share the end, which is to provide more resources for primary care. Why this support? In general terms, I think it is important to recompile the situation in which we are: today primary care in Galicia is one hundred eighty-eight — almost one hundred eighty-nine — EUR less than ten years ago. Normally, governments try to increase budgets; the value of money increases — as it says in a simple way — and budgets tend to grow, because prices get higher. Notably in health care here we tend to go the contrary every time we spend a year. If you compare it to ten years ago, you see that there's almost one hundred eighty-nine million euros less. With a hundred and eighty-nine million euros less in an budget, it's hard to do more. To those who are not, at times, so deep — who call us everything from some benches and from the Government — we find it hard to assume that with a hundred and eighty-nine million euros we do less. Some of the fewer are in the budgets, which is the document that defines the policy of a government: 1,249 professional squares less in primary care; one hundred eighty-nine million and 1,249 professionals less. The truth is, after this data that is in the budgets — no one invents it; it is there and approves it — it is difficult to maintain — as it is commonly maintained — that primary care is going — as it was said recently — better than ever — at the best moment in its history. And even more so when, after rejecting with certain pride and quite narcissism many of the measures that have been proposed by the political groups, by the unions, by the professional groups and by the users, sometimes there are some rather notorious and grandiologic measures and star announcements. By naming him: recently in the last few days, coincidentally, with an election campaign—causualities, sometimes happens—the president of the board has announced a hundred million euros for primary care; a star announcement, a fantastic new one that seems good to us, insufficient but good. Welcome to all contributions. But behind it, and not to applaud excessively, it would be possible to make the reflection that we've just done: when one goes down 200 and sums up 100, still loses 100, which means that we're celebrating 100 million euros in ten years. Of course, it's a remarkable management. To lose 100 million euros in ten years is good; it's better to lose 100 than to lose 200, but we keep losing. We're still having low primary care, because that's the intention of this government. In the end, governments can speak what they want, but they decide on budgets. Two hundred million euros less, and now there's a hundred increase. But, in addition, this of going up and celebrating when... this reminds me of Pablo Casado, who was raising the minimum wage less than he was. It was a little something like that. [[Applause]] Now we're going up primary care unless we were and we're celebrating; it's okay. But let me make a few small assessments about this, because we are debating the budgetary departure for primary care to the thread of this law. How many debates on economic and human resources have been held in this chamber or in the Health Commission in recent times? I promise you I tried to find it, but it's impossible. The fact is that I believe that in all the debates we have in this Chamber we are talking about the necessary allocation of resources. And the People's Party has always been against. Always, and—I repeat—with quite pride and some narcissism. Always against it. By setting an example: in the last plenary -- we must not go too far -- we discussed the need for more physiotherapists in the health system and proposed, from the Socialist Group, an interpellation in which we discussed this need. The counselor recognized that they would need more -- well, he didn't recognize it directly, because he's never going to give us the reason -- and he announced more physiotherapists. On the day we betrayed an interpellation — not motu proprio — it announced that there would be more physiotherapists. Oh, great! There may be a deal. The Socialists brought a proposal for a numerical agreement with how many could be, according to our proposal, to negotiate, to speak and to be able to wake up. It goes against it; we agree that they need it, but we vote against how many. And automatically, less than fifteen days later, they announce how many. The question is, why do you vote against something you already intend to do? Probably because of that usual sectarianism of not voting anything that comes from the opposition, to see if it's going to look like we're weak. Look: we don't want medals; the important thing is they're going to have more physiotherapists. See if we're able to have more next year. This demonstrates that pride: we're going against things even if a week later if they're going to do it, it's not going to look like these opposition guys know something, they think something or even -- and even if it's sometimes unwanted -- they're right. Not to mention, probably; we already know that truth is always on the same side here. But we didn't want to, sometimes, make it right. In the budgetary debate on this increase in primary care, we proposed from our group partial amendments and, particularly in cross-border, several increases. You voted absolutely against, even saying that we didn't know anything, that we had no idea, that where they were going to get that money, that as it could be, that you're crazy about raising the budget... please! We were talking about sixty million euros, sixty!; we had no idea of anything — sixty —. Mr. President arrived and announced a hundred; that's right, after he voted against in Madrid. In other words, they were asked for approval in Madrid with the vote against the People's Party and now they add a hundred after saying that increasing sixty was a crazy intellectual papalata — as we were qualified —. After that, they're up 100, but it's fine. We asked ourselves: wasn't it perceptible two years ago that there was a personal need for health care? Because we've been proposing it for at least two years. Wasn't it perceptible two years ago? Were they waiting for now? They felt obliged! They don't do it because they want it, because they feel obliged. Construction of health centres: there will be 17 percent for staff, but there will be a lot for the construction of health centers. Every time you say they want to improve health, the builders rub their hands; okay, fifty million for works. The president recently announced the recruitment of new health centers, shortly after he announced this — which seems to be more — now there are health centers; before it was fantastic management and now there are health centers, that is wonderful. Aren't they needed before? Now the needs have emerged; suddenly they realized that there was a need for health centres. All the claims previously claimed were not valid: Caldas, O Grove, Marignamansa and O Vinteún in Ourense, Vilagarcia, Bouzas en Vigo... they were not necessary. Are they going to be in need now? I'm telling you because I don't know if there's any fellows coming from champions, but in all those places where there's a need for health centers, you, at most, subsampers. Like a lot! [[Applause]] And some, bronze medal, that's good. Soon we'll also celebrate the Olympic diplomas, which are fine. Let's see if it's going to be necessary to keep in mind that sometimes—sometimes, only sometimes—there are proposals that are okay. You discriminate everything that we say, it's useless, we don't know anything; we can already make a proposal that you're considering is good, that in such a way you don't recognize it, they tell us that you don't. Everything that the opposition says and everything that the Socialist Group says is often useless: you don't know! It doesn't matter if they copy our model. That's what Margaret Thatcher said — it's complicated — "If I walk through the waters of Thames, my adversaries will say I can't swim." Well, you're the same: you don't care what we do, you're going to say we don't know anything; it's okay. Now they're doing it. And finally, about the seventeen percent that will increase in staff: we defend, among other things, support measures like the one brought by BNG today, or as we usually propose, to increase staff, but much more than this. By the way, tell me one thing: now they assume that there will be a 17 percent increase in staff, how many times did they say, including president and counsellor, that there are no doctors to hire, and that there are no nurses to hire? Ten per square on May 12th in oppositions. There are no nurses to hire, no doctors to hire, and now they increase the budget to hire professionals. [[Applause]] What's wrong? Were they born now in the spring? Did they show up? Did they bloom?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u44	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u45	I'm done. If there's now more game to hire, they're convinced they're hiring, they're demanding MIR after they desecrate and lose one hundred and fifty squares and have more budgets than they were.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u46	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u47	If they were, and they were the necessary health centers, and they were the necessities, why not before?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u49	We are going to support this initiative, which we believe goes to the heart of the matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u50	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u51	See if the People's Party has understood the message and can support...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. Time's up. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u53	Thank you, President. Well, as we've discussed on multiple occasions, essentially around the budgetary debate, we have a problem that is related not only to the initial cuts, but to the continuing cuts in the different fields of investment in social rights. We also consider in our group that health was practically the most ill-treated, together with social policies, all the councils and all those elements that defend these social rights through public services in an early stage, the aberration of that so-called economic crisis — which we have already discussed on multiple occasions — with all the cuts that we have all known, both with regard to the parts of chapter I, of Personal, as well as in those oriented to the situation of health centres throughout the Galician Health Service, but which basically attacked the situation of primary care. The data on the material resources of the Galego Health Service published by the Instituto Galego de Statística is only to be seen. The number of health centres, consultants and all kinds of outpatient elements and primary care structures have decreased. [[Mrs. Solla Fernández shows you a chart to the members of the House.]] It's the data from the Galego Institute of Statistics, they're published. In fact, in the last data series of 2017, if you look at the difference in a decade, it's a loss of around eighty -- something less -- centers all over Galicia. This is also a measure of the situation we have in relation to the lack of equity in access to public services in rural areas and in many municipalities which are now losing population, but also in relation to the lack of services in these municipalities and of course — as has been mentioned here — which has to do with how these personnel cuts affected. These cuts were initially given, but in the second phase of Mr Núñez's last government, he made that spending, which did not have any kind of justification — we have discussed it — in relation to the economic situation and the forecast of GDP increase in our country, has consolidated the cuts, mainly in health matters, and that in the face of a situation of an absolutely impoverished population in Galicia, in which more than 60 thousand people are at risk of poverty and exclusion, the cuts have only perpetuated that lack of equity and therefore those difficulties of many men and women in our country. In view of this situation, when we had the budgetary debate — and we have been proposing similar measures for many years now — we have proposed some measures; this debate has already taken place. Today it brings the Nationalist Block a bill that practically transfers its amendment to the whole of a bill, in this case. We have had this debate a few months ago, when we discuss the budgets this year, in which our group proposes several elements not only for public health, but for the rest of the social needs of increasing resources, such as: the increase in resources from the state, that is, we have a problem with the autonomous funding that we need to address not only in the Committee on Economic Affairs, but also that it is an element that affects cross-borderly all those services that are transferred, such as public health; the need to increase the collection through different fiscal measures — we agreed in some — a reduction of these tax benefits by acting on incomes and higher assets, and a fight against tax fraud, which was also contained in our proposal. In particular, several of the tax proposals that we have already discussed at that time coincided with some that are now being moved by the Galician Nationalist Block, although we have divergences in terms of the calculation of what these revenues are going to be. This debate has already been discussed at the moment and, in addition, are elements that we have been defending for many years; I, therefore, have been involved in this parliament, since we entered it as an Alternative Left-Galga. Elements such as the new taxes related to corred water, large surfaces or drinks with high sugar content, which we have moved here since the first exercise, in 2013, and of which, therefore, we have also calculated specific figures as regards the forecast of collection. These elements make us agree in general on the proposal — although we have some divergence — and we are going to support its processing, although we certainly believe that there are some elements that produce some kind of difficulty. You know that this proposal, which talks about the increase in expenditure, has some problem, because there are some incomes that they wouldn't have or would not be effective until within two years. There are several direct taxes, such as the increase in what it has to do with the IRPF plot, which would not enter at the moment and which, therefore, would not have an immediate application, which is absolutely necessary in the face of the public health situation. However, we will support the proposal. But it is also true that it is only four months to be in this chamber that we are debating an budget for, of course, the entire autonomous community, all the public services and all the needs of this country. We need to give a serious debate and an important debate on the needs that the Public Service of the Galician Health Service has, in this case, and, depending on these needs, which we are — indeed, as the Socialist Party's voice was constantly being moved — discussing both in the Committee on Health and in this plenary, we need to know how much income we need in order to be able to finance them. In that sense, it is true that the Government of the People's Party has not done its homework, not only because of the obvious problems we have — most obviously — and because of all the conflicts within public health, but because there are many economic elements that could be carried out by their own accounts. It is not to be remembered here — it is not necessary — all the warnings made by the Board of Auditors annually on credit changes, which provide a fairly poor picture of how the Health Council budget is prepared. At this point, however, we have a continence fund that remains without being fully invested; that is, we could, against this continence fund, use some of those shares to finance part of the needs and also — by the way — of the agreements to which the Health Council allegedly committed itself, and also devote to health the highest incomes on the estimate. We have already denounced it here and it has moved both in the Committee on Economic Affairs and in this plenary debate that the calculation by the Council of Economics of what would be wrong. We are having an increase in the first quarter of this year over 7.5 percent of the expected income and yet this is not investing in something as necessary as public health. Obviously, the need is — and it would be possible — to modify the budgetary shares — not if you are doing so — of elements we already know, at this time of year, that will not be spent or that will not be invested. Instead, the People's Party decides not to address the public health problem and therefore to leave the referee—we do not know what—needs we are going to have to debate again within four months in this plenary session. We would like there to be this possibility of talking — especially now that we are going to conform to the Government — about the needs of self-financing and also about the problems that autonomous communities have in relation to this element, which is quite basic and essential to finance important elements such as public health. In that sense, we, although — I say — have doubts about the possibility of applying certain elements contained in this rule immediately because, indeed, they are not planned in advance at the time of the account, we believe it is important to give this debate. In addition, we are going to be giving this debate within a few months in this chamber, and it is very important that we actually calculate all those cuts and depreciations of squares in recent years to, clearly — as the healthcare professionals are asking for — go predicting the need to increase public health back to the previous situation of ten years and even to improve that situation in the services that are most deprived of staff, which are also very related to the needs — I believe that it was the BNG voicer that he also referred to — related to the ageing of the population; therefore, the need to increase staff in some services, mainly in primary care, but also in others. Therefore, a serious debate would be needed on the financing needs of the health system and, therefore, on the increase in incomes as well as on which items are allocated, which is an important element. We have already made — and I am finished — a criticism at this time of the publicity made by the Galician Union in connection with these changes or arrangements in health centres. We've already moved that they were absolutely insignificant games that didn't supplant the cuts of years. I say, the Galego Institute of Statistics: around eighty health centres less than a decade; but, in addition, the very important deterioration of many others and — fundamentally, the central element — the problems of staff that has not only primary care, but the overallity of the Galego Health Service and also the rest of the Public Administration in basic issues such as social policies. [[Mrs. Solla Fernández shows you a chart to the members of the House.]] We therefore need to give this debate. We would also like the People's Party to admit that these cuts, today, the only thing they have produced, were more problems and a slowdown in the health administration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u54	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u55	The evidence shows it in the debates about the shortage of public job offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u56	Thank you very much. Mr Núñez Centeno has the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u57	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Mrs Solla, it seemed to me to understand, at best, that there was a loss, according to the Institute of Statistics, of eighty health centres in Galicia. I don't know, that in three hundred and thirteen municipalities makes it quite hard for me to understand; I don't know if they'll be private, if they'll be told... I don't know what year it is, but I'd like to know. Well, today we are debating, ladies and gentlemen, two non-legislative proposals on the improvement of primary care: this one of the Galician Nationalist Block, in relation to an increase in budget, an amendment to the budget, and then one of the Socialist Group, which is asking for legal amendments, is going to be debated. As always, opposition groups start by giving primary care expenditure figures, but they cheat on them, they never use the disaggregated data. Because they look: in 2009 Sergas pharmacy spending was 1,321 million and in 2016 it was 1,102 million; there are over two hundred million euros less pharmaceutical spending per year in those years that are said to have been cut so much. Basically, that decrease comes from primary care, from the prescription of primary care pharmacies. Here was approved a prioritized catalogue of medicines, which was used by the Socialist Government in front of the Constitutional Court, and also measures to increase the consumption of generics — prescription of generics — which have made spending very much lower in primary care pharmacies. In fact, the salary of officials has been reduced: that reduction in the year 2010 between five and seven percent has contributed to lowering chapter I. Other measures have subsequently been taken, such as the freezing of extra payments or the decline of days, which have also caused the budget to be lowered in chapter I. Those measures taken are recovered today. He affirms the Galician Nationalist Block in his explanatory statement that between 2017 and 2019 the emergency services in Galicia have collapsed. It's funny, when we talk about emergency saturation here, there's a broad hemerothec of the years 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009 of emergency "colapses", but these seem to be forgotten, they only remember 2017 and 2019. Now they're asking for a budget change of two hundred thirty-three million euros to fix the problems of primary care in Galicia. They intend to increase professionals to end the massification of quotas — that seems reasonable — so that each optional has a maximum of 200, but they don't explain where doctors are going to get out of for that increase of professionals or not for coverage of 100 percent of the casualties, which they also promise in their bill. I don't know if you think that's just a problem with money or professional deficits; I don't think so. They would also apply this increase to suppress the limitations of requests for diagnostic tests by primary students. They know perfectly well that the Council has taken measures in this direction and has opened negotiations with the collectives and unions it will study within the Advisory Technical Council — recently constituted — these and other demands of the professionals. This, as it always does on the left, aims to do so by raising taxes: the autonomic frame of the IRPF, the property tax, the inheritance tax, and the succession and prayers, whose suppression was very well valued by Welsh and Greek. There are also others in the package that serve everything: commercial surfaces — they would pay the rich, of course — sugar drinks — they will also pay the rich evidently — empty dwellings or high-voltage networks, which will also pay. The problem is that it's dropped here by elevation; that is, the figures they're proposing don't believe them. [[Applause]] In the budget debate, our spokesman pointed out the contradiction between the various opposition groups in the field of collection by the modification or increase of the taxes they propose. With the sugary beverage tax the Block collects 11 million, you imagine how many glue bottles you're going to have to drink each Welshman to get to that, from babies to diabetics, passing through all the others; however, In Marea estimated that this tax could provide half a million euros. In empty dwellings, the Block speaks of thirty-six million, at Marea it spoke of between one and a half million and two million. On large surfaces the Block speaks of thirty million; In Marea, of four and the Socialist Party, of six. Those must be the disagreements of Mr. Torrado with this initiative. They don't look very serious, do they? We're used to hearing these things constantly in this Chamber. With all this money, the problems of primary care would be solved, problems that are mainly caused by the deficit of family and pediatricians — today comes a letter in a newspaper related to this. You constantly claim in this parliament squares in these two specialties and encourage citizens' demands in the same sense as well, but you never explain where the doctors would get to cover these new squares or that hundred percent of replacements or casualties. In Galicia there are more health workers than in 2008 and 2009 -- there are about seven percent more family doctors, there are about six percent more nursing, and there are also more pediatricians. There is more health expenditure in Galicia in 2019 than in 2011: three hundred forty-eight million euros more in an budget that is less than one hundred ten million euros in that year, a percentage of 40.5 percent in 2019 compared to 33.02 percent in 2008 and 2009. As much as they say, gentlemen, the data is there. It was approved with a high degree of consensus a primary care plan, supported by many professional collectives, patient associations, scientific societies and also by trade unions, with two hundred shares, with forty per cent of short-term measures to be applied within a maximum of six months, with an economic allocation of one hundred two million real euros from the surplus of the autonomous community, with investments in staff — three hundred thirty-one squares — in equipment and furniture and in the construction of new health centres; a serious, coherent and appropriate plan for the needs of primary care in Galicia. But look: we can talk about primary care and autonomous communities. The report of the Federation of Public Health Associations of April 2019, which is entitled Impacts of the crisis on primary care, has just been published. Evolution in autonomous communities. Surprisingly, on the second page of that report it says, "Prime care is experiencing a crisis that comes from far away, but that has intensified this past year. One of their origins is in the aging of the professionals who started it forty years ago and the majority arrival of other young people, who did not choose primary care as a matter of priority, but could not opt for another specialty, and who live their daily practice with a mixture of frustration and attempt to make it a better answer to their perspectives." I don't share this. That's what the Federation of Public Health Associations says, but I think we need to think about it. Going to the figures in the report, see: in 2016, twelve of the seventeen autonomous communities continued to maintain a percentage of primary care spending less than in 2010; it does not seem to be an exclusive problem of Galicia or the Government of Greece. Galicia increased health expenditure per person in primary care between 2010 and 2016 compared to eight communities that did not. It says the report that, analyzing the influence of political color on the percentage of expenditure devoted to primary care as well as on per capita spending, there does not seem to be a determining influence. And neither of nationalism, which turns out that the Basques spend more than half and the Catalans spend less than half; it seems that if they fall a little bit, the mantra of primary care and the right doesn't seem very serious. Galicia is the third community where the population has declined most between 2010 and 2017, which is a data that they value later on for the ratios. Galicia has the sixth lowest TIS quota per family doctor in 2017: 1,275. In addition, it has the second lowest rate of professionals who exceed the one thousand five hundred TIS, the second lowest in Spain: 19.32 compared to an average in Spain of 41.49. Interestingly, Mrs. Prado said that in Vigo there were many family doctors who had more than two thousand or two thousand five hundred TSIs. So look: the Federation's percentage is 0.16 percent, multiplied by about two thousand five hundred family doctors, is four, four in all of Galicia. That's the crowd of Vigo doctors who have over two thousand or even two thousand five hundred. The figures given are always that way. In 2010 Galicia had 26.16 percent, and the average of Spain was 45.11; I'm referring to the rate of professionals that exceeded the one thousand five hundred. In pediatrics and primary the situation is similar: Galicia is below the average ratio: it is one thousand eighteen and in Galicia, of nine hundred forty-one. We have the highest percentage of children cared for by pediatricians and not by family doctors; we are below, on average, the nursing ratio, and also very below that of administrative assistants -- it's over, president. If you reflect this report on the low assessment that we Germans and Greeks make of medical professionals in primary care. It's amazing; I think it has to do with the requirement that we have the Galicians and the Greeks always with all things. On waiting lists too, we're in very good numbers. In short, ladies and gentlemen, this is the real situation of public health in Galicia, evaluated by an association that has no suspicion of being close to the People's Party. I think we must stop readings, work and help to improve Galician primary care and demand with us the central government to increase accreditation for specialized training, approval...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u58	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u59	...of foreign professionals — named president — and anyone else who helps to alleviate the shortage of professionals. They positively value the work done by professionals in developing the Primary Care Plan...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u61	...and they stop using health and, in particular, primary as an arier against the Government of the People's Party. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u62	Replica round of the author group of the non-law proposal. You have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u63	Firstly, I would like to thank the position expressed by En Marea and the Socialist Party for supporting this initiative. Obviously, it is the BNG initiative and therefore responds to our political and ideological proposal, which obviously does not have to coincide with other political organizations. But I understand that, in any case, we agree with the substance of the matter, that if there was really political will and there was a determination that there was a need for resources to care for health, if these resources could be placed on the table. I don't know if Mr. Núñez Centeno is very worried about where we're going to take that money we say. Because as much as the People's Party is going to save, since it's not going to go around Carballo, it's the same way you can invest them here. Maybe you can invest them here, I say! [[Applause]] Because that's sectarian politics: it's necessary to circumvaluation, the neighbors demand it, and the council demand it, but it's only done if it governs the People's Party. With which, since they act in that sectarian way, they can invest in public health. Look, where are the doctors going to get the BNG? First, if there are no doctors, it's because the People's Party wanted no doctors, because they were warned what the situation was, that they were going to retire, that they were insufficient and that they had to take action, and they didn't want to, because they wanted to be in this situation. But there are, however, short-term and other measures in the medium and long-term to reverse that situation: first, to make real strength to eliminate the rate of replacement; and second, a decent labour policy. They continue to demand a decent labour policy that does not keep them from being optional and optional at this time that they continue to march from Galicia because the labour situation that the People's Party has been subjected to is insufferable. They don't want to work here because it's not possible. If they turn that indecent situation at work, there would be many professionals who are working outside that would come back. [[Applause]] It said Castelao the Sardinians would come back if politicians wanted to; for doctors would also return if there were decent labour policies that would allow them not to be in the situation where they had to develop their activity. The optional ones keep telling me that in Norway they have half an hour to care for each patient and in the United Kingdom they have fifteen minutes, and they don't come back because it's unbearable here. So there are measures that can be put in place for doctors. But, in any case, I told you that in primary care it's not just a problem of lack of doctors, it's also a problem of the rest of the categories: midwives, nursing, physiotherapists, social workers... that would greatly help the demand in the consultation be different if they were covered by many of their needs. And there's no staff problem, the unemployment and recruitment lists are full of staff; it's a political decision from you, the People's Party, who don't want to hire, who don't want to take public offers from decent jobs. Because they don't tell me again that if the three hundred squares that have just been convened, first, the one in 2019, that they've always called at the end of the year, they've put it forward, and those are 2018, that they didn't call or solve. I mean, you keep playing with numbers instead of putting real measures on the table. Because the problems of the professionals are not solved — as the counselor said a few days ago — by redistributing the work, changing the work of the site, taking it out to some professionals and collapsing others, it's not the solution!; nor with coordination plans to see how we do it. No; they are resolved with resources: professional resources and resources in health centres. And that's what you don't want to put on the table. Because look: the deficit between 2009 and 2019 — ten years later — is one hundred and eighty million euros. You, in theory -- which we'll see later -- put a hundred million euros at three years, Mr. Núñez Centeno, at three years!, which touches exactly thirty—thirty-little—millions per year. If there's a deficit of one hundred eighty-eight and they dedicate thirty-three, there's still at least a deficit of one hundred fifty million, at least! A hundred and fifty million over ten years ago, if we apply the IPC update, we still owe money. It's just that you don't apply the slightest seriousness to things. The BNG with this initiative shows that if there's political will, if you can put money on the table; not to solve the problem of primary care immediately, but in a good part. Because there are professionals in virtually all categories to be able to hire and to remove decent job offers that really solve the problem; which is not that political will.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u64	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u65	The People's Party continues with that distraction maneuver, apparently it does when it's not doing anything at all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u66	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u67	You've had a part of the professionals and the population in studies and in doing, we'll look at and analyze. No, you'd have to apply it right away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u68	Thank you very much. Let us turn to the next debate. Debate taken into account by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, for the improvement of primary care in the public health system of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u69	Mr Torrido Quintela presented the bill by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u70	Thank you again, President. As was natural, we continue this debate on primary care. Even though it's two bills, it makes every sense that we can continue the debate and try to be more productive. There are some issues that have been said to be linked, of course, to the proposal we make. I'm going to try to present our bill, which goes not as far as budgetary measures, as was the proposal of the Galician Nationalist Block, but some concrete measures, but probably based on the same analysis as I did before, as could not be otherwise. There is, in general terms, a rejection of the policies that led to the Galician Union in general and the Health Council in recent years, particularly in recent years. This gives rise to many of the issues that we are discussing today in this bill and to many that have already been debated in one way or another in this parliament. When we say there's a global rejection, we don't say it — I'm going to allow Mr. Núñez Centeno — with traps. Tramp is to quote the data from 2019 and 2011 to override the comparison of ten years ago, because those from 2011 were already budgets of this government. So, if you're saying that we are now much better, it's that in 2011 we were worse, and it was already your government; it was the Government of all, but it was the government that you supported. So to compare himself and say how we improved that bad government in 2011, he forgot to assume it was his. So let's not do those traps and try to reject some data by comparing them with others. The reality of primary care data is that: one hundred eighty-nine million euros less and 1,249 professionals less. Tramp is to give data from the Council that no one knows, that no one has and they always deny. Because you'll tell me where we're going to get a thousand five hundred professionals less if the budgets say there's almost the same number but down. If there's a thousand two hundred and fifty and you say we have a thousand more five hundred, the question is, what do they live from, where do they pay? Because in the budgets they're not. So if you've invented the ability to pay professionals in a way that's not in budgets, tell them, which is very good, it's a great efficiency in management. But to lie is to say that we have more professional when budgets don't say it; or they lie saying or lying in budgets. You choose where you lie, but you lie on one of two occasions. [[Applause]] On the measures we have taken, it's important to make that history, as we once did. In these years there have been complaints, demands, proposals, demonstrations, criticisms, demands in general to monitor the population pyramid of health professionals, increase the number of human resources and work on the squares of difficult coverage. There are demands on the problem of the privatization of the health system; professionals demand time in primary care, especially; professionals demand non-training, which they have, but can develop them. I remember the Royal Prescription Order of Nurses, with which you have closed the nurses' work, and the catalog of diagnostic evidence that we propose in this bill, which you denied until a few moments ago. You've undervalued primary care with the removal of administrations. All of this, among many other things, are elements that were constantly in the debate, and you have no idea at all, they have said that no one knew anything, none of the chiefs of service of Vigo resigned — a manager of Vigo's EOXI who is delaying to be away — little less than telling them that they had no idea and that they were burnt-outs resigning for political interests. That's his policy. [[Applause]] You not only denied it, but they argued and practically despised everyone who told them I was in disagreement. From there, you could take some measures; now, increased resources: no, improved working conditions: no. They're starting to fall into court sentences that say, among other things... I remember one, recently, of professionals who demand Sergas for saturation of their work, which we've been listening to here not days or months, let's go! Sergas has to pay compensation to the professionals they're demanding. You're forcing healthcare professionals to go to the judges and claim what's obvious. You're preferring to pay compensation to professionals rather than to make more professionals. Economically they are absolutely inefficient, absolutely! We're in a situation where you've been denying the biggest, probably installed in the belief that they were so good that no one could argue with you. Let's see if this last month serves, among other things, so that we can all assume that the other one is probably right too, probably also; that would be, at least, a great advance. You denied the ability to have more professionals from the MIR titration; one hundred and fifty MIR squares that they did not request and that they could in ten years. You refused to make positive discrimination, as we said, on difficult-covered squares. You have prevented new specialties from entering; I remind you that they have done nothing more — in ten — calls for physiotherapists, now they're doing another, and for that, in one of these years they've done eleven for all of Galicia. We have one of the worst ratios and you have refused to increase the volume of human resources. Mr. Núñez Centeno, ask me and I tell you: ask me where we're going to get the doctors when we propose to have more; that's a good question. Of course, it's not an easy answer, because if it were an easy answer, everyone would have it. The question: Where are we going to get the doctors from? We are — not just doctors — the third worst autonomous community in the ratio of doctors and doctors per capita throughout Spain; data from the Official Board of Medical Colleges. And since you mentioned to me today the press with a letter that there was, if the press continues, you will see that today we also have news from nursing professionals, who say that we have the third worst ratio throughout Spain. If we're the third worst of doctors and doctors and nursing professionals, I'll tell you where the Greek professionals are: outside of Galicia. And you know why? [[Applause]] Because hiring and working quality in Sergas is of genuine exploitation. We have some sort of eventuality ratios that clearly exceed twenty percent, and in many EOXI twenty-five. What we have is about five percent chance... but if we have to cover more than two months of casualties or replacements, at least for vacations, how are we going to have about five percent of potential professionals? There's no health system in the world that has about five percent of potential professionals; there's no, it's impossible. There's no need to promise something that's impossible even for the best systems. You, by the way, quote the Basque system: we share, it's a good system, with your mistakes, that I think there are some things that don't do it right. And you'll tell me, it's not a problem on the right. No, if it's not a problem on the right. I don't share the model on the right on public health, but who had given us in Galicia the right of the PNV and not the one on the PP, I tell you!; of course, this PP is safe. So, let's be able to understand that what they once criticized is now done. They are therefore able to say one thing yesterday and today another. They're able to say that what yesterday looked like a tremor of intellectual papalata, today you applaud him as if it were a great measure. They're able to say one thing and the opposite. So they're hardly credible, that's why they're not credible. What do we propose in this bill, therefore? Things that are possible. They were possible when we defended them before, and now that you're saying that you can try to study them, let's say, it's time to take them to realization. Because promising things is good, but it's much better to fulfill them, much better. Cannot promise Carballo infrastructures depending on who you win, you can't. You can't promise health infrastructure depending on who I earn, who I lived it too. You can't promise increases or improvements in hospitals depending on who you win, you can't; it won't be. We propose that, since they are now open to understanding something, let's take them to the law, because it's the best way to guarantee them. Maximum consultations: we defend — as professionals defend — that time must be given for the quality of work. We regulate those ratios or that limit of TIS per professional. By the way, you discussed here with the BNG spokesperson about the number of professionals who had more than two thousand or two thousand quintuples; you offered data that contradicts what Mrs. Prado says. Mrs. Prado gave one data and you said others; I'd like to know where they come from. If you're able to provide us with where they come from, I'll tell you you're right, but we're always asking the Councilmanship for data and they don't give us them; but it's okay. We propose, on maximum consultations, times to prevent us from having to be discussing numbers and ratios; we have done the times legally. What does that mean? Let's have a regulation that says how much is the maximum professionals can have for each of the people they have, to prevent us from having sixty-seventy people taken care of in the same morning. What do you mean we're regulatory? I mean, if there are professionals who systematically have more patients a day, we're breaking the law and, therefore, we're forced to improve it. Because it's no use wanting to make something better if it doesn't get better when it's done. I want to run the 100 yards smooth in ten seconds; now, I'm not going down 100 kilos and I'm never going to train, but I want to run them. No, you don't; you say you want, but you don't. So we can't be saying that we're going to have few patients per professional, but when it's not done, it's not doing anything; we propose to take it to the law. Secondly, we propose to standardize the catalog of diagnostic tests and define it by professionals, because it's a technical decision that probably has a lot of complexity. You have to see what are the instruments we have and the means we have and define what capacity is, but once it's defined, it's normative, because it's the best way to ensure that governance works and that it works for those who pass through. It works and we give guarantees to professionals that they will have stability, which is important. Thirdly, we regulate the presence of primary care agencies. You announced the bomb and plate that we were going to have now a new directive figure on primary care, but we didn't just know if he was a director, manager or coordinator, if he was of all primary care, or if only the optional professionals, if he's going to include nursing, if they were going to be two, if they were going to be three, or if they were going to be two with a coordinator on top...; we haven't just clarified anything. A primary care agency inserted into the attention of EOXI: that's what we put forward; with leadership capacity, with management capacity and with budget management capacity, that's what we proposed. Let's plant, in addition, an improvement in staff, and here we distribute to three issues that we believe are important. First, of course, we need, at last, a contract, some stability for those professionals who are covering casualties and substitutions. For those professionals who are doing it quite normally, we need a continuity contract. What's going on? That you're taking him down. We propose that they may not have a guarantee from one to three years, that they eventually become one, but that it should be two to three years, because if they eventually become two, two is still more stability. Because we do what we're discussing: we're discussing what stability is to give a one-year contract, when Sergas is losing judicial judgments because he has hired professionals concaterating contracts for years in, of course, posts that are structural, and deals with any contracts; Sergas is judicially losing those demands. What we defend is: of course there are many professionals who are eventually hired in the system and who do structural work. What do we defend? That we can't value that the eventual turns into something superstable with a year. It's not decent. So let's give a guarantee, at least two years; at least two years. If we could wait for almost most of them to have three, better; but at least two years. Besides that, in addition to these two years, extend it to the hospital. Why is it only in primary care when we know — and we have had that debate many times — that there are specialties in hospitals that have a professional deficit? What are they waiting for? To have a demonstration, to be dismissed by professionals? Will you react only when professionals resign? Do we have that problem in the hospital? We establish continuity contracts at the hospital level. We establish continuity contracts for other specialties, not only for doctors and doctors, which would be reasonable because, if we have a deficit and for an area or for a category, we define a type of contract, why not others if we also have a deficit? Or are doctors and doctors more than nurses? They are equally relevant, in their respective responsibilities, to the system and, therefore, to us. And we've come up with an improvement for the CAP staff frameworks, so that we don't have what's already happened, so that we have complete equipment, and for regulatory with a legal range, what's the volume of staff that every CAP has to have, so that nothing happens if it's not done — as it has been done, as it continues to go wrong and what's happened -- and for that we want to take it to the norm. We defend all this and, in addition, we defend — yes! — a plan of recruitment and stability: five thousand new squares — new! — for the whole system, which would give the ability to defend that all this is possible. Do we have a budget to do this? We have; and now even you recognize that we have it. Do we have doctors, doctors, nurses and nurses and other professionals? We have, because they're there, because they're doing the oppositions, because they're out of Galicia hoping there's a system that gives them a chance — some! — They're not demanding them to sign a wonderful, fantastic life contract -- of course they would like it -- but they're demanding at least some stability, a ability to predict what they're going to do in their life, not when they're thirty, but yes when they're thirty-five, thirty-eight or forty-year-old. It can't be that we're condemning professionals.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u71	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u72	We're giving them up twice a year -- and they're not invented numbers. It's not possible that we're condemning them to that instability. That's what we propose, and we believe that from there we can reach an agreement. We appreciate the advance support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. By the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, you have the floor to Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u74	We discussed in the law that brought here the debate of the Nationalist Block Galicia the situation of the budget cuts applied by the People's Party to public health in our country. But those budget cuts that were applying the People's Party, of course, didn't do them alone, did they? They were parallelly accompanied by legislative amendments, in a combined way, by the combined action of legislative amendments, budget cuts and speech that it was essential in a crisis context to have to cut public health. This combined action to go secondary to primary care, with a loss of decision-making and leadership capacity, also needed to go to the People's Hospitalcentrism Party model, to concentrate health resources, is agreed upon by a policy of going to cure and not predict disease. We found ourselves with a drowning, collapsed, and non-resolute primary care, with a fragmentation of the system, with a huge overload of functions and lack of time, with an increase, on some issues, of electronic devices that, theoretically, had to go in the direction of improving such health care, clinical history and home care, but soon they did not provide professionals or time for these resources to actually perform some kind of function that was not to collapse, even more, these professionals. So, we have an organisational galimatías. There's an increase in the demand for care because of the reasons we've already analyzed for increasing the chronicity of population age. However, has he done anything to get the primary care of resources? Well, no. The plan of improvement that was planned and then anecdotal advances — as I said — were made in access to diagnostic technologies, without the provision of health centres, with damaged built infrastructure, without the precise maintenance and construction of the necessary ones. The BNG will support this bill presented here by the Socialist Party today, if we do have differences in issues that contain, especially on the question that refers to the organizational structure, which states that the organization will be in integrated management structures, and then that there must be a general agency, horizontal organs, hospital management bodies and primary care agencies. But it does not establish that primary care needs to regain its own resolutive capacity and budgetary capacity. Of course, if we accept the procedure — and we are going to vote in favour of the procedure — the BNG, of course, would go to another question. Because this legislative reform that the People's Party made, beginning with the amendment of the Health Act of 2008, was directed to consolidate this model change, to consolidate precisely the EOXI and not to recover that capacity from primary care. If between the years 2010 and 2013 the EOXI were created and the management of the resources in these seven structures was unified, the reform, then, of the Health Act changed and affected that model change based on concentration, in a health model centered on hospitals, and not in that reversal in the recovery of primary care. That's why it's a question that, of course, BNG does not look less to us: that the loss of primary care power has been associated with restrictions on access to diagnostic tests, the increase in bureaucracy and the imposition of restrictions when it comes to being able to derive. So it seems good to us that we try to regulate what these possible leads are. Just as, of course, the ratios are issues that we have seen insistently demanding: establishing a population ratio. Because, of course, primary care requires the provision of all necessary squares so that professionals can provide quality primary care, without professionals, it's not possible to provide quality care, and an analysis of human resources needs. We have demanded it on an active and passive basis: to examine what is that need for human resources and to clarify what the real situation is. And we find ourselves in the continued vote of the People's Party against mechanisms for knowing exactly what the situation is on all squares; we do not want clarity on what the squares are about and what the situation is about. That allows the People's Party to come here saying that there are more professionals than in 2009, when it's not based on any objective matter that we can know. The data, of course, that we have in the BNG, drawn from the data contained in the budgets, is that primary care has about a thousand 400 people less than ten years ago; but the People's Party does not want to establish control mechanisms to actually know what the staff situation is. Of course, primary care has to stop being subordinate to hospital decisions and has to have the capacity to develop these projects with resolution capacity, budgetary capacity and leadership of primary care itself, without being subject to decisions, or secondary to hospital care. Of course, you must have medical management, nursing management and management management and services. It must have those three directions, but also with the ability to decide, and the realization of the ratios and the TIS of all professionals—of all professionals!—. He referred to the defense of the proposed law of the BNG as to what is the situation, for example, of nursing: that there are no catalogues and that there is no such willingness to really know what their functions are and how the work should be distributed; but also, with regard to nursing, midwives, physiotherapists, general service personnel, janitors... who are not resized, nor if you know what their service wallets are. And all these measures are necessary to achieve primary care where professionals can work in necessary conditions and where, fundamentally, population is met with decent quality standards. So — I insist — we will vote in favour, but, if the procedure is allowed, we will make changes in fundamental aspects, as I said earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u76	Thank you, President. We thank the Socialist Party for once again addressing this issue. We are going to vote in favour of the processing of this bill. We also have some doubt, or some discrepancy, with some aspect contained in this proposal and we would like to be able to debate it in a presentation in which we really anticipate the need to be debating together — worth redundancy — about an element that is not circumstantial to the party that governs at every moment, but rather it should even be a structural element of democratic quality, because it is based on absolutely basic rights of access or compliance with the right to health, contained also in the rules and in the Constitution itself. It is an element that in the last ten years — against what is said here — has been absolutely struck not only by the cuts in personnel and resources, but on many occasions — and the rule reflects some elements related to this — on proposals at the administrative level if you have been removed an important part of the autonomy capacity of the primary care, both administratively the primary care itself — and even now you are talking about the spokesperson of the Nationalist Block of Wales in relation to the administrations — as well as about the autonomy of the professionals themselves in primary care. So it's an important element to recover that capacity. Certainly, it destroys much easier than it is built and therefore all the proposals we make by opposition groups have a certain temporality and a need, too, of budgeting as we have seen here. I am fascinated by the ability not to know whether or not I am calling for a lack of truth, a lie, or an invention by the People's Parliamentary Group, which say that we do not bring any kind of proposals: if most of the proposals discussed in committee 5 are about health! We passed the legislation by bringing proposals: to increase staff, where these professionals come from, to arrange health centres, to meet the needs of hospitals... over and over again, and in this plenary as well. If we had made a record of the number of health proposals at this plenary session, I think they would take all the proposals that we brought to the parliamentary groups, and on many occasions they were budgeted and explained. In the area of primary care, we have been explaining and bringing proposals from where we consider that primary care professionals should go out, in pediatrics, in medicine, in nursing, in physiotherapy and in other professions that are not currently taken into account, such as psychology or occupational therapy. In that sense, the only thing the People's Party had been voting against and rejecting all the proposals brought by the opposition, without proposing anything. Only at the last hour did you move a little because the cluster of strikes and proposals from the professionals and the professionals made him lose his electoral result, as we have seen in these last elections. That's the only thing that motivates them and that's why they're sitting now. However, it's been two months since the technical commission and there's not a single measure that we have, or that we can put forward, that it's already being implemented or that it's going to be implemented after summer, when this deadline is over. That's the reality. We are not very fans, by the way, of the rules, such as when the accompanying laws are presented here, those administrative changes that alter several rules. But we understand that the Socialist Party's proposal is, once again, trying to propose something different than what has been discussed here. Because it is again and again voted against all the proposals brought by the opposition groups, whether they are PNL, legislative proposals or any other element that we have to deal with on a proposal. As for the amendment of the Health Insurance Act, we agree to fix the maximum number of consultations that a professional may have, not only in medicine. It is true that most of the indications of this proposal brought by the Socialist Party are dedicated to medical professionals, and we have many other problems in other professionals as well. And it's been — I insist — two months since Junta said he was going to put in place measures to limit the maximum of thirty for these consultations; and we don't know anything about that measure at all. And it's also an element that is not recent, that professionals have been campaigning for decades to try to transfer that a correct analysis, to listen to people who access the consultation or to make a diagnosis with the necessary time takes a margin that obviously cannot be met when the casualties and holidays are not covered — and they are called self-replacement or inter-replacement — or when primary care squares are depreciated, as indeed evidenced by the budgets of the Galician Board of Health, which show that reduction of staff. And we know now where the manager of Sergas gets that number of professionals -- that's what he said in a commission -- from a fixed picture that certainly does not correspond to the reality because they add up to it -- as the health advisor has already moved in the past full -- the temporary staff, that is, the potential staff and the interim and substitute staff. Therefore, it does not measure the temporality and structural precariousness of this system. Regarding the amendment of the Health Act to the administrative bodies, we are also aware of the position of the different groups in the previous debates in this chamber. We understand that a primary care agency should be guaranteed that had the ability, indeed, to manage, i.e., with administrative autonomy, but also with economic autonomy, that is, with the ability to have, as previously, planning related to needs within the boundaries of the communities where health centres work and not conditioned by the needs of hospital agencies. And in that element we should therefore debate or try to implement a little more as if we could give that new agency. The People's Party certainly didn't want to assume that it had to fix the mistake of eliminating primary care agencies, and now it wants to call them otherwise, but without ensuring the autonomy capacity of the same agencies. And what it has to do with the quality assurance of care: because if, in fact, it is necessary to return or make a report, a report from the catalog of diagnostic tests — which has already been proposed here at any other initiative. But also the autonomy of the professionals in requesting interconsultations and consultations with other professionals, not only of attention to the health centres, but also of those health centres with regard to hospitals. Because the reality is that they lose their capacity for autonomy and, therefore, they lose their capacity for intervention in that sense. And we believe that proposals and standards have to go much further to recover the loss of autonomy from professionals who are as well trained as the rest of the professionals in the Galician Health Service. And so that element is important. As far as recruitment is concerned, we have discussed here because we have made proposals on many occasions — which also coincided with professionals — of the need to establish a contract that avoids this absolute precariousness of temporality, of daily contracts, in many elements, mainly in relation to medical professionals in primary care. However, we are concerned about the fact that the proposal is not being implemented. The problem with the proposal also made by the Government, the People's Party, is that it does not solve the precarious situation, but rather increases it. And in this sense, we want to remember the situation that many professionals have. Because the Socialist Party proposes that these contracts be made for other professional categories as well. Vacancy, for example, now, also lasts what they last because with transfer contests they tend to last much less. Immunities with respect to services are no longer being signed. The problem is that interinstances are now being signed in relation to the entire Galego Health Service, and what they do is an element that is absolutely perverse, because with that kind of contract, what they can do is move the unit professionals, both in hospital care and primary care, in relation to health centers. I mean, it doesn't bind a place to a professional, to a center or to a unit, but what is currently being done is already being linked to the whole Sergas; so precariousness is the same because staff don't know where they're going to work on many occasions the next day, when they're interim and interim. And this is the situation that we have and, therefore, in establishing elements that speak of temporary contracts it is necessary to fine-tune a little more because what is being done is, in a rather perverse way, using these recruitment proposals — as if you saw with the contract that proposed the advice, but even with the current interintensities — to further encourage the precariousness of professionals. With which, now it seems like you're five, one, ten or fifteen years working because precariousness is practically the same, and therefore that's one of the elements that often denounces professionals. He doesn't give me time. As for the structure of jobs, we understand that it is necessary to set that minimum necessary for continuing attention points. They continue — by the way, tomorrow we will talk about this matter, we will ask the Health Counsellor— in the fight against precisely that precariousness; and also the minimal, the ratios, not only for medical professionals who, of course, never meet the 200-50 TIS, and therefore we need hundreds of cards, but also with the criterion of dispersion — we have it at all at other times — and of population ageing and chronicity. And, of course — and I'm finished because I don't have time — these reports that are always being requested in relation to that precariousness, with that eventuality within the public system. Because, really, we have a situation that is not the one that is moving here: the forty percent of many categories — in the case of nursing — was an element that we denounced thousands of people in that last OPE — is in a situation of eventuality within the public service. And, therefore, that situation has to be completed more than with contracts with public job offers. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u78	Thank you, President. Good morning again, gentlemen. Mrs. Prado wanted to talk about Carballo's election. Look, Mrs. Prado, I've already... called the mayor and congratulated him... look, I'm a Democrat and I accept the results, not as you do when the People's Party wins the autonomous elections. [[Murmurs.]] [[Interruptions.]] [[Applause]] Well, and I wanted to talk about the Circulation. I suppose it would be done by the Galician Nationalist Block with that amendment that he presented to the budgets, which made fifty-seven infrastructures with seventy-five million, which removed from a transfer to the Galician Infrastructure Agency. Two or three of them came perfectly to cover the seventy-five million, but they had to be well, at least, with a hundred municipalities. Well, that's what we're talking about. Mr. Torrado, the president said that if I were mayor, he would talk to me about the bus, but that doesn't take away that if his candidate was mayor, he would also talk to her about the bus. It's not, it's not, either, okay? [[Murmurs.]] Well, I publicly offered to accompany the mayor of that interview, there's no problem, that's on the radio and it's recorded, there's no problem. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, let's talk about health, because the elections are over. Look, Mr. Torrado, in primary care between 2008 and 2019 there is a budget difference of one hundred twenty-eight million euros; and from 2008 to 2018, one hundred thirty-eight million euros. Of course, we could value the year 2009, but you forget it was an election year. Of course, you say that the subject of the surplus has an announcement before the election. Listen, if we were talking about social Fridays, we wouldn't have anything to say at all, I'm sure that wasn't for the election at all. And you talked about little credibility. When it's now on that announcement of surplus spending, if you're talking about doing health centers, you're talking about what it's for the builders, after asking for in all commissions two, three, four or fifty health centers. Anyway, it's now for the builders. That's credibility. It's okay. And with regard to the pharmacy, between 2009 and 2016 and the following, there are about two hundred and twenty million euros less per year, which justify, as I told you, much of the budget discharge. But we've come here to talk about the modification of the laws you propose, the Guarantees Act and the health law of Galicia. With regard to the Galician Health Act you amend articles of the old law, none of the amendments that have been made in this Parliament. I agree with your statement of reasons that primary care is the health service closest to citizenship and also — although not at all — that in most cases it is the start of the most direct contact of the patient with the system itself. I think we need to move forward in preventing this attention in emergencies without going through primary care, in view of the resolution capacity that this one has. And I disagree absolutely with the supposed policy of cutting down of central and Welsh governments — of course, the PP — those who are experiencing the difficulties of public health in Galicia and Spain in recent years, which, in your opinion, are undermining the assistance capacity and hindering the work of professionals. I repeat, the budgets of the year 2019, starting from a one hundred and ten million euros decrease over the year 2008, have for public health three hundred and forty-eight million euros more. And the Primary Care Programme, because it actually has a decrease of more than a hundred million euros between 2008 and 2019, which this year is slightly reduced by the incorporation of surplus. But — I repeat — they always forget the savings that occurred in the cost of pharmacy recipe and pharmacy office recipe. That you, by the way, have appealed the decree before the Constitutional Court. We've been talking about staff spending before. In 2018 there were thirty-three million euros more in staff costs than in 2008: the career was recovered, the days of free will and other rights that were temporarily lost. But, of course, it always forgets that government has brought us to that situation, to the crisis situation, to that government of waste, to economic joys and to Plan E: the socialist government. And as usual, the People's Party had to come to fix the damage. I hope that for the sake of citizenship you will reflect and at this new stage of government that touches them — I repeat, I am a Democrat — do not repeat the mistakes of the past. And you speak in the statement of reasons for primary care strike. That strike was convoked after the negotiation with the committee, a question which did not seem to cheer the opposition groups very much and which ended with a halt of Vigo's optionals exclusively, with some controversy with trade unions, professional groups and associations. You know, as I said before, that we have just approved a plan of primary care, supported by the vast majority of professional groups with two hundred shares, of which 40 percent would be to carry out in the short term, in six months. They are measures to reorganize primary care, with an increase in the stability of professionals, disbursing their daily work and, at the same time, increasing coordination between care levels. Thirty-one new squares include this plan: eighty family doctors, twenty pediatricians, seventeen new family MIR squares and six pediatricians, one hundred thirty nurses, forty physics, twenty midwives and fourteen social workers, among others. It had just set up a primary care technical committee with fifty-five recognized prestigious professionals after the Council's commitment to trade unions. I hope, Mr. Torrado, that you and your group collaborate with the Council so that the Government of Madrid will finally authorize the increase in the number of MIR squares, believing the new teaching units of the Greek hospitals to achieve the maximum possible squares of family and pediatrics, which are, of course, the deficiencies in primary care of Galicia. The Government's commitment is to offer 100 per cent of the authorized squares. The Greek Primary Care Plan envisages much shorter measures and deadlines for implementation of the Madrid Plan, the Central Government Plan, the Ministry's plan. By the way, the coordinators who drafted it were dismissed, Dr. Martín Zurro and the Safe Doctor, who have a very important prestige in family medicine. We don't know why. You say the measures of the German Government go on an erratic line, not counting on a global strategic plan to be accepted by the affected groups. I think, after what's happened these last few days, that's true it's not like that anymore, is it? You propose to modify different articles of these two laws, and ask for a maximum of consultations per day, by primary family doctor, which would be covered by the law. And can you explain to me what it would do to the sick who were not cared for above that maximum of daily consultations, without professionals to attend to them? Would you send them to CAP emergencies, hospital emergencies or send them to the private? Look, Mr. Torrado, I've been in primary school for thirty-six years and I've been through many situations of excess and shortage of professionals; but I assure you that primary care is immediate, that consultations cannot be delayed in many cases, even if they are not emergencies from the clinical point of view, but rather from the perspective of patients. Passing this legal change within six months without the possibility of covering new squares would generate endless waiting lists. The worst thing is that you want those endless waiting lists in your future strategy, because you complain that there are primary waiting lists and then try to approve this, in the current optional situation, it seems quite incongruent. The catalog of diagnostic tests is under study and much progress has been made in the same; we don't think it has to be in a law. Retrieves integrated management managers from another article to create management or retrieve primary management, when they know that there is already a direction and that the creation of a primary direction is approved. Finally, it intends to include in the law a contract for temporary statutory staff, a type of employment contract included in a law for primary care doctors, hospital doctors and other categories; it does not seem to fit very easily this change in the articulate in the law. It also aims to bring into law the conditions or paintings of the workers of the CAP. It gives me the feeling that you want to get along with some other collective that is quite demanding on these dates. Six months — in the transitions — for one and the other: it seems to us that it is not easy. Ask later, in a transitional period, five thousand new squares. Where's the replenishment rate? In Mr. Sánchez's agreements with Podemos for budgets, the rate of restoration of health does not appear at all, nor does it overthrow or alter it. And, with regard to the target of five percent for potential staff in 2022, it is covered by the agreement in Galicia by 2020. Look, we're not in agreement, and we're not going to deal with your bill. We don't think it's coming to solve the fundamental problem of primary care at the moment, which has been this deficit of family optionals. Look, the article I was referring to is the AGAMFEC members — the directive — and in the first paragraph: "The health crisis in primary care has two fundamental causes: the ageing of the population and the retirement of staff." I think it is obviously clear. We don't know what collectives you consulted with this proposal, when most of them and their own unions are moving forward in the development of the primary Welsh Plan and the 200 actions they propose. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u79	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Replica from the author group of the bill, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u80	Thank you, President. First of all, of course, I would like to thank the support of BNG and En Marea, with certain discrepancies in the realizations of some things. We certainly have some different perceptions, but we have shared the decision or the idea of debate and progress — which we have seen as usual. It is true that the amendment of several laws was pointed out, although all of them from the health system, but the intention is to build this small advance, which seems to have no echo, because the People's Party decides not to support it. I didn't want to go in, but you'll allow me, Mr. Núñez Centeno. The truth is that I mentioned Carballo, and it's good that you -- and tell me, in addition; it seems to me an example -- recognises the results, of course, but I'm going to make a point: you say you're willing and you've offered to accompany the one who won the election to the Council. This Sunday's elections also said one thing: the time is up for talking to a counselor to go to someone from the People's Party. It's over! [[Applause]] What's surprising is that I still had to finish now. [[Mr. Núñez Centeno utters words that are not perceived.]] To say that I've already offered to go... we're going to leave the subject, because I think and I'm sure it wasn't what I meant, because I also know it and I know it doesn't have that model of operation; I'm convinced. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] There are a few questions that have been raised here about the proposal itself, but I think I was either unable to explain or they didn't feel right. In a short time, that most of the time you devoted yourself to discussing the explanatory statement, which is fine, because we shared some things and others not. In the data on the ratio of doctors and nurses and nurses per inhabitant, you offer me a report from a collective -- the data I give from INE. I know Mr. Feijóo says we don't know how to use the INE website, but I'm from the INE: third worst community in terms of optional staff and nursing staff in Spain. Mr. Feijóo says we don't know how to use the INE; we might as well look at the tables, but we're the third worst. Professionals exist, but they're out of Galicia because we treat them badly, because we condemn them to possible contracts. [[Applause]] And tell him the judges too! They also say it to the judges who are condemning the Galician Council and are paying compensation for being tired of the system and for having any contracts where they have to have stable contracts. About times, there's a curious thing: I've constantly heard here denying that we usually had more than fifty or sixty patients per professional in primary care; here it was systematically denied, because we were giving false and such data. However, now that we propose that the law pick up tops, they say it's not possible, because if you pick it up and you have to do it in six months, it doesn't take time. How will it not take time if they don't exist? If they don't exist, it takes time to do it, and if they don't manage it well, it's just that they exist. Again, they choose to lie before or lie now, but they agree. Even to lie, we have to maintain a certain capacity for consistency in the argument. There's something else. It is not possible to sustain, if we regulate a limit of a consultation ratio per day — which is what we propose — which happens with exceptions, with those who arrive urgently to attend to their head doctor in the morning. Man, I don't think the saturation problem is in those exceptions. Tell me we're in our 30 patients by doctor usually, but those who have sixty-sixty-five are because they're emergencies of the day: no, it's not true. We can make it easy; that is, we don't need to go one day, we can go ten days after ten different health centers: let's go, check all the consultations and see if those that exceed the thirty are by list or are because they arrive at the moment. If it's because they're coming at the moment, don't worry: I'm going up here and I'm telling you you're absolutely right about the world and we've been wrong for a long time. It's not true, they don't arrive suddenly: in the morning, the doctor or the doctor, when he receives them, has lists of more than forty, more than fifty and more than sixty. So we can't be saying this, because it's like that, because it works like this. From there on, beyond saying we're willing to have less than thirty, or, like tope, thirty patients per professional, beyond saying so, what? Because if we're not going to hire more specialists -- because they say there's no -- if everything's all right and if we can't regulate against it, what? Because the question is, what are we going to do? Besides saying that, besides telling you that there are a thousand fewer five professionals, there are not, because if there are, they're not paying them, because they don't give them the budgets; besides saying it, what? I'm not that I intend to be well, is that the CAP professionals demand that they be treated, because the CAP professionals have those circumstances that we are constantly reporting. And what's happened can happen again, because they're disregarding CAPs and because there's no professionals. So we are proposing a reform of the law that seeks to increase our staff and that we avoid being so angry that we have to be given judicial sentences, as Sergas receives, for breach of contracts, for saturating professionals or for having professionals concatenating contracts eventually when they do structural work. All this is indecent and we therefore ask for the current situation to be changed; we ask for it with this proposal and with many others. From then on, we think it's time to start changing; see if you're able from this moment on and if the PP understood that it's time to start talking something else and act less proudly and with a little more efficiency, because if not, we'll have the same problems again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u81	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u82	After the debate on the legislative texts was closed, we proceeded to vote on them. Close the doors, please. We started by voting on the legislative texts. Voting amendments to the full refund to the Galician Digital Administration Bill. We started by voting on the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Voting of the amendment to the total refund of G.P. from the Galician Nationalist Block to the Galician Digital Administration Law Project. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected as a whole.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u83	We are now voting on the amendment to the whole Socialist Parliamentary Group. Voting of the amendment to the total refund of G.P. from Galician Socialists to Galician Digital Administration Bill Project. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected as a whole.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u84	We are now voting on the amendment by the En Marea Parliamentary Group. Voting of the amendment to the total refund of G.P. From Marea to Galician Digital Administration Bill. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected as a whole.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u85	Rejected by the amendments to the whole refund, this bill continues the parliamentary process. We now vote to take account of the proposed legislation of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, of budgetary modification for the impulse of an improvement plan in primary care. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. Consequently, the consideration of this bill is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u86	We are now voting on the proposal for a regulation of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, for the improvement of primary care in the public health system of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. Consequently, the consideration of this bill is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u87	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. Change in agenda development
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u88	We're still on the agenda. In this case, there has been a change; we now make up the motions, point 3. In this case, the first motion is from the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantiños, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government and the actions to be carried out in relation to the needs of improving rail transport in Galicia, in particular between Ourense, The Coruña and Santiago de Compostela
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u89	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled. [[(G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Luís Manuel Álvarez Martínez, through his spokesman and in the light of Rule 151.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, presented the following amendment to this motion to the Bureau.Amendment of amendment.The resolution should be replaced by the following text:"The Parliament of Galicia urges the Council of Galicia to:1st. Participate in the planning, programming and management of the railway infrastructures incorporated into the State Network that speak through the territory of Galicia, through a Bilateral Cooperation Commission between the Autonomous Community and the State.2o. To enter into an agreement with the Central Government for the setting up of neighbouring trains, so that they can be operated from the Autonomous Community, in their case of appropriate transfers.3o. To request from the Central Government the transfer of powers on the authorisation of railway operators in the territory of Galicia and to assume exclusive competence in the implementation of new undeclared solutions of general interest and which are discontinuing entirely in the territory of the Autonomous Community of Galicia.4o. To request from the Central Government an equalization of tariff policies and arrangements throughout the Greek territory in order to avoid the current and obvious situation of discrimination taking place according to the place of residence of the Greeks and the Greeks, such as a reduction of the same 5°. To carry out the studies necessary to defend the improvements of railway services in Galicia, such as:a)the possible extension of current linesb)a study on demand to extend services in various populations, in order to have a solid basis for establishing the best exploitation of road infrastructures for the transport of passengers.c)the introduction of new hourly frequencies.6o. To submit to the Parliament of Galicia a report on the management carried out on the issues covered by this Agreement on a quarterly basis."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u90	To formulate the motion you have the word to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u91	Good morning to all and to all. In the previous plenary session, from the Galego Nationalist Block, we have brought to this chamber a debate that seems to us absolutely priority: the need to put an end to absolute discrimination and fraud in terms of prices and schedules that suffer in particular from the city of Ourense through the line Before we connect with Santiago and the Coruña, but also to other deficiencies of a railway system that we understand it obeys a centralist model that over the past few years has removed Galicia from the modernization and vertebration that needed the territory, thinking only and exclusively about connecting with the Meseta. In this way, today, there are services that are insufficient and that retain great deficiencies, which demonstrates discrimination in this matter that our country has suffered with different central governments, regardless of their colour. It's a discrimination that has also been exacerbated by an issue that is very relevant, which is the lack of commitment, lack of initiative and lack of political weight in the Galician Union. A few weeks ago we questioned the German Government for this reason; we betrayed this issue here to the debate, and the fact is that the answer by the advisor was regrettable. He came to respond to the election's anxious, nervous government's expectations with the results of the generals, nervous with the municipal forecasts and, in addition, with the uncompromising duties, because throughout the past year and a half he failed to meet the mandates of this parliament. He had to talk about the bus from other cities, because he didn't have much to say about the train. In our motion today, we put proposals for action on the table which we believe are relevant to putting an end to this economic abuse and to the insufficiency of service in the case of Ourense, but also, by extension, to the rest of the territory, as I shall explain later. Focusing on this, in particular, on the front line: it is something that seems serious to us, that affects thousands of passengers and passengers and that has a solution, in addition, that must be put on the table and that is political, of political negotiation. We're not talking about developing new and expensive infrastructures, but a political agreement just to have a fair train at a fair price. Exactly one year and three months ago, in this same House we approved at the initiative of the Nationalist Block Galego an agreement that had four basic points: to demand from the Central Government an equalization of rates and schedules along the territory, to extend the frequencies and schedules of this line in particular, to reformulate the terms of the transport charges and, finally, to extend the hourly frequency of the train we all know as "regional". It's four points from which very, very partially, only one and insufficiently met. Since the BNG we have been following this issue, not only a couple of weeks ago in this House but also through the corresponding parliamentary committee. And the truth is, the balance that we can make over a year later is that we not only didn't get better but the situation was the worst. We understand that this is something we cannot afford. When we reached this agreement, the People's Party ruled in Madrid, then it ruled the Socialist Party. Different presidents, different governments, but we still don't move forward. We then insisted on three fundamental problems: on one side prices, other frequencies and, finally, that the abandonment of the old plot was something we could not afford because the connecting needs of populations that today are practically isolated were many. These are three problems that are alive and therefore we understand that this motion should raise the support of the House. As far as price is concerned, discrimination continues to be evident. If in 2011, when this line was opened, the price was 13.50 euros, in 2018, when we approved the initiative I was referring to, the price between Ourense and Santiago is 16.60 euros. This was more than 60% of the average with respect to similar suits as between A Coruña and Santiago or Santiago and Vigo, which were much lower. The truth is, we've been the worst. Today, in May 2019, the route between Ourense and Santiago rose at a price of 1.10; and the rest, on the contrary, rose by an average of 32 cents — between Santiago and Vigo, 40, and between Santiago and A Coruña, 25—. This seems to us directly to be a painting of the Galician Nationalist Block. But, above all, Renfe froze the price of the nearby train in those places where the nearby train exists. Today, Galicia doesn't have a proximity train for a political decision, and therefore this is a matter for which our country is also discriminated against. And as for the subscriptions, we keep saying that their reformulation is insufficient, because it maintains the underlying problem, which is that anyone who acquires a bond has very little time to use it. So even if you increase your savings, you are not increasing your utility, because there is no margin for a person who has to come to study or work less time than five days, from Monday to Friday, to be profitable. In short, the result of this system, this absolutely irrational organization, and where Ourense is saved by chance because it's on its way to the Meseta, is that we have a model that has many negative questions. Today we see how we continue — I was insisting on this right now — without having a proximity train. And Galicia and Ourense also bear in mind that Members and honourable Members of all colors say above all that Galicia has been overfunded by the costs of AVE, when this has not been translated into a follow-up on neighbourhood improvement. And also, on the other hand, we see how other territories have what's called AVE low coast. I mean, we, at the moment, have neither AVE nor have we a network of proximity nor have we a train that has a logical price in our country; and, on the other hand, there are other territories that, while, have a low-cost AVE. And finally, it can also be pointed out — and we also mention that in our motion, in the alternative proposals that we present — that it is a problem to abandon the old route, a problem that will increase as high speed arrives. That road exists and it has to be used to connect intermediate populations, because instead of making connections, the truth is that in the last decade we have lost them — and we have examples around this city, like The Flag, like The Irish and so on. Some have completely lost connections and others have kept some that are absolutely insufficient. So in view of this battery of issues that I just pointed out, our conclusions are logical. It is necessary to take measures, measures that the BNG will defend which government in the Spanish state. First, for social justice, for the need for territorial balance. We're talking concretely about the impact this can have on the population of Ourense and we're talking about a part of our country that suffers from an even more serious demographic and population crisis than the whole of our country. So this would be a possibility to help settle the population. On the other hand, because we must not lose the perspective that the train is a public service; it is a public service which, in addition to this particular case is considered, has been considered, as a public service obligation and therefore received income from the State as well. So we understand that we have to take care that it's really a service worthy of such a name and not an accessory question, because we also pay our taxes to the ores and the Greeks. And finally, I would also like to remind you of an issue which seems very relevant to us in this debate. We're not talking about charity, we're not talking about a subsidiary matter. We argue that, indeed, public services must be either economically viable or not, because it is socially viable. But in this matter, above all, we're talking about a line that brings benefits, many and growing. Economic benefits are increased, passengers and passengers are increased, and transport tickets sold are increased. Seeing Renfe's most recent memory of 2017, we have an increase of 7.6% of travellers and travellers, we have an increase of 10.4% in terms of millions of euros of economic benefit, which is already 6.36% and therefore we have an overview that returns to us a reality that is unquestionable: that Ourense and Galicia are absolutely discriminated against by this issue and that this has to be done one day. So what we propose in this motion is that. First of all, that you meet the defendant a year and three months ago in this House, because the People's Party has relaxed its demands when it was still in the central government, but now we see that, even if a socialist government arrives, it does not serve to press through that path nor does the Government of Galicia seem willing to enforce this issue, even if it no longer governs a friendly government. And it also seems to us that it is time to remember that there have already been agreements in this Parliament to demand the transfer of competences in the field of internal train. It is a requirement that we have to have as a country, and therefore we demand that this be transferred with sufficient resources to be able to have a nearby public railway company. And then we insist on a question that seems to us to be central, which is that this collapse of the Avant line must be at least 30% to make it profitable for the population...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u92	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u93	And finally, we understand that the Galician Union also has the ability to maneuver and, therefore, it should also promote some kind of study...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u94	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u95	...to assess what use we have to give you that old way. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u96	Thank you very much. Mr Álvarez Martínez has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Presas, first of all, let me make some reference to rail transfers in other autonomous communities, particularly in Euskadi and Catalonia. In the case of Basquedi it is true that there are two lines that have recently been transferred, but that were the result of a ruling by the Constitutional Court of 2016, which decided that two lines that were included in the Catalogue of network lines of general interest corresponded to the Autonomous Community. It's still a matter that's not closed, and the government of Basquedi continues to demand the transfer of eleven more lines. In the case of Catalonia — and I will finish with this small comparison — it is true that since 2010 Generalitat has transferred the management — management, I insist — of the so-called "circanies". But the said transfer did not in any case take any transfer of trains or rolling stock, stations, workshops or road infrastructure. It is not appropriate, of course, to confuse this with the railways of the Generalitat de Cataluña, which, as we all know, correspond better to what the metro and tram lines are coming. On the content of his motion, it is true, reference was made to the fact that on 7 February 2018 this plenary unanimously adopted a non-law proposal that basically required the central government to balance tariff policies and modalities, request the central government to extend the hourly frequencies to improve Ourense's communication with Santiago de Compostela and A Coruña, reformulate the terms and conditions of the transport bonds, and extend the hourly frequency of the regional line. I think we should ask ourselves the following question: what did the Council of Galicia do with regard to that non-law proposal — if it did something —? Because everyone we're here knows that non-law proposals are driving a government action. Of course, the Government may not make any case of such a non-law proposal which is approved — even if it is unanimously, as was the case in the Galician Parliament. With regard to the points of your motion, the first point we understand would need some clarification. Because our understanding is not well known what is being claimed under the use of the term "internal rail transfer." It's a rather ambiguous term to define what you want or what you can encompass exactly. If we understand by this the management of what is called "neighbourliness" or "proximity", as it seems to be deduced from the second part, our consideration could be favourable, as has already been expressed in the numerous and abundant proposals adopted in that sense in recent years by this House itself. And that doesn't necessarily mean asking for infrastructure transfers, as I was talking about earlier compared to the case of Catalonia — i.e., no road transfers, no saws or stations. Because, of course, that should be shared with other long lines. And it wouldn't make sense, we understand, to prevent so-called long-distance trains coming or leaving Galicia from enjoying their own management mechanisms. That's why this expression of "neighbourly train" may seem more suitable for the future, because it doesn't seem congruent at present to ask for a transfer of something that doesn't exist in reality, to the difference between other autonomous communities. On the second point of his motion, which was already voted favourably as it was in the non-law motion, we thought that it should be done only for the railway transport Ourense-Saintiago-The Coruña and not to take into account the rest of the lines limits the action of this motion, since it does not collect that possibility for other cities. What shall I tell you, coming from Lugo, about the rail transport of people between that city and the rest of Galicia? What am I going to tell you? Besides, you know it perfectly well too. With regard to point 3 — you have just mentioned — there is indeed clear discrimination as to the cost of the ticket between Ourense, Santiago and La Coruña. For example, the Avant train between Santiago and La Coruña now has a tariff of 7.60 — if we don't look bad, which I don't think—. And between Santiago and Ourense, 17.70. It's an absolutely inescapable difference, and certainly inexplicable if it's not a policy that must be clearly corrected. We therefore fully agree with that existence of such discrimination. And point 4 of his motion could be considered to be that it can be addressed directly by the Council of Galicia, as it requests to carry out this study; and, on the basis of that study, in the conclusions, to carry out the report, with which it could have a greater basis for the claim being made in the motion. That's why we tabled a substitution amendment — which you know, and obviously I'm not going to read because I don't have time — that we understand that it goes beyond that frame in the clear sense that we share the bottom of your motion but that we understand that it must go further and that it should be treated in a more global way. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u98	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u99	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Let us therefore support this initiative, which seems to us to be very beneficial in various matters. On the one hand, it seeks to ensure territorial and social cohesion, and to fight against this discrimination suffered by Galicia — in this particular case the province of Ourense, more specifically Ourense. We also believe it is necessary for the fight against climate change, because mobility is a key field of action to combat climate change, where basic public transport is rail. And he's the best ally for collective transport. And it also seems strategic to us to improve road safety, a problem that the People's Party has managed to put back on the first level of importance after ten years of continuous decline in road fatality and mortality figures. Thanks to the passage through the Central and Autonomous Government of the People's Party, it's again a top-level problem, increasing again and changing that positive trend. We agree with the positive powers to develop a proximity train in Galicia that is public and that ends with that drift from successive governments in the State towards the gradual privatization of the railway service, which is constantly cutting personnel and outsourcing services, and even today lines will be launched directly led by private operators. So be social, have affordable prices and seek equality and ease of access to service for all citizens. We also agree to defend the parliamentary agreement in connection with Ourense to break up with this discrimination of the Ourense railway service, in which it is also a classic one of the People's Party, which is to approve measures and PNL in this Parliament which may be negative and vote against in front of the electoral processes, but which then keeps them in a drawer and does not carry them out. At the end of the railway we also have the case of the frequencies and schedules of the Atlantic axis, which have also been approved two years ago in this Parliament, and until today the People's Party and the Government of the Union have done absolutely nothing to move forward in this direction. And there is also a very specific case that demonstrates this lack of commitment by the People's Party and this government in the fight against climate change and in the advance of the forms of sustainable mobility that it has to do with an approval of more than a year ago to install a bicycle parking lot in this Parliament which costs 300 euros, and of what we still know absolutely nothing today. That shows the absolute lack of commitment of this government to the fight against climate change and sustainable mobility. We also agree to lower the prices of the Avants, which is already approved in this Parliament too, and which is fundamental because it is discrimination that is totally unjustified. There's no reason why there's this price difference. We also agree to take the service from Avant to Monforte and also to improve the vertebration of this area, which is truly deficient. We also agree with the study of expanding service in Ourense and Compostela and expanding stops, and we also agree with the need to do so elsewhere. But we understand that this proposal is a very concrete proposal, which is addressed to the Ourense area, and therefore we agree to bring it forward. Finally, we also agree on the request to send Parliament a progress report on a quarterly basis, because we also know that nothing is being done on these issues and the People's Party says that it is being done. We saw the same thing as in the AP-9 Committee, which the chairman went out to say that a commission was put in place and that it was ultimately a real lie, because he never met at all, as the advisor has already shown every time he was asked about these meetings. He could never answer what had been done about it. Behind this refusal by the People's Party and the Government of Galicia to work to improve the railway service is behind a political project, a political project that does not fight against climate change, which gives it absolutely equal this first-level problem that our society has and does nothing to solve, and which gives it absolutely equal right to mobility. It's collected in the Constitution but the People's Party gives it absolutely the same. We will therefore support this initiative because we are in favour of progress. For us progress is to defend the right to mobility, to defend equality between citizenship. And for us progress is to fight climate change, because if we don't fight climate change, there's no future and therefore no progress. For our own sake, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u100	Thank you, Mr. Cal. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u101	Good morning. Thank you, President. This will be the only issue of debate on transport that comes to the plenary today, because the Socialist Group withdrew its inquiry on the Transport Plan, since it was known that it was being endorsed by the Administrative Tribunal for Public Procurement in Galicia, as it had already done in the first phase of the State court. Of course this plea was expired, but the truth is, the interest the group had already seen. In the past it didn't come, and we had to bring us that interest, because what really matters is to weaken the government by amplifying the demands of entrepreneurs, who are legitimate for their part, but supportive. We prefer to continue to defend the general interest, and we rejoice in this decision of the Administrative Court of Public Procurement. [[Applause]] On the other hand, the BNG brings today, under the title of the Ourense-Santiago-The Coruña line, other things. What brings — the truth is, it's not new, it's predictable and it's not the first time — it's transfers. I believe that we have already discussed a lot about this issue in this Parliament, and we will continue. They have every right, and we also have every right to maintain our position and maintain our position. Of course, Mrs. Olalla, I know you have a lot to say, but, Mr. President, this time should be taken into account. I mean, what brings us, besides asking for those transfers, is that Galicia assumes the deficit these lines have assumed as well. So at the end of the day, what they're asking, as the counsellor said the other day, is that the Greeks lose and the state wins in economic terms. I can tell you that these lines were budgeted in the state's general budgets in 2018 at 60 million euros, which is what we're talking about, of 60 million euros, because, these deficit lines are, as I was saying, a public service obligation to guarantee not only these lines but all the stops and reasonable prices, which would be unfeasible if they had to be paid at the user's cost. You speak, as I say, of decision-making capacity with regard to tariff policy. But they could apply the story and, where they rule, for example in Pontevedra, allow children under the age of 19 to have free tariffs. That would be an equalization of tariffs, that those under 19 can have it for free, as they have in other cities. But, you see, in general, what did the three groups do? Trying to transfer the powers of the central government to the United States. Why don't you refer to the Central Government, socialist, who has to do these things that you ask for? Because railways are state competences. What's wrong? I can assure you, in addition, that these applications have already been transferred to the Central Government, to the State Government. He has done so on several occasions in writing by the Councillory and the German Government itself. Since it is done, what is left now is that the socialist government of Pedro Sánchez meets these requirements that not only by letter, but at the meetings they have, they are done repeatedly. So the problem is not what you demand, the problem is what you don't meet, which is Pedro Sánchez and the socialist government. Because the demands are made by Galicia, they are unanimously approved in this Parliament, and they are transferred to the central government. The problem is, the central government doesn't meet them. And if we talk, PSOE gentlemen — because they also spoke of "timely transfers" in the amendment — we start by talking about the AP-9 transfer. That's where we got a good sign from where we're going. In any case, I insist that these are state powers. To ask the Galician Council to report and study on services that are of State competence, I sincerely believe that it is to try to divert the focus, to try to blame her, as in the case of transport. It is to try to mount trouble to hide that, really, what we have behind us is that the government of Pedro Sánchez does not comply with Galicia, which is another of the constants of this government in the year that he has been there. In any case, the Council has always transferred its will to the Central Government, not only of these requirements, but of helping as much as possible in its competences. We believe that the whole part of the Ourense-Santiago-The Coruña line has already been approved, the only thing left is to fulfill the rule of Pedro Sánchez. It is not the Union's problem, it is the one to meet the unanimous requirements of this Parliament. And we don't think it's appropriate for us to ask an administration to make the reports of another administration, such as the Ministry of Development, which has all the competences, which has every means to be able to do these studies. We will therefore not be able to support this motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u102	Thank you. For the motion's own group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u103	Well, I'm a little confused, because with the same text the People's Party accuses me of going too far to almost independent generalities. Unfortunately they have voted on successive occasions in favour of the transfer of competences. And the Socialist Party says that the problem is that it is too concrete on the question of Ourense. In any case, we thank the Socialist Party for its willingness to try to reach a dialogue. We hope that later we can reach some agreement. Just some shade, Mr. Álvarez. For us the debate is not how the situation is in Euskadi or Catalonia, but how we want it to be in Galicia. And in that sense, regardless of the problems each of these administrations may have, because frankly from the BNG we envy that, for example, Catalonia can have with Rodalies decision-making capacity in schedules and rates, among other matters. And we understand that this is the way to walk: that Galicia has the ability to manage and decide on fundamental aspects of this area, whether it's fortune or not, the creation and explanation of the motion's text. What we don't agree with is the position of the People's Party. Mr. Pazos, a worthy heir to the doctrine of the counselor of the other day, spoke more about the question of bus transport and the metropolitan transport of Galician Union than about the question which has been debated. And again he showed that he didn't have much to say. Because one thing, Mr. People's Party, is the competences currently in Galicia and another is what we would like you to have. And a third is the incompetence of the People's Party in defending the agreements of this Parliament. Because you've reached this agreement because it's seen that, uniquely and exclusively, you see that it could cause them some trouble in Ourense, when you were still in the central government. And they did nothing but formally address the central government. They didn't do anything else, they didn't value the political weight of the Galician Union, because it's tending the weight pen, the weight zero. That's the main problem. Unfortunately, and even in other matters if they assume it as their own flag, because you do not now rule, because they seem to be resigned to this issue. They seem good at maintaining that price discrimination with Ourense, in a particularly bloody way. Besides, they come here to lie. They don't seem to have read the motion text. No tariff deficit is required here. First, because we're not talking about a line that is defective; and secondly, because when we talk about transfers, we talk about transfers with the necessary resources. It would only be necessary to make those deals that you do, that Galicia has to take on tasks that do not take up the state and above all not have the proper funding, when we enter the State's ark with our funding system. And so it's absolutely inaccurate and you talk about what they've argued, balloons outside to let you not see the fundamental question, which is that you have allergies, first, that this country has autonomy and sovereignty over the issues that affect it, and secondly, that you end this discrimination. I'm telling you, just like we've been discussing AP-9 450 times a week, BNG will ensure that this issue is also going to be on the table, because it's a fundamental problem for the Greeks and the Greeks. And if it is the State's competence right now, it gives us the same. The point is to find a solution, come where it comes from. And we'll keep putting it on the table. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u104	Thank you. A transaction is pending, right? Thank you. G.P. motion. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Maria de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and da Luca Chao Pérez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the protection and conservation of cultural, architectural and archaeological heritage
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u105	There's an amendment from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u106	To formulate the motion, you have the floor to Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u107	Good morning to all and to all. We bring again as a motion a transcendental and very important trem for our heritage, for our culture. We have already said in the interpellation that our historical helmets were in danger and that this law could empty out of content the intervention framework of historical sets. Allow me six previous considerations. First, cultural heritage is a fundamental individual and collective right, from strategic conception to all affirmations of consciousness and collective identity and its social property and its enjoyment. Restoration, rehabilitation and renewal must be careful and respectful. That's how advanced societies and cults care about their history, the legacy of ancestors, so that future generations can enjoy it. Secondly, it is very worrying, very much, that attempts to privatize, trade freely and deregulate the social control of cultural heritage by large private interests and neoliberal governments, such as the People's Party. We claim and defend the increase of public ownership, collective access, social use and belonging to Galician cultural heritage. Fourthly, the defense and preservation of cultural heritage is part of an altruistic moral and ethical commitment to the common good, and based on the knowledge of the goods we refer to. Fifth, the need for democratic participation and control in the defence of heritage management is a basic necessity of the whole community. It is a matter of avoiding, ultimately, aggressive or destructive counterfeiting of the heritage. Secondly, at the legal level, we have already said in the interpellation that this German law of the three "r" violated the Law of Cultural Heritage, I violated the Law of Welsh solely, I violated the Constitution itself, I contradicted the European guidelines, I contradicted a lot of principles. And it must be remembered that I also violated the Spanish Historical Heritage Act. It must be remembered that this law, which is 1985, emphasizes, in its threshold, the role of citizenship as a true source and ultimate recipient of the protection of cultural heritage. This seems consistent with the wording of the guiding principles set out in the Constitution and the statutes of autonomy in relation to culture, the processes that define the rules for the protection of immovable property declared BIC in historical modalities and assemblies, and with others. And this law requires the adoption of a special protection plan for the advance goods. First of all, with regard to laws, it must also be said that in our order there are guiding principles and rights which impose a concrete obligation on public authorities to facilitate access to culture and to guarantee the preservation of cultural heritage. Well, in the definition, origin and nature of the obligations imposed on public authorities, it is fundamental and transcendental that culture, as a genre, and cultural heritage, as a species, have an inescapable importance for citizenship because of its close link, indeed, to popular cultural identity. All of this has a key importance and relevance within a state that is defined as social and democratic in law. It necessarily imposes this social, dynamic and participatory approach to the protection of heritage. Well, on this line, and by analyzing all these laws that bind and force the administration of Greece to legislate without contradicting the basic principles, they are offering no satisfactory basis. It seems very serious, in addition, that neither in the design nor in the development of the law takes into account the centrality of citizenship and the social value and valuation that presents this heritage as an element of cultural identity. As a reflection, this law should promote a paradigm shift. It's not like that. The cultural heritage, of which all the citizenship of Galicia is ultimately, together with the generations that are yet to come, legitimate owner, is not something that can legislate on the edge, on the back or in front of the interests of the community. Well, our starting premise, therefore, is that both the constitutional texts and the others mentioned give very clear mandates. They're not just indications, they're warrants. It's not an invitation, it's not an invitation, it's real orders. And legislate in the opposite direction can even be penalized. And we've already brought here several key aspects that have to do with the motion we present. And, of course, the Environmental Adviser, Territorial Planning and Vivenda didn't answer any of the six questions we asked him. We don't really understand the inhibition of the Culture Council, either, for nothing. Finally, the Environmental Adviser, Territorial Planning and Living assured that the protection of the heritage was guaranteed and that it would be planned through any plan or other tool. But all laws, even the Law of the Land, the Law of Historical Heritage, the Constitution itself and the Law of Historical Heritage of Spain, clearly say that every tool goes through a special management plan. They're totally jumping. And in the light of the question of how I intended to guarantee the protection — which I have not answered — it is interesting to note that, when a law is drafted saying that a special plan is useless, nothing can be expected to solve, re-enter and benefit Galicia. The second question was if I didn't notice they could lose values. There are many values that come into play in this law. The first and most important is social value. There is also archaeological, architectural, historical and even economic value. It seems that the People's Party is primarily interested in economic value, especially in the profitability it can derive from this value. Finally, the law of Galicia eliminates controls, controls of works both inside and outside the property. This is an absolute mistake because it reduces the standards of protection established — in particular by Article 19 of the LPHE Law. That's why we can consistently affirm that our historical helmets are in danger and that they can be emptied of content the intervention frameworks of the sets. And we're suffering major damage and irrecoverably losing much of our heritage. Not everything is heritage, but we have a rich heritage. And, in general, it's being lost because of urban speculation, uncontrolled construction and ambiguous management guidelines. And we also stated that there are contradictions and legal insecurity, which is very clearly defined in Article 9.3 — which clearly establishes the principle of legal security — of the Constitution itself. We were also talking about the possibility of incurring an alleged expolation. And we are convinced that this can be the case if we do not establish historical and artistic criteria that make administrative action a very clear regulatory action. Then the police are there. Finally, to finish, we also talked about the possibility of unconstitutionality. That's why we bring here this motion with the four points that are clearly defined and that all of you have been able to read: to guarantee protection and conservation, to resolve contradictions of legal insecurity, not to incur on alleged police and not to incur on alleged unconstitutionality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u109	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. We, from the Galego Nationalist Block, agree with the exhibition that Mrs. Cuña has just made. In fact, we have already warned, and we have also denounced, throughout the process of processing the Rehabilitation Act, the serious deprotection it presupposes for Galicia's cultural heritage. We also defend that protection through the amendments we tabled, which were rejected by the People's Party. It is introduced in this law — which is already published and is already in force — a number of changes that directly conflict, and even contravene in some cases, the legislation that is currently in force in our country, both the 2016 Cultural Heritage Act and the Land Law. Among other matters — not much to the detail and concrete of the articulate, because it has already been the subject of debate — is this serious deprotection of the cultural heritage which it foresees and that contradiction that is established with the effective legislation we see them, for example, with the privatization of public spaces, which is envisaged in the legislation itself with the excuse, or in view of that, to solve the needs of accessibility and energy efficiency — in Article 13. This runs counter to article 56 of Galician Cultural Heritage Act and also to the planned or collected in the Land Law. The door is opened to the alteration and destruction of the plot—something which also contravenes Article 56. Legal insecurity is created by calling for the explicit application of legislation with normative shortcuts, such as Article 40, in relation to interventions in historical sets and areas of special protection planning, which is subject entirely to this Rehabilitation Act against what the general plans of municipal management, the autonomous basic plan, development planning and catalogues approved prior to the entry into force of this Rehabilitation Law — simply by placing some examples of that contradiction that goes directly against what is collected in our legislation, in the legal framework of Galicia, in particular in that Law of Heritage and in the Law of Soil—. That is why we, at that time, in addition to the amendments tabled by the Galego Nationalist Block, which we proposed was the hearing, the hearing in this Parliament during the process of processing, as provided for by the House's own Rules of Procedure, among other officials, among other institutions, of the Directorate-General for Heritage, which did not participate at all in spite of the enormous changes that the law introduces in that process, or of the Galician Council of Culture; appearances which the People's Party has vetoed, against, I insist, of the Rules of Procedure, such as that hearing to the agents concerned or involved in the texts themselves. And in that sense also goes a little bit to the amendment we tabled today, which we also understand is to complement a little of the decisive part of the motion that I stand for today in Marea. What we propose as an addendum is that we request a report from the Board of Culture on the effects this Rehabilitation Act has — or could have — on the cultural heritage of our country. And we do so, in addition, by calling on the Galician Council of Culture to be a statutory institution which has among its powers to advise, analyse and bring forward proposals; always with the objective of ensuring the safeguarding and protection of our country's cultural, material or intangible heritage. And no, because what we could hear -- I don't know if they'll remember, because it's been several weeks before -- was the consideration that the Environmental Adviser made of the Council of Culture in this House, which little less than she thought — with all due respect for neighbouring associations -- a neighboring association. We're talking about a statutory institution, I insist. And we understand that, since they have watched the participation and attendance of the Council of Culture during the process of processing the law, the minimum — seeing the contradictions in its articulation with the current legislation and the deprotection in which the cultural heritage of this country is to a large extent — is that at least if you give it a hearing now and that that report is required to see what the consequences will be. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u111	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Mrs. Cuña, the truth is, by reading your initiative, we can only tell you that it is. If we are asked that if we want the protection and preservation of cultural heritage to be guaranteed, of course we will say yes; if we want the possible contradictions and the legal insecurity that could have been contained in this law, we will also answer that yes; and if we want it not to be incorporated into alleged police or unconstitutionality, of course we will answer that yes, because all your proposals are obviously desirable. And all his proposals, in addition, coincide with many of the warnings that we have already expressed since this group, including that of the absence of a report by the Culture Council on this law. It is true that there have been certain issues which have already been resolved during the processing or, at least, have been at least slaughtered. But he warned us, it is true, and he keeps alerting us to that articulate we believe he is subject to interpretations by technicians and jurists, who are the ones who will ultimately carry out this law. And they worry about them because they are these empty interpretations, or that overlap of legal powers, which can open precisely the doors of decisions against the ultimate duty that the Administration should have, which is to ensure the ultimate conservation and protection of the heritage, and also its values, as you have stated. And unfortunately, this interpreting character of the law is not something that should surprise us neither as new. I invite them to see, if not, the consultations which from many municipalities, for example, are formulated to the Consultative Council itself on the interpretation of articles of laws; for example, how was that of the Galician Land Law. That's why it's so important to clarify the application and the procedures that have a lot to do with the articulate, to know exactly the possible consequences. We have also expressed our reservations about the course of this law, and we do not believe that the speeding up of a process can be justified by shortcuts that are not exempt from danger. More than that, you can't guarantee protection from what you don't even know. And let me give you an example that in this case is transversal, but I think this is a good example: Galicians before 1901 are goods of cultural interest, so it seems, or it seems, that they are fully protected. But it's not true, it's not true, because it's of no use this protection if they're not properly invented and catalogued. And this is a very serious thing. And it's very serious because today in Galicia there are horrees who are unique, who are even the last example of some type of harrow, and who are unchallenged, of those who have no documentary record. Therefore, if you disappear, no warning will be turned on. And since this is a competition from the municipalities, one cannot ignore the ultimate responsibility of the Galician Union, which has to ensure compliance and the obligation to protect the Greek heritage by helping, among other things, to promote these catalogues. Therefore, the shortcomings of the Rehabilitation Act are already born of the shortcomings and disincentives expressed in other laws, such as that of protection of heritage. Our feeling? Well, that heritage law is a law that has already been screened, a screen law that is only to appear the fulfilment of a constitutional mandate but with little interest in guaranteeing it. And this law of rehabilitation to which it comes is precisely to demonstrate and even amplify that defect; on the one hand, with the decrease in limitations to act on buildings with structural and environmental protection, and on the other, and perhaps much more serious, with the equalization of possible actions in one and another degree of protection. What brings us to the ground — and let us be clear — is the very usefulness of structural protections. Why protect what is then unprotected without any kind of complex? And, if that point is disturbing, it is also the competence of the municipalities to directly inform the licenses in actions that do not affect the facades of buildings located in areas of protection. It's disturbing because this will make it difficult, among other things, to detect elements that might be protected. And I'm also setting an example for them. When an application for an internal performance licence was issued earlier in an area building, such as an ARI, it went to the Galician Joint Heritage Service, which received information from all that building. If during the review a unique element was warned to understand the Administration which was deserving of specific protection, communicate it to the promoter or promoter and to the local administration, and indicate the implications and restrictions that brought about this protection. This filtering was the one that allowed to protect singular elements; for example, like interior carpentry, like singular stairs, soils of handmade hydraulic tiles, forged, ceilings, do you realize?, all elements that are impossible to appreciate or value from the outside. And if the licenses of interior elements are managed in the municipality itself but with the only purpose of agitating and facilitating it, the answer is clear, and all this singular heritage that is not visible will be lost, which will be a polishing, that consented and silent self, of our heritage. And this takes us to the last of the reflections. Regardless of which administrations report a file affecting a set or protected area, it should always be carried out with the same guarantees, the same resources and the same training. Heritage cannot be a currency of exchange in anyone's hands, you have to guarantee at all times your monitoring and your ability to value it. And in order for this to happen, we must also provide the councils with the necessary personnel, with the necessary resources, so that they can develop their functions on an equal footing with those already being given in the Autonomic Administration. For all this, and for the guaranteed nature of this proposal, which we consider to be obvious, our group will support it without regret. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u113	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. For, listening to the three interventions that preceded me in the word, it is clear that there is an attempt to confuse the law of rehabilitation with the deprotection of the heritage. Indeed, Mrs Cuña, this is the third time you bring here an initiative with this base. You're part of false premises; therefore, you come to wrong conclusions. And, as a result of that mistake, it's the four points you pick up your motion today. Of course you haven't read the explanatory statement of the law, because otherwise you don't understand that it persists in your argument, made by the speakers of both the Galician Nationalist Block and the Socialist Party. The objectives of the law are clear, they are perfectly defined: to preserve the rich building heritage, to maintain its characteristic uses and traditional population and to attract new generations so that they can settle in the renewed spaces. The law textually says, "Historical sets must develop an active role as spaces that provide the city with added value, forming part of the citizenship set of life and having a positive impact on global development." And it goes on to say, "With the implantation and impulse of cultural equipment, with the dynamization of commercial activity, with the preservation and improvement of quality public spaces and with the help of edifying rehabilitation to achieve the improvement of the housing and energy efficiency of housing and buildings, traditional population maintenance is intended for possible processes of gentrification." I understand that none of the groups represented here are against these principles. And it was done that chance, Mrs. Cuña!, you, who so much quoted the Charter of Krakow in your intervention in the inquiry before the advisor, which turns out that this Charter of Krakow always involves regarding the city as a morphological, functional and structural set, and that any restoration project must connect heritage issues with economic and social aspects. Go, Mrs. Cuña, it seems that this law does agree with Krakow's letter! But it also agrees with the Leipzig Charter, the Marseille Declaration, the Toledo Declaration or the 2020 Strategy. Because, Mrs. Cuña, the People's Party is the guarantor of the preservation of our heritage as much as you care for. This law fully understands rehabilitation because it defines instruments, establishes mechanisms for coordination between administrations and individuals, and also establishes socio-economic and cultural measures to preserve the built heritage and restore its functionality. But you'd rather talk about deprotection, you'd rather talk about deprotection. The deprotection is in abandonment, the deprotection is in the farrago and slow administrative processing. And it's also in the loss of economic resources, for example the help of the Housing Plan, as happens in the ARI of Santiago de Compostela's historic helmet thanks to the null management of his colleagues in Open Compostela, who dismantled, for example, the OCiHR office. Now give him the same, of course. When the tree falls, everyone makes wood of it. The law is clear, it does not create legal insecurity or contravene the Law of cultural heritage or all that it has named. Or do you think the judicial services of the Galician Union are inepts? Because it's obvious that all laws or policy initiatives have a legal service filter. At least at the current Galician Summit yes. You're missing the truth. First of all, because the Rehabilitation Act itself not only maintains but also empowers the figure of special protection plans. And of course it would be desirable that all the goods inside the Catalogue of Cultural Heritage already had a plan of protection, of course it would be necessary. You also miss the truth because it says that the actions provided for by the Rehabilitation Act are against the Cultural Heritage Act. And it's not true. These proceedings are perfectly in line with Article 42s)20. Mrs. Pierres was setting the example of the city council's direct licensing provision. It already exists today. The Town Hall of Santiago makes direct licenses in the historical helmet because there is a commission in which it participates in the board and experts of recognized prestige. Or what? Are you implying that municipal technicians shouldn't or can't interpret and enforce the law, this and any? Are you implying that there is no heritage sensitivity in the municipalities? Are you implying that the municipalities are looking to the other side when acts are being committed against the heritage? Obviously, Mrs. Pierres if you think so. It is clear that no public administration will allow the spoil of the property that is part of the historical heritage, because it is precisely the public administrations that guarantee the enforcement of the law, yes, of that article that you put such a lime in your proposal. And, of course, this Rehabilitation Act fits perfectly with Article 46 of the Spanish Constitution, because Article 46 seeks the same thing as the law: to guarantee the preservation of heritage, whatever its legal regime or title. Ladies and gentlemen, the Rehabilitation Act is an opportunity to recover our historical helmets. They don't ring with false arguments and catastrophic messages, and let me recommend them a book by the architect Pons-Sorolla. I'm sure Mrs. Pierres knows him, but if they don't know him, take a look at him because with you at the time of Pons-Sorolla nothing that was done in Santiago de Compostela would be possible. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio. For the motion's author group, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u115	Well, first I mean we're going to accept the BNG amendment. And we also ask here what is due to the inhibition of the Council and the departments responsible for the conservation and management of the heritage. Of course, this inhibition gives you some responsibility for defence, alteration, falsification, disfigurement or destruction of heritage. In the period of amendments it was asked not to pass the law so that, among other things, some of your articles might be harmful to our community. It wasn't, and we've already brought here that the Council of Culture should report. These reports should be based on rigorous and contrasting studies of a historical, aesthetic, structural, constructive and technical nature, according to each subject in which they intervene, because these cannot be generalized. The law has to be established, documented, and there has to be an extreme quality cartography. We also thank the attitude and support of the Socialist Party of Galicia. Of course they're respectable, and there may be many interpretations. This motion that we bring here is not an individual motion, in short-lived, no, it is done after consulting and talking to many collectives, because it is a social right to reject those laws that are harmful to the community. Heritage outcomes you have named some, Mrs. Ángeles. We believe that there is no need to silence any destruction of significant goods. I'm going to quote some defeats, like Monterrey or Chandebrito. On one occasion, part of the destruction has the responsibility of the Administration itself. Even — and you know very well — the Way of Santiago as UNESCO's world heritage is also in danger. There have been changes in his plot and many sad mistakes. We could also quote Monforte or the Indian heritage, like that of the Naveira brothers, at Betanzos. But what we're interested in -- that's enough to finish -- It's a lot of things and a little bit of time, I hope to be very clear. Intentionality here is the defense of heritage as individual and collective rights. To conclude, with regard to the Charter of Krakow, conservation and protection techniques must be strictly linked to multidisciplinary, scientific, matter and technology research. It's not worth disguiseing with bureaucratic agility what can be a danger and have terrifying consequences for our heritage. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of da Patricia Vilan Lorenzo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with the Plan of Judicial Infrastructure 2010-2015
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u117	There are amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Galician and Popular Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u118	To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u119	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, almost. We'd like it already because we'd already eaten! But well, good morning to all the lords. Move Plan, much more than 50% not executed. Rules of the Hunting Law, not developed for more than five years. An animal welfare law regulation, not developed for the past year and half, and a judicial infrastructure plan, not running at 30% or so, when it was to end in 2015. These are four examples of that efficient and effective management that President Feijóo boasts every time he has to speak. The other day, the vice president of the Government said that this plan in 2009 was really a projection towards the future because there were unforeseeable factors. An obvious thing, because the future is never predictable. And one of those factors was the economic crisis. But of course, in 2009, when Mr. Feijóo was President of the Board and Mr. Rueda vice president, when they began to seal, the economic crisis had already existed, they already knew; in fact, it was that bug that was mentioned in the elections of 2009, but, apparently, it was not worth making a minimum forecast for Tui, Pontevedra, Vigo, Sarria, Walls, The Road, Cambados or Arousa Vilagaría, where the judges at the moment are non-existent. Those forecasts were supposed to be based on the needs of legal operators and the evolution of the Administration of Justice. That unpredictability was to prevent the judges from being executed on these sites. Well, it's gonna be like that! But for that we don't understand why a plan was made, because the plan is about to predict exactly what to do, we suppose, and there was also a previous report that had been negotiated. You see, those forecasts weren't too accurate. In the case of Pontevedra, Tui and Vigo, it will end Vigo in 2020, Tui probably in October of this year and Pontevedra possibly in November of this year as well. But Sarria, Walls, Roads, Cambados and Vilagaría probably have to wait until the day of the final trial to have new judgments because they weren't forecasts in the last ten years. Tui has a trial, number 3, with the files that are in the bathroom, with lockers in the street, so the total energy efficiency, and which celebrates views passing the witnesses or the lawyers and the lawyers, for example, through the feminine underwear or the scandals that are in the market of the walk. Pontevedra's been tried by the city and officials in the prosecutor's office on a low heat-stricken deck. Vigo has a building with rubber floor. Sarria couldn't even have small works. Walls don't know anything about their building. The road has a building where it rains in the security room, where the electronics are, and the front door. In Cambados there were rats in the archives. There are no dungeons in Vilagarcia de Arousa, but they really didn't need anything in the last ten years. I'm afraid from last Sunday you'll have to wait even further, much further, for the final trial, because you don't rule in any of these villages and then you'll have to keep waiting, except on the Road. The road case we don't understand very well, your mayor must be dumb or he shouldn't have a lot of voice, because he's been ruling for years, and he's going to continue ruling for the next four years, but they don't get his judges together either. [[Applause]] Maybe the relationship with Together is not too good. And then he's alive. In Viveiro we don't understand why you don't formalize that free assignment, which was agreed at the Council in 2015 to enable a space for victims of violence. We don't understand it because it comes out of them for free. So we don't understand very well why they don't want it. Above all, when Mr. Rueda touched us in the last full that Tui's judicial building had taken because Zapatero's Social Security - which is that terrible evil - would not give them the old Tui health center. He had to get Mariano Rajoy and make that assignment. Because if it was done in Tui when Mariano Rajoy ruled and you, of course, all of the same political party, we don't understand why in Viveiro, where they won't rule for the last four years that we have left, you don't accept the assignment of that space, these municipal buildings, for victims of violence. Of course, perhaps it is because Pedro Sánchez is very bad, Zapatero was very bad, and Mariano was very good, and, indeed, he understood that the social function of justice had to go above all, as Mr. Rueda said the other day — I mentioned it several times — with that epic phrase of what may be again spokesperson of the Senate if Mr. Married and Mr. Feijóo understand themselves in this rifrage which they have last, Mr. Cosidó, with that epic phrase of: "We shall control the Chamber 2a of the Supreme Court from behind." The Judicial Infrastructure Plan, although it contains us, is not executed, it has not yet been fulfilled, so today we bring this non-law proposition and we ask them to do it first. We don't ask you to buy it now. It had to be finished in 2015, we're in 2019 and we still ask them to meet in 2020. You have one more year, five years after you said you were going to do it, because the plan is 2010 and we're in 2019. We gave them ten years for their fulfillment. But we don't believe anything that they tell us, whether or not, because at the previous plenary session the vice president said it had already been fulfilled, that it was already fulfilled, but on April 17, in Commission 1st, you made an amendment to a non-legislative proposal asking it to be complied with. So we don't understand very well that, if it wasn't accomplished on April 17, a month later it seems that if it was done. We don't understand it. It's too tight. So much so that the plan itself says that before the arrival of Mr Feijóo to the Government there were infrastructures which represented the largest investment in quantitative terms in the area of justice. That's what the plan does. But the other day, before Mr. Rodríguez intervened in Commission 1st, there was a PPdeG twit saying, "The Feijó board has invested more in judicial infrastructure than all the previous joints." That is, when you have to make a decision, one day they say one thing and the next day — the next month in particular — they say the opposite. The plan is incomplete, 30% left unexecuted. We've been waiting for it to end for nine years. And of course, when you give these people that one day if it's done, another day it's not done; one day we ask it to be fulfilled and the other day we say that it's already fulfilled, they're given what happened to them on April 28 and what happened to them this Sunday, March 26. So much as the one that made us the other day Mr. Rueda, of sixty-four infrastructures minus five, equal to sixty-six, that Newton wouldn't be able to make those bills and those plots that you make, make the results be those that were in these elections. And less bad than for the Galician Union the role of justice is an essential function, undoubtedly none - said Mr. Rueda the other day. Indeed, that contains those eleven jurymen in Pontevedra just a month ago had to go to dinner at a snack shop escorted by the National Police because no one in the General Directorate of Justice cared about the attended, although it's their responsibility, when it comes to organizing a popular jury. Too bad you're worried about the social function of justice! In our motion there are five points, it's very simple. We call for this plan to be fulfilled before the current legislation is complete; all the actions that are on the said plan, the new construction or reform performances are carried out -- especially we speak of these five places where there is no new type of trial, new infrastructure -- and also that end in Tui, Pontevedra and Vigo. By the way, you in your amendment also delete the reference to Tui, Pontevedra and Vigo, it's very curious! Thirdly, that all rehabilitation actions are also carried out and that you talk to the unions and to the law enforcement. Fourthly, let's get a space for those victims of Viveiro gender violence, which we don't know if they care a lot about you because they're not even able to accept a free space handed down by the council, and they report annually on the fulfilment of this plan, because the information that comes to us is quite poor and very little transparent.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u120	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u121	Nothing else. We hope you will accept our motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u122	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u123	Mr President, in the BNG Group we are beginning to be concerned because there are members of the People's Party who are already breaking up group discipline, they are already taking off their jacket, the danger is that they will change it. They should then take action on this issue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u124	It's my joke.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u125	There's enough of your mouth out of your tongue. As long as they don't come with guns... but what are you talking about here, what are you talking about here, while they don't come with guns? What are you talking about here? It's always the same. That's good! Since it's already a few hours late, let's get to the point. [[Interruptions.]] Let's leave it here. [[Murmurs.]] Judicial Infrastructure Plan 2010-2015. They really had to get confused by year because it should be 2010-2025. There was an error, because just as we're going in the execution forecasts, with the delays and the non-compliance in the execution, it really seems to be more of a plan by 2025. Here are the cases of Cambados, Vilagarcia, Road, Walls and Sarria, who are waiting for these new judicial buildings. The Union, often in these cases, makes excuses for the lack of cooperation of the corresponding municipalities. We've heard this excuse in the case of Pontevedra for many years, because they didn't want to make the new trial, and we had to see how the general director of Justice came here, setting as an example, precisely, the collaboration of the Pontevedra Council in this matter. And as we're talking about Pontevedra, Mr. Fernández Prado is not here, but I want to make a recommendation that you also transfer it to the advisor: if you really want to set free bus for those under 19 years of age, in Pontevedra or wherever you want, what you have to do is measure it already because you have the transport concessions, therefore, there is no excuse not to take that measure. And then there are bloody cases like the General of Vigo, the general disaster, because it turns out there will be an increase of 10 million euros in this work and there will be a delay of at least six months, maybe more, when already in 2016 Mr. Feijóo said that the building had serious structural deficiencies and there are also technical reports that recommended demolition. It turns out there are problems of asbestos, that we have to demolish a part of the building, and they just found out now, when the work is running. Well, that's also the responsibility of the Government of the Union and the People's Party, not to blame the other administrations. We are in a debate about the Judicial Infrastructure Plan, but those trees should not hide us from the forest of the grave problems that justice has and the need for an emergency plan to combat the chaos and collapse of the Administration of Justice. This has to do with the situation of buildings, but also with working spaces, to prevent them from being occupied as an archive, for example, when they have to be comfortable and workable spaces, with equipment, with human resources and materials, with the creation of new judges, with the modernization of the Administration of Justice and also with the decentralization and with the approach to society, to avoid that absolutely disastrous image, which has the Administration of Justice and the mistrust there is, because we are talking about a slow, bureaucratic administration, centralized etc. So the BNG will support this proposal. We also tabled a series of amendments to complement this proposal with measures, for example, to improve the situation of the workplace, also to focus attention on the need to create new judges, especially those of the Social, because it is really shocking the situation in Galicia in this matter, with delays of up to three years in the processing of files that are vital to people's lives. Also the need to create specialized judges of violence against women in all cities; the creation of spaces worthy of victims in all trials, which is still a matter pending in many of them, especially as it relates to the situations of women victims of violence of macho. And also that technological modernization is used to bring justice to citizenship and to promote the normalization of our language. BNG, regardless of whether or not our amendments are accepted, will vote in favour, and we think this is a great opportunity to conduct a debate on the steps that must be taken to actually achieve a 21st century justice administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u126	Thank you, Mr Bará. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Bará, here the only ones who have changed their jacket were those of their groups, who have gone from 18 to 6 Members. I think there's a wardrobe full of jackets in Amio, some of them didn't change them, they left them missing. [[Applause]] Mrs Vilan, we repeated the same debate a few days ago in Commission 1a. We tabled an amendment, and in that same committee we proposed a transaction. They liked the transaction so much that today, in their motion, one of the points is our transaction. By the way, I reject it in Commission 1st, but today I put it like this, mixed with things we've already told you not to, and we explain with serious and strict arguments why we said no. Today put it this way to see if you can tell us we're going to vote against the same one we proposed. No, look, we have coherence. The People's Party, if anything characterizes us, is coherence. We have already explained to you how the Judicial Infrastructure Plan has been fulfilled since 2009: more than 100 million euros have been invested in judicial infrastructure in Galicia. Of course, you don't like us to say that these investments in the Judicial Infrastructure Plan come after an absolute paralysis in the area of judicial infrastructure with the Bipartisan Government, of which, by the way, he was responsible for Justice, an adviser to the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. When we talk about legal infrastructure and budget in justice, for which this past year there is an budget of EUR 158.3 million and it has invested more than ever, I can remind you that in the Bipartite you invested 5 million euros, Mrs Vilán, in four years. Why don't you come and tell us what we're not doing here? It's true that there are delays, because we're talking about legal infrastructure, and in many cases the land needs to be handed over by the municipalities. You set here the example of Vigo, Pontevedra or Tui. Man, I don't think they're the luckiest, Mrs. Vilan! If we were to wait for the mayor of Vigo to give us a land for the City of Justice, we would still be waiting for that City of Justice today. Because year after year came to this Parliament, in the budget of the Galician Board, an budgetary departure for the City of Justice of Vigo which year after year we had to postpone because the Vigo Town Hall didn't give that parcel, and today, that we are adapting a hospital to a judicial building, with which it involves complications -- you know that this is not easy, it's not the same as doing a building again -- you come here saying there are delays. Yes, there are delays, I recognize those delays, but that doesn't mean there was no political will. There was no political will for those who tried torpedo it. Because, for example, in Pontevedra Town Hall, where there were also delays, but for other reasons, the Mayor of the Nationalist Block of Galicia made the land available. Then those lands had a problem because they were Adif's, and expropriations took longer than expected, but it wasn't the fault of the Galician Union or the People's Party either. We don't talk about Tui anymore. And of course, you're here to tell us about Walls, that Walls is the paradigm of disaster in the management of justice, Mrs. Vilán... I don't know if you know what the periployment of the Walls judicial building was. Well, look, I was running a mayor of the Socialist Party and ruling the Bipartite at that time. What happened? Well, look, they made a plot available that according to the Municipal Management General Plan could not be built. But do you know that it cost us the Greeks that lack of management and that issue of the judicial building of Walls? It cost us 60,000 euros. There's no judicial building on Walls because it doesn't fit in the plot, because you've done the adjudication to a company with a project that didn't fit in the plot and could not be built by the general plan, but you're now giving us lessons on how the legal infrastructure is managed and how judicial buildings are done. You reviewed me in five minutes, and now less than a few seconds, the judicial infrastructure of the Wall Town Hall and the management that the Bipartite and the Mayor of the Socialist Party did. Look, we tabled an amendment -- of course we didn't get Pontevedra, Vigo and Tui because they're about to finish by what I explained to you in Commission 1a, and I'm not going to repeat it now -- With regard to gender violence, we have agreed here, both in motions for resolutions in the State of Autonomy debate and in many initiatives which we unanimously approve of by all groups, that the amendments to which the victim and the aggressor did not match in the judicial buildings would be done according to the possibilities of the judicial buildings and the reforms that have been made. Even the vice president of the Union in his presence here, when you called him in, announced an investment of more than 200,000 euros to continue doing those reforms and those minor works in judicial buildings to avoid, precisely, the victim's contact with his aggressor. We present an amendment that I think they can perfectly assume, and we are even willing to make a transaction with the three points of our amendment and to include, once again, that agreement that we have, unanimously, the provision of separate spaces for women victims of gender-based violence in those buildings that do not have them, to the extent that their structure is the possibility. Of course, we cannot share what Mr Bará says, the first point in his amendment, because it is part of the competence of the Joint Committee. The Galician Union is not competent to provide new judges with gender-based violence. You see the case before us with the Justice of the Social of Lugo; despite the fact that it was a proposal from the Joint Committee, the Board and the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, the socialist minister said that the Social Judge in Lugo did not. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Unfortunately, the starting point, both for the People's Party and for the other day in committee, was the recognition that the plan is not being implemented. Mrs. Vilan had previously been asked what had to happen for the plan to be fulfilled. For the solution is easy and we have it in Tui: a motion of censure. That they know well those who were dealing with mayors in the previous legislation and pretended to go back to what they couldn't get through the way forward. There was a pact between Convergence 21 and the People's Party according to which, if the motion of censure flourished, the reform plan of the judges that had been planned in Tui would be implemented for almost nine years by that plan. That, therefore, is the form of the People's Party's government; an absolutely sectarian form, where we must be ruling to have the right, as a citizen or citizen, to the ordinary functioning of the Administration of Justice. They refuse to include now Tui's theme because they say it's going to end this year, but I have my doubts, because if it took time to put it on the motion of censure, now that Tui's citizenship has censored them, it's likely that those works will fall back into paralysis, not to say in the forgetfulness. We have to remember that we are faced with a plan that was 2010-2015, with which to be still the year 2019 rowing out in an amendment that things will be finished and that things will not, of course it is a taming of hair in political terms and it also reveals what are the priorities of the Union. Of course, no justice, that's why Parliament has to come to portray everyone. There are essential places that are not met, but essential places are all. On one side, the cities. That the largest city in Galicia is still in this situation is absolutely regrettable, and surely it is no coincidence that once again the sectarianism with which the People's Party acts leads them to leave those places where it does not rule. In addition, there is also a prejudgment for the set of middle villages, denying once again the improvement of quality in a service in periurban surroundings or in some case in rural surroundings, making it more difficult for equity to provide essential services to the population living in rural areas with respect to the population living in urban areas. It could be argued here that there are not enough resources, that the Government does what it can and all this, but the most surprising thing, as has already been stated in the previous plenary, is that not all the resources available for the works are being executed. Because if you say, everything has been done but it's not enough, but on average, as the Socialist Mrs pointed out at the time, 38% of the budget forecasts have not been implemented in the last four years. Therefore, what we are talking about is that there is a lack of political will to give the necessary impetus for 100 percent of the planned investments to be carried out. This also reveals the interest of the People's Party in justice, although in the case of the People's Valedora we already know what the case is. On the other hand, these days only get bad news, a new condemnation of the Gürtel case. In this case that dimension of the piece of the Aena case, which once again reveals, on occasion of the privatization of public services, cases of corruption. In any case, and by handing out the last budget execution by 2018, of 26 million planned, 6 not executed; that is, 25% of the budget planned for this year, already settled, not executed. Then the problem won't be the enhancement, the problem won't... what's the problem not to run? There's money, the plan's in progress, so what's the difficulty? Well, the lack of political will. They also announced in the commission, and then in the previous appearance, a plan to renew equipment and furniture. Well, as soon as the renewal that the judicial reform comes, to see where the equipment is going, because that's another matter they haven't solved. Finally, with a matter that seems particularly worrisome to us, which is the subject of the Viveiro judges; an issue that, from the budgetary point of view, has no great significance, however, has great importance, so that not always the most expensive is the most important. We're talking about the lack of capacity in a waiting room for victims of gender-based violence, and the last occurrence of the Councillor and Vice-President of the Galician Union was saying that, as a larger reform had been done, no such rehabilitation had been done, despite the fact that since 2015 facilities have been available. It seems surprising that having already committed a great rehabilitation, or being running this work, the situation of the waiting room for the victims of gender-based violence is not anticipated, and we wonder if it will not be random, or a tendency that is consolidated, that since the People's Party practices political promiscuity with Vox the victims of gender-based violence are too often forgotten. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u130	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Author group of the motion, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u131	Thank you, President. First of all, we want to thank both the En Marea Group and the BNG Group for their support, and I will talk only about the amendments, because the sooner we finish, the sooner we eat. With regard to the amendment of BNG, it has four points. We accept it without any problem, we believe that, indeed, an emergency plan for justice is essential. Now we're talking about legal infrastructure, so point two, which is the provision of separate spaces for women victims of gender-based violence in all judges, looks good on us, and also develops the necessary measures to prevent the accumulation and storage of documentation in the workplaces. We like them, too. The first point and the last point we believe that they do not have too much to do with the legal infrastructures — let alone none — and that if they are the subject of other initiatives that, by the way, we have taken hundreds of them to Commission 1st and some have also brought it to this plenary session. With regard to the amendment to replace the People's Group, Mrs Prado, the initiative of the 1st Commission was not hers, it was the Socialist Parliamentary Group. So the transaction, in any case, was from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. It must be a little clear. [[Applause]] Maybe, of course, so many missed elections make you don't know where you are anymore. [[Applause]] Right now the initiative is also of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, so you don't seem to talk much about amending other parliamentary groups, because that's not your role. In any case, what you will have to talk about the initiatives will be the voice of this parliamentary group and not you. [[Murmurs.]] It's very good to talk about coherence when in Commission 1st, on April 17, you asked in your amendment to comply with the Judicial Infrastructure Plan, and right now — a month later — you no longer ask your amendment to comply with the Judicial Infrastructure Plan. Long live coherence! It's hard to understand. You're welcome to Pontevedra, Vigo and Tui. It's obvious when they're already under construction. Pontevedra didn't have a problem with expropriations, Mrs. Prado, no. The problem was the coincidence between the Catastro and the Register of Property; that was the problem. By the way, you criticized the mayor of Pontevedra a billion times because he didn't do anything about the land. Now they're close friends, and now they've made it easier. Same as the mayor of Vigo. They were at their disposal next to the judges, for years, land. They criticized him again and again and again. It's not true there were no plots. [[Applause]] That's not true! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And "of Tui, we better not talk" -- you said. Well, indeed, we don't speak, because the citizens of Tui have already spoken, and they have given the Socialist Party the absolute majority because of that motion of shame that you made in your day. We better not talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u133	After the debate on motions was closed, we proceeded to the vote. I'll read. This time I'm a little short. We voted, firstly, that of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego on the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas Berganginos. I was pending a transaction, I don't know if you have it. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Please read it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u134	No transaction. At the request of the groups, we shall vote separately on point 1; points 2, 3 and 4; and, finally, points 5 and 6. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u135	Thank you. We begin by voting on point 1 of this motion. Voting of point 1 of the G.P. motion of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantiños, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government and the actions to be carried out in relation to the needs of improving rail transport in Galicia, in particular between Ourense, La Coruña and Santiago de Compostela. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 16; against, 39; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. This point is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u136	We now vote points 2, 3 and 4. Vote of points 2, 3 and 4 of the G.P. motion of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantiños, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government and the actions to be carried out in relation to the needs of improving rail transport in Galicia, in particular between Ourense, La Coruña and Santiago de Compostela. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 68. The voting is positive. These points were therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u137	Now let's vote points 5 and 6. Voting of points 5 and 6 of the G.P. motion of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantiños, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government and the actions to be carried out in relation to the needs of improving rail transport in Galicia, in particular between Ourense, La Coruña and Santiago de Compostela. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 29; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, these two points are rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u138	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Mrs Maria Ángeles Cuña Bóveda, who accepts the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Voting of the transactional text of the motion of the G.P of En Marea, at the initiative of Da María Angeles Cuña Bóveda and Da Luca Chao Pérez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the protection and conservation of cultural, architectural and archaeological heritage. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 29; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u139	Finally, we voted for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Ms. Patricia Vilán Lorenzo. He has already explained the points he accepted from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, and does not accept the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group. Vote of the motion's transactioned text, G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with the Plan of Judicial Infrastructure 2010-2015. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 29; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u140	We suspended the session until 4:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u141	Good afternoon. We resume the session with item 2 on the agenda, which is that of appearances. Mr Advocate of the Rural Environment, on his own request, to report on the Plan for the Prevention and Defence of Forest Fires in Galicia - Pladiga -
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u142	Mr. José González Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the service you attend today to this full, good afternoon. Good for everyone and everyone here. I'm here today for a number of reasons. The first of them, as the President said, introduced the 2019 Pladiga. Forest fires affect Galicia in environmental, economic and social terms, and at Pladiga we have an organisational structure of people and means to fight against the fire. As set out in Article 14.2 of Law 3/2007 of 9 April, this plan was approved by the Council of Meeting on Thursday, 2 May. To achieve the targets, some of them very ambitious, collected this year 2019, we need a complete planning, which goes from the protocol to act when it comes to the extinction of a fire, to the next steps in the case of accidents at work. In the 2019 Pladiga, more than seven thousand people will be involved in the operation, accounting for those of the Union itself, the Administration of State and the Town Councils, supported by a thirty hundred air vehicles and 360 motorcycles. The collaboration with the municipalities in the prevention and defense of villages is reinforced; it is apostatized to boost the use of controlled fires for biomass management; and it promotes citizen cooperation against fire activity through an anonymous complaint phone number, a 900 phone number that I'm going to announce right now. The phone to report fire activity anonymously is 900 815 085. Nine hundred minus 815 is 085, a mnemotechnic rule, considering that 085 is also the phone to warn about fires. In addition, the training of staff is intensified in areas such as safety, first aid, direction and coordination of large fires, research or driving of service vehicles. On the other hand, there is also a improvement in fixed surveillance, with the incorporation of thirty new last-generation cameras that are added to the eighty-eight already installed in the forest surveillance network, so we will have this year a total of one hundred and eighteen, and with them it will cover 200,000 hectares more of Greek territory, we will reach almost 2/3 of the surface of our community. And it has more news, such as using drones to improve surveillance or pilot project to have early alerts, at strategic points in the territory, that collect reliable weather observations. Ladies and gentlemen, fire prevention and extinction is one of the most serious problems in this community. In Galicia, every time, we suffer the devastating results that the fire strikes us; a fire on many occasions caused by incendiaries, criminals, criminals. The Pladiga exists precisely to combat this, it is a plan designed annually to defend us from the fires, a plan that each course adapts to the changes in our country. Some of the changes this 2019, which I just made, are worth listening to, understanding and applauding. But in addition to the Pladiga today, we're going to talk about what really concerns citizens, which is what the Galician Union is doing in the prevention and extinction of forest fires. I remind you that the first meeting I myself applied for as advisor was in February this year. I remember I've come here to value the rural I want so much. It was then that they called me, from the bench of En Marea, Balbino; Balbino, the protagonist in Memories of a peasant boy. I'm gonna let the winds run away and forget what I was told with some irony. I was born and raised in the countryside, in Ribeiro, and I love Galicia, because Galicia is practically all rural. Neira Vilas, the author of the above-mentioned work, was an authentic artist, a genius of literature as many other writers as we have in our history. So many others who put into focus two essential factors: Galicia and rural. And today I'm going to talk about another writer who was also pretending on those elements. Look, the Fire Prevention and Extinction Service receives a lot of night calls throughout the year. Many fires, especially those provoked, appear when the night falls. Many of those present up there know that you get that pocket at the door at night, the pocket at the door of duty, the pocket at the door of fire. That night shift brigade that gets a call to have to be at 4:00 in the morning helping a village not to burn. We all have to work to reduce those night pockets to a minimum and that the fires that exist, because there will always be fires when the appropriate weather conditions are given, be as bad as possible. Thus, when they knock on the door at night it will be unique and exclusively a book, a wonderful work by Xabier Docampo, a Greek author who loves rurals who left us too recently. He will always be with us The mystery of the storms and will resound in the ears of our children and our grandchildren with the same passion that they still echo in our hearts today. I remember when I read -- many years ago -- the mystery of the bluffs. For those of you who don't know him, it's about children in the countryside of a village called Eiranova, who throughout the novel try to find out why thirteen strikes sound at 12 p.m. Why does one sound too much? Who's behind that mystery? The protagonists of this story by Xabier Docampo share, ladies and gentlemen, with me three elements. The first is non-conformity. They don't assume reality by the fact that it is, but they try to find reasons and change it. When I arrived as a Member of this institution, I was very inconformity, and today I am even more sleepy. I don't want to assume what I see around when we can get better and go in favor of common sense, instead of going against it. The second element we share is naivety. These boys were small, and, as young and young as they are, they beat the whole novel of naïves. I'm not so young anymore, I'm starting to comb even, but I'm still being naive. I think things can be improved and changed from politics. I think what's not right can stop hurting. I believe in people and in the feeling of overcoming. And the third and last element we agreed on is passion. The boys feel a passion for their village, for their shared friendship, and for the land they're from. I feel a passion for my land and I don't want that land to keep burning. I don't want Galicia burning, I don't want Galicia burning. I, and all of us here, have -- I'm sure, ladies and gentlemen -- that desire, I have no doubt about it, but we must seek consensus on how to do it, we owe it to the Greeks and the Greeks we represent. Look, the firewaves of the years 2006 and 2017 taught us that it's no use to get between us and make politics with the fires. It doesn't solve anything and citizens don't understand it. The teaching that we have to get out of such dramatic episodes is that we have to work to implement solutions that are effective in time and attack the underlying problem that causes the fires. In both cases, 2006 and 2017, there was a parliamentary commission, no doubt because it was thought that Parliament was the right place for the reflection and search of these consensuss as necessary in matters such as forest fires and the future of our mountain. If we analyze the two commissions, so different as to the ruling parties and the profile of the rapporteurs of them, we see a common line, gentlemen, which is the sincere search for measures that would once end the cracking of the fires. The main consequence of the 2006 commission was the adoption of the Galician Fire Prevention and Extinction Act, Law 3/2007, which, among other things, created the Pladiga that we bring here today or the biomass cleaning strips, and then I'll talk about them; issues that are not discussed today, although the party that governs is a different one that promulgated the law. The October 2017 fire strike also prompted a parliamentary commission. I lived that commission as a member of it and was one of the rapporteurs of his dictatorship. It was months of intense work, I'm sure the same work that happened to those who participated in the year 2006. I also lived one of the things that I like the least about politics, that on partisan issues the conclusions of the committee were not adopted unanimously. By saying this I am not looking here for debate or confrontation, I would rather look to the future, but rather point out that all of us who were part of the commission knew at that time and we know that we agreed in practice all of the conclusions, that we all shared that they were necessary and good in order to be able to tackle the problem of fires at the root and that they were, very ambitious proposals and that it would cost us a lot to draw them forward. And despite this, we were unable to approve them unanimously, although there was a consensus between the People's Party and the Socialist Party of Galicia. I would especially like to thank Xoaquín Fernández Leiceaga and Jose Antonio Quiroga for their efforts and courage to reach agreements that allowed us to move forward with the support of the three fourths of the Galician Parliament. But, ladies and gentlemen, is there any positive results in solving the problem that citizens are concerned about? If we take note of the 2006 Commission and the 2018 Commission, we see that there are a high number of coincidences as to the conclusions and recommendations that are set out in both of them. Wouldn't it be better to accept that for the fight against fires there are no magic formulas that come determined by the political color of who governs? Wouldn't it be better to agree on the solutions and, from then on, let each party do their job? That is, what governs them and those of the opposition control that the collection is complied with in the recommendations. The ruling of the 2018 commission proposes solutions that attack the structural causes of forest fires in Galicia. It involves the need for a living, dynamic and profitable rural environment, where they will have to live with ordered and planned mountains with agribusiness that produce sustainably quality agri-food products. In analysing the recommendations, it must be based on the fact that within the committee an analysis of the structural causes of forest fires was carried out as a problem affecting the German countryside as a whole. And starting from the base that the mountain burns because the arsonists burn it, the saying highlights two fundamental issues that contribute, ladies and gentlemen, to which the consequences of the fires in Galicia are aggravated. The first is the structure of the Welsh property, characterized by a high minifundism and fragmentation of the property, as well as a high degree of ignorance of the rural owners. The difficulty of accessing the property or the use of it, the mobilization, ultimately, is one of the obstacles to the existence of that living and dynamic rural that we all want. And also -- and I say here -- the lack of comprehensive and prior management of the Greek territory and the use of the soil in that territory, which, coupled with the lack of planning and management in the forest area, causes an important part of the Galician territory to find itself in a state of abandonment, giving rise to fuel for the fires. The solution of these issues goes beyond prevention, and it is undoubtedly the key to vault that will allow that revitalization of the rural Galician who I am sure is the wish of all members of this House. But this is matter of another appearance. In the specific area that today is the subject of appearance, of prevention and of extinction, it is obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that the existence of an orderly mountain with controlled biomass, in which sustainable forest management is made, because an orderly mountain helps prevent fires, an orderly mountain helps to avoid one of the worst evils that afflict our community. To that end, and in order to comply with the recommendations of the dictatorship, we unfolded the former General Directorate of Mountains in two: the General Directorate of Forest Planning and ordination and the General Directorate of Mountain Defence. Deployment is allowing much more intensive work to be done in planning and management of our mountain, with progress, among others, in such matters as the following: the development of the district forest management plans, which will begin in the course of this year 2019; the review and search for a greater consensus on the Galician Forest Plan, which we will bring to this parliament before the end of 2019, fulfilling our commitment to this; and the launching of the Galician forest inventory, which is so required by the sector. But these occupations are now outside the scope of the new Monte Defence Directorate; a general direction designed to devote all its resources, human and budgetary, to these two pillars: prevention and extinction, always taking into account prevention as a key to focusing on and anticipating the problem to reduce future damage. The Monte Defence Directorate has the primary responsibility for combating forest fires, and it integrates the best fire prevention and extinction service in Spain and one of the best in Europe. I don't say so, that I'm your last in charge, tell you the objective data on how it works on the Pladiga. Almost 3,000 men and women from here I want to transfer my gratitude and that of all the Greek society, because they are the defenders of our mountains and our people in the face of forest fires. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] To these men and women I moved before this appearance the challenges we faced in the specific scope of the fight against fires, and for this purpose I met all the members of the service who wanted to listen to me, and there were many, in a series of meetings I had with them in the four provinces, and I say here too, let's count on them, there's no other solution to meet these challenges. I have to say that at those meetings I was made very interesting proposals. But we also have - we all know - a group of experts who was born from the committee, appointed by all parliamentary groups, who are discussing the issues that come to the service, and tell me that they are moving forward in proposals for consensus as regards their task. Ladies and gentlemen, the challenges we face, which I'm going to take for the kid, are the following. First of all, the development of a new law on the prevention and extinction of fires in Galicia, looking for planning and strategy in prevention. Secondly, the protection of our villages against fires. Third, the advance towards a public service, unique, professional and versatile. Fourthly, citizenship and zero tolerance with incendiaries. Starting with the first of the challenges, the development of a new law for the prevention and extinction of fires in Galicia, I say that Law 3/2007 was a law that marked a path that was soon followed by the Mountain Law of 2012 and that we now have to complete. No doubt, we have to go to a higher strategy and planning in prevention, but without a head we can't do strategy, so we've created within the Mountain General Directorate the Mountain Defence Sub-Direction and the Prevention Sub-Direction. Strategic prevention must have targets that will be marked by those you know, not by me, though I dare suggest some of them. You have to integrate forest fire prevention into land management, as one of the fundamental criteria for addressing that management. Take advantage of natural or artificial accidents to enhance firewalls against forest fires. We have to get the fires coming from Portugal not to pass the Mine, for example, by placing plantations of vineyards, cereals or leafy on the Spanish bank of the river. We have to determine in which parts of the territory we must increase the size of the strips of protection to ensure their effectiveness, for example, certain points on the highways or highways in Greece where these strips will have to be expanded. We also need to analyze the past behavior of fires in areas of maximum incidence, in order to anticipate their future development. We have to quadrill the territory of Greece to make it clear where we have to wait for them to stop them. And properly structure Galician fire prevention and extinction service, as well as its presence on the territory. And I say these goals of strategic prevention must be determined by what they know, so at my meetings with the members of the service I announced to them the creation of working groups so that all those who want to be able to participate in the drafting of the law. All your contributions — I repeat, all your contributions — will be taken into account in this common goal that we have as Greeks to put an end to the logging of forest fires. I also asked the group of experts designated by parliamentary groups to participate in the drafting of the law. The second big challenge we have to face is the protection of our villages from forest fires. One of the teachings of the 2006 and 2017 fire strikes was the need to strengthen the defense of our villages against forest fires. The problem of fires in the urban-forest interface is especially accused and worrying in Galicia, where we have, let's not forget, half of the population nuclei across Spain: more than 33,000 nuclei. Let us remember — we all know — that the vigorous legislation determines that the owners must have cleaning of weeds, eucalyptuses, pine trees or acacias, which are not leafy, the 50-metre strip around the villages, and this obligation must be carried out voluntarily before the end of May 31, if not, it is up to the municipalities to control the fulfilment of this obligation, as well as the subsidiary execution in their case. The necessary effort for prevention requires the union of all — I repeat, the union of all — landowners, and the coordination of all administrations as well: councils, deputies and the council itself, the Union. But this is especially important when it comes to protecting our villages from forest fires. The Galician Union is very committed to this collaboration between administrations, and this collaboration is drawn up in the agreement signed between the Union, Seaga and Fegamp, which turns us into pioneers in Europe to put in place a public biomass management system that will facilitate owners and municipalities to fulfil their legal obligations. This agreement has an investment by the council of nothing less than 28 million euros of own funds in four years, and we currently have nearly 200 municipalities. I want to ask the mayors to adhere, those who are missing, so that their neighbours are more protected from the fires. This first year we will act in 34 municipalities, in 68 parishes, and nearly 700 villages, in which in exchange for a price fixed of EUR 350 per hectare, or if you want EUR 35 per thousand meters of farm, the means of the Union will proceed to clean the farms of the fringes whatever their cost, and without any additional payment for the owner. The selection of villages where the public system is to be implemented has been given priority to those with the most incendiary problem, which are the most in need of protection. This first year, we're going to act at 4,500 acres, and we intend in the course of the four years to reach 16,000. But in addition to these 34, all of the municipalities joined by us are given greater administrative support, in order to facilitate the fulfilment of their obligations in cleaning the fringes around the villages. And this greater administrative support comes in a series of tools of some importance, which I'm going to point out: First of all, we have been carrying out since June, at the convention, the development of a municipal basic plan for the prevention and defence of forest fires, which will be adapted to the characteristics of each of the municipalities attached. These days, ladies and gentlemen, we have already delivered the 34 first basic plans. We also have a public access viewer in which every municipality can consult the farms that are on the strips of protection of its villages. At this point, we already have the viewer for 92 city halls of the members. We're also going to do, or we're going to do, the elaboration of a basic procedure manual to be followed for the cleaning of the safety strips around the villages. We have prepared and given the municipalities the models of notification to the owners, so that this is done uniformly throughout Galicia, and finally, but no less important, we have created a computer program that will facilitate the municipalities to process the procedure for cleaning the strips. Besides, ladies and gentlemen, counsellors are aware of the difficulty in keeping the protection strips clean of 33,000 nuclei of population, and also that peeling every year means a very big cost, so I agree that it bets that the fringes are kept clean with the implantation in them of agricultural activity. To this end, we dedicate a part of the agreement to promoting this agricultural activity in the fringes and we will promote pastoral projects, planting of fruits, orchards or even cereal in the fringes, which we call in the model village convention. It's important that we all be clear that these villages can be located in any of the municipalities that adhere to the convention. Then if we have all the municipalities of Galicia attached, we can spread these model villages all over the territory. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that our proposal is an ambitious proposal, but we are also convinced that with this impulse we are opening a path that can enable us to secure our villages from forest fires in a sustainable way in time. The third of the great challenges we all have to face is working towards a public service, unique, versatile and as professional as possible. The configuration of our service is one of the great challenges we have to solve. First of all, I would like to remind you that we have an expert group designated by all parliamentary groups that have to issue their report on this subject before the maximum risk period of this year 2019. But we have made progress in the following areas, where there were meeting points. First of all, in integration into a public and single service, with the non-contracting of Seaga's order and the creation in the RPT of 548 new workplaces of the service. Secondly, the increase in the minimum working time of those who fight the fires in the service, which was -- I remind them -- from three months to 2017, which was four months in 2018, five months in 2019, this year, and we will finally spend in 2020 to six months fulfilling our commitment. I mean, in three years, we doubled the minimum working time in Galicia's prevention and extinction service. And finally, the reinforcement of your training with a training plan tailored to your needs and which will start by this year 2019. Besides, as I moved them to the members of the service, we have to work and move forward in their versatility and professionalism. Versatility that allows us not only to be the best in extinction, but to work much more in prevention. And professionalism, which requires the demanding of your work and which leads to consideration of the experience and qualification of the members of the service, moving forward in the pursuit of a professional career within the service. And finally, but no less important, we have to reconcile all this with the presence in the territory, seeking the necessary coordination with the municipal brigades, which also - I repeat - must advance in their professionalization. In this challenge, I also committed to the members of the service their participation in the development of a multi-year plan for material and personnel needs of the Galician Prevention and Extinction Service to address existing deficiencies. The fourth of the challenges, which we spoke about before, is citizen awareness and zero tolerance with the incendiaries. This last challenge concerns the need to increase social awareness against incendiary behaviors. We must among all, everyone, end these criminals who endanger our landscape, our mountain, our villages and even the lives of our citizens. And within this challenge we already work in the following areas. First of all, the reinforcement of research by our agents, increasing the technological means that we make available to them, as well as the personnel assigned to these tasks. And support for citizen collaboration, with a confidential and free phone call where citizens can denounce any supposedly incendiary behavior. I remember again: 900 815 085. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen, with reflection and also with a proposal. The reflection is that the elections were already Sunday, the campaign is over, the results we already know, and the letters will be on the table for quite a while, no other elections will be gathered for at least several months. That is why I ask you, please, to leave electoral interests aside, to leave partisan interests aside this afternoon and to talk to you all. I look directly at my colleagues in the Popular Group, I also look at the comrades in the Socialist Group, I look at those of the Nationalist Block Group and those of En Marea, and I tell everyone that we have to agree. And I'm going to make a proposal that, if we do it, we can defend ourselves and fight the fires with all the force of the whole of the Greek people that we represent here, from the first to the last Member. I want us to move forward towards an autonomous pact, a pact of the Galician community, a pact of all parliamentary groups, so that we can carry out a joint strategy, a joint work in the fight against forest fires, against that tearing up our country every year, against the criminals who burn Galicia. Let us face, ladies and gentlemen, all together, Government, parliamentary groups, experts and members of the service, the challenges that I mentioned earlier, and have sufficient scope to fulfil the mandate given to us by the citizens who voted for us: to agree on their problems. Galicia, our mountain and our rural well deserve the effort. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u144	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. Counsellor, I really appreciate you mentioning quality literature and literature, but I can tell you that either of the two authors you mentioned, my good friends in life and after death in memory, did not share with you the idea of the rural you have. No acres, really, no acres. [[Applause]] Look, now that you've talked about model villages, with fruit trees planted in the safety strips, like the deer, I remembered Pachín, that dog who died at Lelo -- I think I remember one of the letters you write -- buried under a vase, where the hounds came out of the dog, said the boy who felt it. Look, arsonists, criminals, criminals, a terrible vehemence, the fires, the most pressing problem in the countryside, a terrible vehemence. And how about ordering and biodiversity, what? You and I know that this is the mother of the year, that's the serious problem of this country, the land management at once! You also talked about the common line of fire committees. Look, in us, in the BNG, they're common because we're both involved, because we're debating both and because we're contributing both. You alone contributed and discussed the last one, the last one. That brings the collation that you took nine years to put up the batteries, until they fell into the government and then they had to think about it, and now they're taking those measures out of the ditam, which I think are very good. We, of course, consent to a lot of them, but the trunk, the main trunk, continues to be that word: sorting, and if we increase another one, integral of this country, that's the magic word. Anyway, I thought I'd come here to talk about the Pladiga and practically talk about forest policy and, above all, about the council's organizational chart. Okay, well, there's a tremendous expectation. Up here, in the rostrum, we have a lot of people who come to hear something, something concrete, because it's all in the air, and then I'll shake this story a little bit. The basic point is the integral recovery of rural, there is no other exit, there is no other exit. Agrarian surface useful in increase, not in increasing decrease as it is happening now. Agrarian development policy, but seriously. Why? Because this country cannot play the letter only to the monoculture of eucalyptus and milk and meat. And I keep repeating it, and we'll keep repeating it. You have to play the card to a serious agricultural development, a rural population implantation, a management of the rural population, an industrialization of rural products. You owe Portugal? Yes, and between mountain communities. Of course, and between monospecific masses of more than 25 hectares with eucalyptus and pine, of course! Do you think that the word of fire will bring it back to you today? One more year, the most exuberant plague of data, full of means of extinction, I know!, a triumphal plagiarism as it corresponds to a council and a mountain sector that is dramatically diminishing the incidence of fires, or is it not so and once again we have to descend into reality? For us, the sector's participation in the development is highlighted. These pre-working meetings of the Forest Council to discuss the most important aspects of it, which have never existed. I don't want to lie because it's ugly in an older person, but the preceptive meeting to cover the file, held last April, was an amazing democratic abnormality. They didn't send prior documentation, and at the meeting of this forest council -- and I have it in small letters for the importance that you give it -- it's prevented opening a deadline for the presentation of approaches to the Pladiga. The general director, the incombustible and all-powerful Tomás Fernández Couto, justified this barbarity by asserting in a round and authoritarian manner: "The Pladiga is approved by the Council of the Union and the point." They're textual words. We know that the Forest Council is a consultative one, but the advisory council has just consulted it. The logical thing is to keep working meetings prior to the preparation of a new Pladiga, analyzing the errors and shortcomings of the past season and evaluating the new measures, which there are, in this case, the fulfillment of the fringes; their effectiveness in this short period of time; forest prevention, management measures, I know! On the contrary, bid us farewell with an order and command and give the process by end. Democratic practice in essence, frank or totalitarian, which has been the same, because several associations present in the council have very serious and well-founded demands, let's see. They asked for a more active participation and consultation, as if a car had been sung! And see the cars don't sing anymore, not even in the song. They repeatedly refuse this request and are given late documentation concerning this point for the holding of forest councils, and to display a button. At the last meeting, no documentation was sent or the possibility - as I said - was opened to do no nearing. It is therefore perverting the functioning of the Galician Forest Council as a consultative body, and in no way can this body be heard in the field of forest fires, not sir, but they were present but did not speak. Shouldn't Pladiga be a document of strategies and means of prevention and extinction? The best extinction is a good prevention, and a good prevention would be the coordination and design of it by forest districts, at meetings of these mountain communities, of the municipalities, to plan prevention work in their territories. Where are they? Did you celebrate any of them? Did you celebrate? This document contemplates the establishment of strips of protection in the form of mountain areas in pastoral areas, forest masses of caducifolia, slowing down, something that prevented the occurrence in Dodro and Rianxo a couple of months ago, which were nine hundred and quite acres of continuous mass of pyrophites that burned, and burned until they reached the sea. The fire has reached the sea and there's no burning for now. Believe me, Counselor, if you don't have these kinds of actions planned, once again the Pladiga will be a weak document in its utility would be, and a duplicate of another duplicate, another duplicate, which is only useful to justify that apparent interest in stopping the fire and defending the mountain and the wealth of this country. Within the prevention lines, there's one for the formation of teams for mountain communities, so they can really make forestry. Forestry, that subject pending in our forest; it's more, I wouldn't say pendant, would say nonexistent. Well, once again, and within those prevention lines, mountain communities and communities can't do forestry work with their own staff, when there are communities that have that qualified staff and suitable machinery. Does the Council not think about generating local employment, social employment, and you only care about forest companies? By the way, Mr. Counsellor, are secondary strips of protection only for slaughterhouses and pyrophyte forest species or for any vegetable that occupies them, be fruit trees, willows or oaks? because if you are cutting the shaft, right! Do you also enter the highways, highways and roads in general, including the narrow-track railway, because you travel like me and you see, you have to see what you see! With regard to the management bands of Law 3/2007, the prevention and defense of Galician forest fires, numerous changes have been made to the legislation since its entry into force. We have observed different interpretations, involving serious errors, with the consequences of prejudices to citizenship. Circulars and bands of municipalities that apply, distances and obligations that nothing has to do with the approval of the board. Interpretations other than regulations according to each district, there are differences between them in the four provinces. Forest administration staff giving talks to neighbors' associations, mountain communities, forest owners, etc., interpreting the legislate according to their understanding. And this is, in many cases, affecting the tree heritage, with cuts of trees -- as I've already told you -- that there is no need or obligation to carry out. They cut themselves to the willows, we have to leave the strip clean. It's not like that. Why in agreed mountains don't they put themselves in the beautiful strips of deciduouss that prevent the fire from traveling from neighboring mountain to neighbor? Is the common sense so difficult? Is it so hard to make serious prevention? Because we continue with the same music with regard to aids, so they go out in January but their processing is so slow that when they are solved and they can start the work has already passed the high-risk period, and possibly the fire has done the prevention work. You don't listen. He didn't say anything about incorporating Seaga people into the prevention and extinction service. At the meeting held on May 9, both you and the manager of Seaga made sure that 80% of the workers and workers were going to be on board. I don't mean that you lie, but neither did the comrades who passed me, and it wasn't one or two, nor did they say what you're saying now with your head. He assured us that the people who wrote this year don't come in, that it's left for the 2020 call, that it won't open an extraordinary deadline, so we don't get the accounts that come back to June 80% of Seaga's workers, because there were people who wrote this year. Is this one coming in or isn't going in? When is the decree coming out? What are the squares? What would the workers have to do with the Union? If the decree is changed, then the call for forest firefighter opposition will be modified so that Seaga workers will score in the opposition contest, yes or no? What's it gonna be like? Only the last and present workers or any worker who had been part of Seaga years ago?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u146	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u147	What day will they start? Of course! because you don't make it clear to us that if you admit that the problem is in management, discontinuity, mosaic, rationality, biodiversity, what do we talk about? What are we talking about? We'll follow after.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u148	Thank you. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Pérez Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u149	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group, as always when we talk about forest fires, we want to highlight and praise the involvement, dedication and commitment of all workers who are part of the forest fire fighting device, and that today some of the members accompany us from the rostrum. They're them, and they're the pride of our territory, the first to get to the fires and the last to go. [[Applause]] His work is irreplaceable. We've seen it recently in our community with the fire in the first quarter of the Dodro and Rianxo area, where more than 1,000 hectares were burned, and the workers and workers of the extinguishing device demonstrated, once again, their value in the work of extinguishing the fire and protecting the neighborhood and the territory, so our first words are of recognition and gratitude. As you know, after the wave of fires in Galicia in the autumn of 2017, a study committee was set up in this Parliament where information was received from a broad representation of the sector. We have experts and professionals who have given us their vision from very different areas, but always related to how the Galician Union's forest policy should be revised, which looked like an outdated and failed model. Here I would like to highlight the effort made by all parliamentary groups, as well as by the experts, with their approach to the Forest Fire Commission. After these presentations were completed, a statement was drawn up that our group voted in favour, with the aim of changing forest policy, with different recommendations. We have the conviction that the measures set out in his final dictatorship will serve as the basis for the fires of Galicia to become witnesses in the coming years. That's right, whenever there's political will and if they really put themselves more and better means at the service of professionals. The change cannot only be in a form, it must be a fundamental change, which optimizes the available, economic, human and media resources, in order to be able to carry out the necessary maintenance work and avoid having to get to the cases of extinction of fires, where unfortunately we have a lot of experience accumulated. We all agree that it's much better to prevent than to heal, and that's where we have to work and be conscious. A committee of experts has also been set up, which is about to finish and adopt its recommendations unanimously to try to know, from a more academic point of view, the situation of our mountain, as well as the measures to improve it. The season of fires itself known has already begun, and the Pladiga that comes to us the counsellor is already in practice. However, the recommendations that come out of this committee that I was talking about before and that can be implemented without additional costs should be put into effect as soon as possible by the Galician Union, since all help is little to fight against this scourge that we are living each year with greater or less intensity. Besides, as everyone else knows, fires don't currently understand weather, they're unpredictable, both in their temporal appearance and in their geographic extension. There are places that are more likely than others, but unfortunately there is no region that is free from its devastating effects. We all remember the fires of October 2017 for its unusual era and its virulence, intensity and destructive capacity. However, it was neither the first nor — or I am very wrong — will be the last. For some time now, experts have been warning us of these types of fires, aggressive and unseasonated, so, despite the climate conditions against which there was in 2017, we should not be amazed at the strange times in which they occurred. That's why it seems more relevant to plan for the present and future firefighting devices with great caution, information and listening to professionals, experts and industry agents; besides accompanying with money their proper functioning and operation. Because, let's be honest and don't cheat on the lonely, just changing the way we don't solve this structural problem, we also need to change the background: land management, orderly mountain creation, productive mountains, etc. It's a structural change of our mountain. On the other hand, if we look at the evolution of both the underlying credit and the executions of the budget under the Galician Union Programme 551B on the prevention of forest fires, we see that on this side there have not been the necessary changes in order to be able to decisively push over the current model. Changes in form were and are necessary, but background and monetary changes are indispensable in order to achieve the fixed targets. It seems that in the end the changes remained more on a role than in reality, because without budget that accompanies the changes and improvements in fire prevention services, little will be possible. It's true that in recent years there has been progress in budgets and the trend is positive, but it's not enough, and we're still away from the budget in the years of the Bipartite. In both 2018 and 2019, despite progress in relation to the worst years of the crisis, the 2008 budget was not met. In 2019, Program 551B has a budget of just over one and a half million euros; however, we do not see the changes promised after the disastrous fires that occurred two years ago, and there was only an increase of less than 1% compared to 2018. And in this, in turn, an increase of just over 2% in relation to 2017, the year of the fire strike; a rise that we consider to be scarce when we are talking about a very serious problem that every year is raging with our mountains, meadows and arboreal masses. It does not seem that with an increase of less than 1% and almost 3% in two years, all new measures that are expected to be used in 2019, such as the use of drones for surveillance or the increase of people involved in fire prevention and extinction operations, among others. The challenges are many, but we fear that the economic resources mobilized by the Galician Union will not be enough to achieve them. May we be wrong and have to correct our words! Here we all agree that an extinction should begin with prevention work, which would certainly avoid many of the fires that occur in Galicia. We are aware of the efforts of the Councils in the fight against fires and the cooperation agreement to which local authorities — as you well said, Counsellor, before — can be joined. However, we go back to it: lack of resources and means to cover all our vast territory in an effective and efficient way. We have a structural problem, a very serious problem, because even if it wasn't particularly devastating last year, and if the objectives proposed at the Pladiga were met, that doesn't mean we've already solved everything. After the 2017 fires, especially aggressive in the Vigo area and in various areas of Ourense, motivated by climate change and the mountain model that was being imposed in Galicia, we saw that there was an opportunity to change, modify and advance in our model of prevention and defense against forest fires. The People's Party model was an outdated and failed model. After the Commission was set up and then told me, we saw an opportunity to change the system, to improve it. [[Applause]] However, despite the changes made to the new Pladiga — and I am sorry to repeat again — this was not accompanied by economic support so that these changes could take place beyond one document. We need a cross-cutting policy that reaches all the sectors involved and enables us to overcome the wrong policy of the last few years of the Galician Union. We have great challenges, and among them, the most outstanding and difficult to control is climate change. This affects and will significantly affect the large fires that occur in our territory, with dry temperatures, less rain and less water resources, among others. For all this, when we talk about what has to be a transversal policy, we talk about it having to be cut from all sectors; a policy that focuses on prevention and is enriched with contributions from all sectors involved to try to end this scourge. The importance of structural changes in fire prevention must be the way forward, and the socialists are convinced of this. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u150	Thank you, Mr. Pérez Seco. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u151	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome. Good afternoon. Good afternoon to the comrades and the companions who accompany us today, too, on the benches. And I also wanted to give a strong greeting to the technical staff of the board, the Council of the Rural Environment, who is now demonstrating himself outside Parliament because they are not properly cared for. I would also like to thank the counsellor for his presence... Don't laugh. [[Laughter]] I'm saying don't laugh, it's no joke. They're really out there. I appreciate Mr. Counselor's appearance. [[Murmurs.]] When we named Balbino that time, it wasn't with the blond, nor towards Master Neira Vilas or much less towards you. We made a similarity between his account and how the book begins; nothing further. Today the councillor came to talk about the Pladiga. From En Marea we're going to change the speech; personally I won't talk about cutting and hitting, at least in its entirety. There's something new and we also see in his presence a lot of will, to see if he's able to carry it forward. It's true that there are some things from the Pladiga, and it's also true that we've missed some things. The approval of the Pladiga? It's too late! It's been approved a month ago. We thought the Pladiga should be approved by December of the previous year. The Pladiga had to be approved for six months now because Pladiga sets out guidelines for the extinction of fires but also prevention, and prevention has to be done in winter. We can't approve a Pladiga now to start doing those firewalls and those strips of protection -- you said they were going to be done by now -- because we're in June. Depends on how this year comes, you know it doesn't take time. The elaboration of it? Well, man, I think that --but the comrade Rivas said it before -- you made the air jump any kind of dialogue or participation in it. We have the criticisms of members of the Forest Council, both of Friends of the Earth and of the Galego Labrego Union, and of Frouma, who accused of the totalitarian drift of this organ, of the board's consultative body, in drawing up. They recorded a letter asking the Rural Council to reformulate the functioning of the Galician Forest Council as regards the active participation of social and sectoral agents, something that you, in addition, have just talked a lot about. He wants the people, the staff we work in the service, to participate in those plans. If you ask for that participation, give it to the Galician Labour Union, give it to the Friends of the Earth, give it to Frouma. They also accuse the Rural Councillor in the same way, regardless of the counsellor or adviser who directs it, of always refusing to respond to this request, on a regular basis. In fact, for the celebration of the last Forest Council, held on 26 April, no prior documentation of the Pladiga was sent to the members of the Council; and even no possibility of bringing it near was not even opened. The Director General of Defence -- as Mr. Rivas said before -- I find it pathetic for a director general to be able to harass a meeting by saying, "The Pladika is adopted by the Board of Trustees, and point." I think I should give you, at least, a little tinkling of ears. A study commission cannot overshadow that fire prevention table within the Forest Council, just as it had undertaken to constitute its own previous advisor. There is chaos in the application of the new regulation on the creation of tracks to prevent fires in the nuclei of population. We see the report on the networks day after day, they cut down autochthonous trees on the cliff. And even different districts and technical staff interpret the rule in different ways, it's unclear. The new forest policy has to stop being so much forest policy and be more a hilly policy. You were talking about party issues in the approval of the dictatorship. No, there are no partisan issues, what we have is different points of view when we understand our mountain. Because here you didn't talk about the forest plan either, and that was also within the dictates. Of course! A forest plan that increases by 8% the area of eucalyptus, in Marea it won't approve, what do you want us to tell him? And like that, a lot of things. We have been denied the reports we have requested from En Marea in that Fire Commission; among them, the data of the execution of the Pladiga, which we are talking about today. From En Marea we asked for the execution data of the Pladiga from the previous years and they didn't send us -- something to be suspicious of. Opacity on information. We saw how in the Bipartite, which was so criticized, they called themselves all the fires, they had the surface they had, they were public on the page of the Conseilería do Medio Rural. Now, only those with more than 20 acres. In fact, on the other day, the president kicked when he said that on March 26 of this year they had to intervene in more than 39 fires, because on the website of the Rural Council only two or three published. That's, at least, hiding the data. About the technical staff of the council. On 3 May, the four trade union organizations submit to the General Technical Secretariat of the Rural Council a request to open the negotiating bureau for the updating of working conditions agreements for the technical staff of the Rural Council. The painting of this personal date of 1999, are anachronistics, when neither the Galician Fire Law nor the Galician Mountain Law existed. By the way, today he informed us that another law was possibly drafted when the law of the year 2007 was not executed, they didn't execute it at all, they didn't listen to him. After a year the official opening relationship of the bargaining bureau of these staff shows an absolute lack of respect for the public service that the forest technicians are exercising there protesting and that they have just convened a claim for May 16th, to which we will be attending. Three-month staff at the Public Fire Service. We always say it, five months. This year they're going to be five, I'm sorry. It is essential and necessary to strengthen the device in order to meet and carry out the tasks which the law itself of the national civil protection system requires. We formally ask this group to amend the current employment relationship of the board in the sense that the duration of these staff contracts will be nine months. Town Hall brigades are doing the same job as the fellows in the service and they charge much less. A lot of them don't have training, they're working more hours than we do in the public service, sometimes carrying on errands in August. After eight hours in a row, march to a fire four hours, it's not good for the mountain or for them. And here we also see another further failure by President Feijóo, when he appointed these magic formulas to put an end to the fires. I made sure that 100 percent of the municipalities would have brigades. Today, in today's Pladiga that has introduced us today, it's not collected; they don't have a hundred percent brigades. Seaga's staff. At the beginning of May, they had a meeting with you, they had a meeting with the manager, and you informed us that the public forest fire defence service would count on staff who had the most experience, which meant that they were going to cut off that time worked in Seaga, and it gave deadlines. He also told them they were going to work early in July. Then, if you can, clear it up, because people have their own lives as well. He also told them that staff who didn't enter the squares of the Union were going to make prevention in Seaga. He said the decree was in the Advisory. The decree was passed last Thursday, if I'm not mistaken. The decree I think is waiting to be published in the Official Journal of Galicia. There's a couple of things we have to do there. At the meeting, the manager said that the time worked would be cut short. Of course, what about the people who worked two, three or four campaigns in Seaga but didn't work last year? Will that data cross us, tell them when you log in? How will you do the advice to cross that data? And another question is that the staff who stay in Seaga will clear up as soon as they come to work and as long as they can. I have here the 2019 Pladiga map document. It has a completely identical index to the year 2018, it doesn't change anything. Inside a parish of high incendiary activity has been modified. Then there's a media relationship here, for example, the map of airbases. We have to be glad that there are fewer alternative helicopter bases and that there will be more fixed helicopter bases. We've been claiming here for three years that passed with the base of the boat helicopter, one of the most incendiary districts and that so far it wasn't operational, as it is with Portomarín; this year they're going to be operational. But here too, we mark bases of light cargo planes on the ground. Beariz, Bande and (...). Are they going to be operating this year at 100 percent of the board? Because they were marked last year, too, and they were closed. And I think you're in a serious mistake if this happens. We're also glad that there are more cargo water points for these ships, there are 38 more points; what happens is that some of those who have marked here -- and I mean mostly my county -- are not operational, they're not working. So it's good that I take note and ask you to check them, because the day you need water will be empty. Water points that are not suitable for helicopters, we see that they have, curiously, decreased the ground cargo points, those of the motorcycles. One thing is what you come to tell us here, and I tell you we see goodwill, but one thing is will and another is what happens afterwards. Is counseling today better prepared than in 2017 in case of a fire strike? Let's hope so, let's hope so. The changes have not yet been made. And then, to finish off, coincidentally with Comrade Rivas, I think Neira Vilas, if she rises today... well, Neira Vilas in life has already been angry to see the damage you've done to our rurals. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u152	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr. Blanco Paradelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u153	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Counselor, we want to thank you for your presence. I would also like to point out that on other occasions for the Pladiga he appeared in commission and this year he wanted you to come to the House plenary and give the appropriate explanations, which is also to highlight. Thank you, too, for the tone of all groups, but, Counsellor, you already find that you cannot name the authors you like without asking for permission especially to some group. You did it simply through literature and other groups, as always, try to use it politically. I think it's another mistake for some of the politicians to take advantage of the German authors who belong to us all. Mr. Rivas said it shouldn't be Pladiga's strategy and planning document. I literally took note of him so he wouldn't get angry. We're clear that we are. If you see the document, precisely the 2019 Pladiga, for the prevention and defense against forest fires, it has as its main objective to protect people, goods and forest wealth from the fires. Moreover, it must be remembered that the vast part of the mountains, around 98%, is in the hands of private owners, so defending this resource implies protecting the heritage of all the Greeks. To achieve this goal, a number of actions and measures are established that cover everything related to the prevention, detection, deterrence, extinction and investigation of fires. Before continuing, I would also, of course, warmly greet all those who today see us from the guest gallery and take advantage to congratulate the whole extinguishing device, as well as all those people and groups who intervene in the extinction of each fire, because they do a great job, they have and show a great commitment, because, despite adverse weather conditions, about 67% of the fires of last year have been in contact; i.e., they did not exceed the acre of surface. So we want to thank you for your work. [[Applause]] Counselor, I've been grateful for some statements, especially by knowing you, like you made these channels of dialogue jump in the air. I think they are free statements, because, man!, an adviser who, in the application that is doing the dictates of the commission, of the 123 measures, has gathered nothing more to the councillors of the political groups, who created working groups to improve the service, who created the expert groups, also following the indications of the dictatorship itself, who is making meetings throughout all the provinces with workers and members of the service, how can it be said that you dynamite the channels of dialogue? They say you approve this Pladiga without taking into account the opinion, and you have come to say here - Mr Rivas said - "democratic abnormality" and also "totalitarian franky attitude", I understand. Like not!, you always have to leave Franco to shine. And you know why they accuse him of that? Because you have complied with Law 3/2007, which has approved the two-party Government as the Nationalist Counsellor of the Rural Environment. And look, you're accused of totalitarianism and frankness by complying with the law that approved the Bipartite and which made, in this case, improve. And why? Because, in Article 14.2 of Law 3/2007, it says, "The elaboration of the Pladiga corresponds to the competent forest councillor". That's what BNG said. And he says, "The adoption of this plan corresponds to the board of directors, the proposal of the council, I hear the Galician Forest Council," which is what you did. And in order to enforce the law of the Bipartite, they call you franchisee, totalitarian, and they talk about democratic abnormality. This is the law of the embudsman who practice, in this case, the nationalist group and the En Marea group. I would like to say that among the main contents of the Pladiga - I want to highlight it, it seems very important - it has four plans: prevention plan; detection plan, deterrence, research and corrective measures; extinction plan; and training plan. There was a certain contradiction, because some people said it was practically a copy and it hits and others said it wasn't this year. I think it's appropriate to read it before, and not come with the speech of the previous year or the previous year. I want to highlight the main news you have this year. For example, the use of new innovation technologies through drones, both for surveillance and for support of extinction; the launch of a specific, free phone, of anonymous complaints, as you said, 900 815 085; the increase of the fixed surveillance network, with thirty new last-generation cameras, with a total of about one hundred and twenty. It is also reduced — as a positive fact — the parishes of high incendiary activity, which this year remain in seventy-one. And also the reinforcement and collaboration with the municipalities. Here too I want to stop because you see that you don't value that you've signed with the Federation of Municipalities and with Seaga a pioneer agreement that I think at least you had to fill us with pride and trust, which is 28 million euros. He said the PSOE spokesman that there are no resources. Home!, I think 28 million euros are important, and I hope you can actually execute, because we know that 33,000 nuclei of population that Galicia has, its dispersion and orography make it quite complicated. That agreement, among other things, is clearly to perform tasks of managing vegetable biomass with high fuel potential, especially on forest land around the core. I also want to highlight the facilities that Junta is going to put on for the municipalities, as you said. Development of municipal forest fire prevention and defence plans, which practically has no council, and we are all aware of the difficulties faced by local governments in their elaboration. That's why the council, also following a non-legislative proposal that we approved by the People's Group, has committed itself to the elaboration of these plans for 100 percent of all the municipalities that adhered to that agreement, with the appropriate administrative and computer tools. You've talked about developing a comprehensive technology platform and of course also that novice public access viewer where it is displayed and kept up to date the network of secondary strips for biomass management. Another of the news that also appears on the Pladiga, which has also been sued, but you see that today they haven't wanted to talk about it either, is the empowerment of the use of controlled burns for biomass management by developing a protocol for its execution. It seems remarkable to us too, it was a demand, that new training plan. They also didn't want to talk about the training plan, which we believe is essential and which strengthens and enhances the professionalization of staff, of all staff, including what other administrations are doing, which will receive general and specific training according to their professional category. This new plan includes fifteen different courses, focusing on aspects such as security, first aid, direction and coordination of major fires, research or driving of all-earth vehicles and motorcycles, among others. Another novelty you also said, within the framework of the regulations, is the new forest fire prevention and defense law, counting on the arrivals of the service's own staff, as you're doing with those working groups. The material media, you've already said that they're going to be more than 7,000 people, bringing together those who work on the board, the state administration, the municipalities, in addition to a thirty-six hundred air vehicles and sixty motorcycles. It must be borne in mind that this Pladiga is active all year round. Moreover, on this occasion, the time of deployment of staff reinforcement has been extended, a demand that has also been made and that, as you see, they are not worth it; this year it is five months and next year it will be six months. In the organizational plan, I would also like to highlight another important novelty, which was the separation of these two general directions in his counseling, which, of course, what he's going to do is to improve work and efficiency. Let's talk again about the budgets. We're talking about 110.7 million euros, slightly higher than 2018 and also slightly higher than 2017, so they're increasing; by the way, some budgets that you voted against. I also want to say that if these budgets were added to those intended for promotion, forest recovery and fire prevention and defence, including personnel, direct investment, aid and agreements, we would be talking about more than one hundred and eighty million in total. I think it's very important that all the Greeks know how much resources they have to use to clean up and extinguish the fires. It's very important, really, that it stays on the table that there's a perfectly structured planning, that there's never zero error, of course not, that we're never going to get zero fires, but that there's one planning and that there's also the active device at all times, reinforcing especially in the summer months. And I will finish, Counselor, on this first turn, saying that you, moreover, made a great offer. You have spoken of inviting the groups, inviting the House, reaching a great pact of country, a great agreement of country to fight all together against this scourge of fires which, unfortunately, acquit Galicia. Look, I'm going to say, no group has alluded to that proposal, I don't know if they'll do it in the second intervention, I'd like them to say yes, whether they want it or not, they're right, they say it. I believe that the Socialist Party, by its tone, may join and I hope that it will join that agreement. Look, I think, Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, that you have made a sincere offer. Of course, you can count on us, you can count on the Popular Group, because we prefer to work to be part of the solutions rather than the problems. I believe that, too, and finally, the groups have enough questions to confront, but this solution to this question of what we are talking about today requires height of look, long lights, commitment and loyalty and love for Galicia. So, count on the Popular Group. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u154	Thank you, Mr. Blanco Paradello. Replica, Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u155	Good afternoon again. I wanted to begin my reply by moving, firstly, that I very much appreciate, as it could not be otherwise, the response of the Popular Parliamentary Group. And I also tell you, Mr. Blanco Paradelo, that it is natural that you may have to reflect, and I say that we will reflect, because I will again talk about the need for a pact from all parliamentary groups to leave the partisan struggle of forest fires. And I alluded here -- rather than talk about the Pladiga, which too, and I could be sure that I've been talking all afternoon -- I alluded to some challenges that we all have to worry about. And these challenges I don't come to bring you here today, in front of the parliamentarians, without first putting them in front of the people of the Service. I had the opportunity to expose them and, of course, I can tell them that the contributions they made to me and the references that moved me in relation to those challenges, of course, were not that I was talking about things that they had nothing to do with and that they didn't care about people in the Service. Mr. Rivas, I bring some things here. I have to tell you that, if we talk about the Pladiga, I challenge you with one of the challenges. First, I recognize that Law 3/2007 has set a good path, because much of that Law 3/2007 continues to apply today in the fight against fires. The fringes are out of Law 3/2007. But what we're saying is that this road that started — which was then touched by the law of 2012, of the mountains, and that is also being touched by the law of accompaniment... was first said by some comrades who play on the accompanying laws, now needs to be done every year... yes...... so I would end up saying that, having you reason that you touch every year, we need to collect all this into a new law, a law of prevention and extinction of fires in Galicia which, moreover, questions the things we have to improve. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's been twelve years, and we have to go see if there's anything we need to improve, people up there know. I talked about planned and strategic prevention. You, if you like, give him another name, Mr. Rivas. When you talk to me about mosaic plantation, I could give you recommendation #22 of the ditam, which says exactly the same, and speaks of biodiversity, why didn't you vote in favour of that recommendation? I'm asking you again to support all that dictates and to pull it out between us all together. You tell me we have to sort out the territory, sort out the territory. Look, we have recommendations 62 to 70 of the Commission's 2018 dictum that speak of the following: the first one that says recommendation 62 is that we have to do a prior management of the territory of Galicia and the uses of the soil, distributing forest, land use and livestock. The second point in recommendation 65 is that we have to make a catalogue of high agricultural productivity soils. I announced it -- and, as I'm a man who likes to fulfill my commitments, I'm doing it -- in my February appearance: there's going to be that catalogue; that's more, that catalog is going to be collected in a rule of law. So don't talk to me about sorting. But it's more: in this very audience you will remember that I just said there are two fundamental problems that make the consequences of forest fires more serious in Galicia than elsewhere. And I said, one of them, minifundism, fragmentation and ignorance of property, which doesn't allow us to mobilize the land. The recommendations also speak of the mobilisation of the earth, the recommendations also say that the land, the useful agrarian surface, must be recovered. And we're also working, together with the Popular Parliamentary Group, on a rule of law that will collect these recommendations, by the way, also supported by the Socialist Party. So we're on that line without a doubt. I was saying, two basic problems. One is minifundism and the other... I said, but I said it clearly, I said it here as a parliamentarian five minutes ago, if you want to read it again, now I don't have it here, but I said that the lack of management of the land uses and the lack of a planned and orderly mountain, what comes from the existence of a lot of abandonment in rural Galicia that is fuel for fires. Man, if we all agree, Mr. Rivas! If I'm telling you... If you want to change your words... I don't speak as much as Neira Vilas or Xabier Docampo, they're more, by my trajectory too... I speak more, let's say, directly, I don't know, but we're saying the same thing. He changed his name, we're saying the same thing. I wonder if you're upset that we think that way too? It's not just the block's heritage to think of rural things like that. [[Applause]] We, Mr. Rivas, as we believe what we say we're going to do and we're doing it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I see you a little nervous, Mrs. Rodil. I've been counseling for eight months, and I'm saying — but I'm going to argue very easily — that the problem is a very complex problem. Galicia, and if you want to talk about this all afternoon, you have a property structure that I don't know if you visit a lot but I do -- and more since I'm a counselor, I've been doing a few miles in the countryside -- I know the problem, we've been diagnosed, it's collected in the recommendations and now what we're doing is proposals. We were asked by the Commission to talk about land management. I repeat again: we have the recommendations, we are applying them to legislative instruments, which is how things have to be done. You'll see the catalogue of high productivity forest land in Galicia, you'll see in this legislation. Now, you'll understand — and I'm sure I would like the public administration to be faster — that things have to be legislated, written and then brought them out and have their procedure. I was talking, Mr. Rivas, after the ordination, I was talking that you didn't want to see eucalyptus, milk and meat monoculture. And I say: — Forest: 80,000 families receiving 300 million euros each year. - Gentlemen... by the way, ladies and gentlemen, I visited few farms before I was a counselor, and now that I've visited a few, I have to say that I'm tremendously proud of the yellow milkgrower sector. This macro-exploitation, this maltreatment... we are a reference to animal welfare, safety and food health. I'm very proud of the sector: 7,000 farms that are Welsh families that bill 2,800,000 tons every year of milk. - And the flesh... man! He won't want to see meat either, but it's because we charge 122 million euros in meat. He was talking to me, and Mr. Rodríguez was also talking to me about the Forest Council. Home!, it's a bit late, because all the members of the Forest Council — even those who sent me that letter — already have a proposal to reform the functioning of the Forest Council through the working groups. He's doing it for a college professor so that you can do it. It seems to me as well that the Forest Council doesn't work properly, because we get there with the things that have been practically finished, and I think we have to do some pre-work and bring to the Forest Council what's previously debated. But as I think about it, I'm already doing it. You can call the members of the Forest Council and ask them. By the way, the Forest Council which, since I've been a counselor, I've called twice, and the second time I've called it, precisely, to comply with the commitment to bring it to the Forest Council, before taking it to the Board of the Board of Trustees, the Pladiga. But, I repeat, we will, of course, work on that structure of participation, as will we also do with the members of the Service in the creation of the new law of prevention and extinction of Galicia. We were also talking about Mr. Rivas also saying that there are different interpretations. Of course, that's why we ask the council to adhere to the agreement, which, among other things, carries models and information that allows us to give a uniform work in those fringes to all the municipalities of Galicia. There's still a few without joining us, there's a hundred missing. We need all the municipalities to better protect our villages. They talked about numerous amendments to Law 3/2007. And I'm telling them, even the Pladiga, maybe you should question it, I'm not saying it won't be done. But if we understand that Pladiga is not a suitable instrument, as many of you say in your criticisms, because we will change it, we will collect another instrument that is better in the new law than we do in prevention and extinction. You can collaborate on that, too. As far as Seaga is concerned, I want to be very clear, because here there are people from the Service too, there are people from Seaga, and I want to leave clearly what I moved to him, who also collected me well, because they moved me... and I heard some of the audio. I said that I want in the service of extinguishing fires from Galicia people as professional as possible, and therefore we bartered experience in extinction. If there are people who have experience in extinction, they must be barred. You, who certainly read the decree, know that in the decree, the municipal brigades and the people who worked in Seaga are barred. We don't get into any kind of ideological or kind of pain here; people who have experience, as we want a professional service, have to come in and have to be barred. I also told you that until the decree was passed, you couldn't get into the barbarian. That decree is being dealt with, as I committed myself to them. Mr. Rodríguez said earlier that he had been approved in the last council and that he was going to be published in the DOG. From the fact that the decree is published, that experience will indeed be barred. There's no question about it, Mr. Rodríguez, what there are some employees of a company, and it turns out that this company — please correct me if I'm wrong — is public. So the public company has to ban its workers, just like the city council secretaries have to cut the working time in the city councils. It's not that there's a barrage of office. It's just that I told you that because Seaga is dependent on the Galician board, we say we're the employer, the employer would make it easier for Seaga's members. And the last thing I said was that I was also hoping that the call could be made after the decree was passed, but that it didn't depend on me, it depended on climate conditions and that there wasn't a behavior of incendiary criminals who put in danger and that we had to make the call in advance. So we're taking the steps that we commit to. I ask you here a little bit of respect for the work we're doing because we're going on the line that we told you we were going to go. As far as the technicians are concerned, and I also tell the people at the Service, I meet with everyone, they know, because I've been together with the unions more than once, and with the technicians as well. There was a request for a meeting on January 17th and we looked after it through the technical secretary general on February 28th. But it's just that at my service meetings I've already told you that I would meet with them again when necessary, we met and we talked about the opening of the negotiating table, which certainly have reason to open up. We don't have any drawbacks about it. In connection with the Forest Council, I want to kill you: we saw a committee in which you were too; they know that a lot of fire has been said; we have a group of experts in Parliament; we will have to give you a vote of confidence, too; we cannot open forty working groups. And I repeat, we're going to open those working groups for the future. But at this point I've already told the people of the Forest Council that I thought he was talking enough about it. To pick up some of the more things, I'd also like to talk about the opacity that Mr. Rodríguez moved me. Mr. Rodríguez, I understand that at times we brought a lot of documents here, but when I answered, a month or a half ago, the question of forest fires, I gave the President of Parliament the document in which all the information from the first quarter of 2019 on forest fires was collected so that it could be delivered to parliamentary groups. I know that Mr. Blanco Paradelo read it because he took it here, I don't know if you took it. We gave all the information about the 585 forest fires. And there's a reflection...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u156	They don't dialogue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u157	...that I want to move you here, Mr. Rodríguez, and we could talk about this within a pact between all of us about forest fires: what should the communication policy be about forest fires? Because don't forget there's an effect of calling too. And I'm not telling you, people at the Service, I'm not telling you, they told me and they moved me. I want to transfer that information, I brought it here to Parliament, but we should reflect among ourselves on that communication policy. If they want it now, they're going to criticize our politics and we can get into a fight. I'm not going to go into that confrontation, I say we should have that thought in the future. Mr. Pérez Seco, I have to tell you, from my position, clearly, and I am sure it is a position of the Socialist Party, my thanks. My thanks first, because you voted in favour of the recommendations because you knew they were good, others knew it, but they didn't vote. Because, moreover, they still trust those recommendations, because they know we're working on them, and because they manifest what the opposition has to do, which seems very good to me: if I don't criticize them, be careful, watch out; if they're good, let's try to get them done, let's deal with them all so that they can be done. And if they don't, they criticize us, they win the elections, and you take them out. I'm really telling you. Tell me there are no budgets. I want to remind you that I arrived on September 26, 2018, I could no longer change budgets to apply these recommendations, which are true that they are very ambitious and that they will need money. But I'm going over there, and I'm telling the service members, too, because I've already told them before. Look, when we talk about lights from the forest agents' cars — they need them — do you know how much they cost? Two hundred thousand euros. When we talk about the equipment of all the agents — who need them — you know how much it costs? Eight hundred thousand euros. If we want to change all the agents' cars — that they need, that they're very old — do you know how much it costs? Seven million euros. We changed 11 motorcycles. Do you know how much it costs? Three million euros. But, ladies, this money comes out of everybody's pockets, eh! It's not a question of the People's Party. We have to make an effort, but it's important. [[Applause]] Look, I promise — and I have already said — that we are going to make a multi-annual plan of the service's material and human resources to fill all its needs. There will be the members of the service, too, and let them tell us what they need. But what can't be is our seams are blown off at every moment. We need to have this multi-annual plan and we need to know what we are dealing with by politicians and by the Greeks for this forest fire defence work. When he tells me that there is no means, I would also tell him, within the utmost cordiality, Mr. Pérez Seco, that of the 28 million euros, who also reminded Mr. Blanco Paradelo. We made a very important bet for the defense of our villages. But I can't say it any other way, very important. I want to remind you that it is a competition of the Town Councils since Law 3/2007. It wasn't us who put it. But the competition is probably right there. And I'm probably saying why it's the closest administration to get to know those owners who have to clean up. But it's true that you have to equip it economically. So, what does Joine do? So 28 million euros of own funds. It's a decision of the Board, I could decide not to. We're doing it. And I make a call from here. Deputies also have to collaborate on this. No, no, Members also have to collaborate on this; among other things, because legislation says that the competency of extinction, in the municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants, when the municipality does not arrive, is of the deputies. [[Murmurs.]] So I make a call and say, as I say to the parliamentary groups and also to the Members, that we all have to work together here. I also want to ask you for an opinion, especially Mr. Rivas, and I say it with a smile in your mouth. Mr. Rivas, isn't it good that we try to implement these strips of agricultural activity? You're telling me everyone who knows what it's good to do, and if we unravel every year, it's a lost battle. Let's not go into it if it was someone else's idea or idea. What we are putting on the table — by the way, I remind you that it is also in the recommendations you voted against — is money to implement this agricultural activity. Wouldn't it be good if we were all here talking to our mayors to encourage the villagers to give up those farms so that we could do that activity? I've already spoken to people who dedicate themselves to the Shepherding so they can work on this line. I'm going to talk to people who want to plant a lot of fruit on these fringes. But let's see, is this bad for Galicia? So, I say, if we agree on all these things, what's the problem for us to collect that in a pact? I'm done and I'll go back to what I asked at first. I'll be very insistent on this appearance, and as long as I can. I say, in order to defend Galicia from the fires, we need the strength of each and every one of us. I propose — and I tell you that it is not for me to be answered today, but that we can make a reflection and reunite with you all when you want to talk about it — an autonomous pact, a community pact, a pact of all parliamentary groups, to have that joint strategy; so that all, Government, parliamentary groups, experts who are working on the commission and members of the service, can deal with all those challenges that I mentioned before, and we have that height of vision that the representative of the People's Parliamentary Group, whom I ask of you. Let's agree on solving our citizens' problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. González Vázquez. We are now opening a special round of clarifications. You have the floor, on behalf of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rivas Cruz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Blanco Paradelo, the phrase I uttered was questioning. I'm sorry I didn't do her well, but she was questioning. And I keep asking. If you don't follow what the Forest Council says, if you don't let it say, if you don't give it material to be able to think, why do we want it? I wouldn't like to see you in the opposition twisting arguments. I've been told what they're capable of. On the great deal, Counsellor, when Pedrogrão's, we have sent a letter from BNG to the President of the Board offering him a great deal and he has not challenged us. Now it's been a while now, eh!, quite a while. Look, for great agreement and solidarity, at the People's Party in the fires of 2006. It still hurts in our hearts what you've done. It still hurts us all, the Socialist Party and the BNG, at those hard moments of smoke and fire, and total insolidarity. [[Applause]] Of course you helped, you helped. There was one who went with a little hose to turn around and take the picture. All right! But they also torpedoed as much as they could. Yes, yes, and that of the 2006 commission let us put it aside, because it would be to set fire to what we don't need right now. You're talking about a big deal. They start, but they start showing us that big deal. And they do it right, because, look, we're used to houses starting with cementation. And the cementation of this country and the problem of the fires of this country is in the management of the territory. And the management of the territory will not be such until there is economic activity in the territory. And there will be no economic activity in the territory as long as you don't put the necessary effort into it. And the necessary commitment is to order, it's to get the Land Bank out of nothing, which now if they pull it out. Of course, but it took nine years of drought to erase everything we did in that damn bipartite. Sure, and now they get out. Will it be the novelty of you or will it be those octaves that shared in those...? Yeah, of course, you have to tell me shit! [[Murmurs.]] It's just that you have a tremendous forgetfulness! They have a tremendous capacity to forget! [[Applause]] Not us, not us! We can forget; we can forget, not. They're different things, different things. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In addition, they have fixed the recommendations, and remorse of that 2006. Look, I've already told you about it as an asset and a liability to you and your party spokesman in the commission. We haven't been insolidative in the fire commission, we can't vote what we don't believe in. And if there are several recommendations that are central and that are cornerstones of what our rural policy would be, we don't vote. Which doesn't mean we don't agree with many of the measures that appear there, it has nothing to do with it. I also tell you that it depends on how you carry them out, that one thing is enunciation, and another thing is how you do it. I'm very pleased to see you take advantage of the initiatives that we have made since BNG, of course, of fruit and agricultural activity... I don't care. Look, you take them across the country, you put on the medals, you do them, you do them. This parliamentary group and this political organization are interested in doing what they do, because that would be a sign that the country is beginning to relive after its policies, those of the People's Party, from the night before, condemned to poverty. Look, the firefighting service is the best in the world? Of course I do! But that's why you're not going to make up for what you owe them. They owe them the real recognition of their dignity. And that's done with facts. This is done by measures that put them in the place where they have to be, and in training, in material and in wages and working time, which is the mother of the year, and you know. Do it once. Counsellor, I ask you: Is the future of the extinction service designed? Are there any conclusions, therefore, from the group of experts we don't know? Did they give content to that commission? Tell us something about that. Because, look, it's been four or five months.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u160	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u161	It'll be six. We won't be against each other, because that current situation on the mountain will require us to arrive at twelve months. Because, as the mountain is, as it comes a year like this a little crossed, like the 2017 one, or as it comes a while like what happened two or three months ago, we're going to need all that. One last point, Mr. President, if I may...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u162	Hurry up, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u163	Well, so you'll have a chance after I say what I don't say. But finally, let's leave it like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u164	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Pérez Seco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u165	Thank you, President. Counselor, before I've finished my time and I'm going to tell you about the great deal you were going to make with us, which I wanted to deal with for Galicia on forest fires. As Mr. Rivas Cruz well remembered, I remind him of what happened in 2016 and the consensus he showed then, which was very different from what the Socialist Party is now showing with all the fires that happened in 2017. You know, if you want a big deal -- it's good for Galicia -- you'll have to talk about it, sit down, talk about it, and maybe we can come to a great consensus for that agreement and have a plan for Galicia against forest fires. [[Applause]] I know your willingness to speak — we know in Commission 7a — I know that you have a desire for dialogue with the whole fire system. But I think that later that dialogue has to be transformed into reality. When I was referring to the budgets, and to which more or less 1% went up in 2018, and to which, when they presented the Pladiga and said they were going to use drones, increasing people — as I told you in my first intervention — more people involved in prevention and extinction operations, those, among others, are new challenges, and budgets are the same. So we don't know how they're going to distribute or make these budgets come to fulfill the work that Pladiga promises. So you haven't talked about what in the last years of Mr. Feijóo's government — I'm glad he didn't talk — they have to justify: that the fires, along with their effects, are related to incendiary plots. I remind you that it had to be the Prosecutor's Office and the commission of study, which denied the existence of these plots. We are also concerned about the lack of self-criticism of the popular government in the matter of fires, although we know, as I said before, of the will that you have of dialogue. But better a little self-criticism, and not so much looking for the culprits, so we can find the solutions so Galicia can have as many fires as possible. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Pérez Seco. You have the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u167	Thank you again, President. They spoke, both Mr. Blanco Paradelo and Mr. Counsellor, of a country pact on many subjects we have in common. In the ruling of the Committee on Forest Fires In Marea, he presented 82 amendments, and they accepted 5. By the way, one of the accepted ones is what you now assumed to be doing the PP, the training plan. You may ask the counsellor. So he was the voice, he was the spokesperson of the People's Party Group on that commission, and he accepted this amendment from the organization In Marea, when we proposed a specific training plan, with four or five points, which, in addition, remains a month to execute, because it was before July 2019. See if in a month they're able to give the whole Service that training plan they've committed to, thanks to a measure of En Marea. We'd be glad it was. He says, of course, he's been doing a lot of miles in the countryside since he's been a counselor -- I'm sure he's from the countryside before, too -- but look, in addition, let's see his will. You're offering a whole amendment to the policies that the People's Party has made in the last ten years. What did the lady counselor do, who was before you? He didn't do anything. And with these measures you try to turn him around. The case is they let them run. In hiring troops, you said here that depends on climate conditions. Man, please! That's an insult, eh! He said here textually, "depending on climate conditions." I think it's an insult. On the subject of communication, of course, when it burns next to Vigo and they burn a thousand hectares, everyone knows; when in Viana do Bolo or in Chardrexa de Queixa they burn two thousand hectares, no one knows. So I think it's important that we know where it's burning and what it's burning. Why? Because we can save animals, we can save real property or we can even save human lives. What's wrong? That you hide that data, because that's not how you're ashamed of it. With what they save in one year in operation Centinela they buy the priority lights and the defective material of the environmental and forestry agents we have today throughout the country -- you do. Prescinct one year of operation Centinela. Agricultural activity in the protection strip. Man, you can't accuse us, Counselor, of not being entirely in agreement with that proposal. Besides, we did not approve the dictates in his final resolution, because there were things we could not pass through, as was the increase of the eucalyptus in that review of the forest plan. But in measures like happened in the protection line we were there, or weren't we there? Yes, we agree that we can't open up every year; we have to give it activity, profitability, both livestock and agriculture, but we're not against it. I've got here, I've gone over it, and I don't know if it's gonna cover up, well, I've gone over quite a bit -- what happens is that there's a lot of pages for a little while -- attachments. Exactly the same index as last year, except for the OACEL protocol, which I've been looking at and doesn't change much about the protocols we have here. The brigade numbers don't match. Please take note. 141 square codes are missing from the employment relationship, compared to the explanatory table. The twelve-nine-month public service brigades so far were or were composed of nine components and now they're going to stay in six. So this poses a serious risk, both for the safety of staff and for the loss of effectiveness on the mountain. The number of squares and brigades is reduced for the high-risk campaign, which will be five months this year 2019, but they don't transpose all that they've removed from Seaga's orders, they're not collected here. So there's going to be a minimum of thirteen less brigades in all that become four firemen, three less in the Coruña, three less in Lugo, two less in Ourense and five less in Pontevedra. Curiously it coincides that they remove less where there are more brigades in the municipalities; the more brigades there are, the more brigades they remove from the board. Already in memory — to finish — this is where many times you notice that there may not have been a rigorous study of what must be the Pladiga or the importance that we must give it. When they talk about the age of danger, there's a fixed time, which is no longer just the months of July, August and September. We still don't understand that the fires go much further, and you know that and you said so. High-risk period, where means of extinction are spread: it must be the maximums depending on the evolution of the risk. The current forecast of the Pladiga covers the months of July, August and September, plus an additional period of approximately one month. It's not enough. We saw it in the fires we had in January, in February, in March or in November last year. Media and resources. Mr. Blanco Paradello, we fully agree and applaud the introduction of new technologies. We don't get tired of repeating it. Now, all of this can't supply human resources. We can't close the surveillance tapes we have, with those so professional people in them. A drone doesn't tell us why we have to go to the fire and yet the woman or the man in that house is telling us where to go. The Mobile Watches will be re-introduced? —because in the Pladiga they have them—, mobile patrol watch with the ability to carry out a first attack. We applaud the news if it's true, let's hope so. In the Bipartite I think it was twenty-two, if I don't confuse myself, and they did a very good job. If you bring them in, welcome. Well, the theme of the Armed Forces again, you can't miss it. We also applaud that they continue to reflect that they carry it out by environmental volunteering or by putting together defences against forest fires. Nothing else. Wishing all the comrades and comrades who accompany us today will have a good summer and a good fight against the fires — we hope it will be for everyone's sake — and, the less, the better. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u168	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr. Blanco Paradelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u169	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. Counsellor, I think you may be pleased with this appearance of yours, because I believe that all groups, in their second turn of intervention, have shown a certain will or a certain desire that this great autonomic agreement, that great country agreement to fight fires, and I think that's the most positive thing we have to highlight. And, of course, as I told you, from the People's Parliamentary Group counts on us, because we want to be part of the solutions. As for the Counsellor, I think it was also good to put on value that he did self-criticism and said moreover that he did not want to get into partisan disputes, and I think that, in addition, what the Counsellor did was to talk about the past precisely to rescue the positive things of the past and that they could serve for the present and future solutions that Galicia needs. Of course, I, if I had entered that game, could remember when Minister Narbona, of the Environment, in 2006, said that she was also talking about an organized plot, that the fires of the year 2006 could be due to revenge or spite. We could remember how in 2017, when I was burning all over Galicia, because some political groups and people around the political groups were already wearing T-shirts and banners. I mean, there's a lot of things... don't you see? [[Murmurs.]] I understand that you bother them, and the counselor precisely said that he didn't come to make that kind of dispute.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u170	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u171	We therefore insist again: I think it is good that we regain that spirit of the Committee on Forest Fire Studies, in which many of the measures, by more than 80 %, were in agreement, and in which there was also another great agreement with the Socialist Group. I want to remember in this short time that I'm left that the advisor spoke of 548 new squares in the Extinction Service that were to be created and that would be included in the RPT. So, I think this too, coupled with all the agreements that are being made in collaboration with the councils and other collaborations with the other administrations, can't be held, and here it's not said that he's walking more and more towards a privatized service, and I think that mantra has to be discarded, and I'm very glad that he hasn't said again. We talked again about opacity, lack of transparency. I think it is tremendously unfair to say that, and above all another example, Mr. Rodríguez, of the En Marea group. In the fire that took place in Rianxo, you, accompanied by your spokesman, were there at the command post with the counsellor and I think they had all the facilities, had access to all sorts of information. And what did you guys do? While they were there, they recorded an inquiry and a PNL. Man, please! I mean, they also sometimes have to have a little sensitivity to things. It's just that it really makes me suspect if they care so much about information or what they want — I don't know — is to be jealous or take advantage of themselves often politically. Look, Counselor, you've talked about a lot of new issues. On his second turn, I also — I noted — a multi-year plan for the incorporation of new media into the Service. Of course, maybe he misses the "serious" collection. I recommend, because, if not, you know that Mr. Rivas doesn't like it, every time he speaks of new laws, he says, "Really," because, if not, it doesn't seem to be his proposals if they aren't accompanied by the "Really" collection. I would also like to take advantage of the UME. I don't know why it bothers UME to collaborate in the extinction of the fires — no, no, because here you've been criticized, especially — as the Greeks know — when you have zero costs for the Galician Union and zero costs for the Greeks, and they come to collaborate with other administrations. [[Murmurs.]] I don't know if it would be very responsible not to accept that other administrations or the Army had come to help at that time. I think all the neighbors and neighbors will thank you very much for cooperating with us in these tasks. I insist: I think we would be wrong if, in a certain summer, there were not many fires, I could have benefited the Government or could have politically benefited the People's Party, and I think thinking that would be a mistake, because the only great beneficiaries would be the Greeks and would be Galicia. Before I finish, I would like to remind you, Counsellor, that you have talked about major challenges: a new land mobilization law, in which we are also working from the People's Parliamentary Group for setting up in value of abandoned lands; the setting up of a new public fire extinguishing service, once the conclusions of the expert commission have also been completed; the agreement for the recovery of model villages, above all outside the parishes with high fire capacity; acting in the interface areas in the protection bands with activity. Don't tell me, Mr. Speakers of the Opposition, that they are not exciting, exciting challenges, that they can bring the solution that we all want for the recovery and setting and value of our rural, Galician countryside. The Union has a commitment to the fight against fires and mountains to protect — I insist — people, goods and our forest wealth, and for that we must work in coordination and collaboration with the other administrations. We're not going to refuse the collaboration of other administrations. And I also wanted to end by thanking the Service again and appealing also — why not? — to the citizen's conscience to denounce any delicious and incendiary activity and also to alert the extinguishing services to any fire they have knowledge of. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u172	Thank you, Mr. Blanco Paradello. Close-up turn, Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I take note of what Mr. Blanco Paradelo told me, and I'll tell you, Mr. Rivas: seriously, we're going to manage the territory, manage the territory. We collect the recommendations, which say we have to manage the uses of agricultural, livestock and forestry soil. We are developing — and it will be gathered into a rule of law — the catalogue of high agricultural and forestry productivity land, to place every thing in its place. Of course we make houses for cements! I want to ask you all a question: Does the common sense have copyright? Look, we don't want to put on medals, Mr. Rivas. We want to put on all the medals that we're here. That's why we propose the pact. If the ideas are good, let's get them all together and get them out of the way. You talk and I want to talk about the Service. Of course, to go to a professionalism you have to work more, more time — I say — Of course, with three months, you can't look for that professionalism. That's why we, who understand the October 2017 message, went from three to six months. And, speaking of budget arrangements, I want to remind you that in Chapter I of the Galician Union that is 11 million euros. And now, that we're twice as long as we were three years ago — that's not a little, no, passing from three to six months, man! at least double — I'm very surprised when they tell me what precarious service is; that is, I'm going from three to six months. And now, we're not there yet at six months, because we're in five, and we want nine or twelve. And I say -- I told the Service too -- we have to be a versatile service, and that versatility is extinction, where we are the best, and moving forward towards prevention. We didn't do things! Prevention, if you become strategic and planned and you all know it, it has to be centrally designed too. That's why we created a Subdirection of Prevention, to work on that line. And when we talk about strategy, I put here things that you say and where we can agree. Rianxo's fire went through an area of the bus, very similar to what happened in 2006. Well, maybe in that bus area, we've got to put 300 meters above leafy strips. Well, this is common sense, you can't tell me it's a block idea. Even if it was the Block idea, if it's good, we'll do it. Well, but we're working on it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, Mr. Rivas, and I understand this because everyone has the responsibilities when he rules. I've been touched by this, but the law needs to be changed. This can't be done from one moment to another, we have to change a lot of things within the law. That's why we propose to make a new law to prevent and extinguish Galician fires, among other things, to collect this. Mr. Rodríguez, I want to be very clear on the subject. When I talked about climate conditions, I said that if I have the RPT, the relationship of jobs, approved with 548 jobs, even if I want you among the most professional people possible, what I can't stop is if climate conditions come or a wave of fires comes. I'm asking you. Don't you say there's got to be more people in service to be able to fight that fire strike? Then you can't tell me not to call people if a fire strike comes, I say! And I ask everyone: nearly 3,000 people -- 2,976 -- working in the service, are there many or few? Let's see if we open this debate at once, that we're talking about a very large number of people. By the way, great professionals, I won't get tired of repeating it. But we have to assess how far we can go with public budgets. We have to work a lot more on the prevention planning strategy, and I think the number we have is enough. But that has to talk, among other things, along with what you said about watch tapes and mobile watches -- and I'm also going to remove Mr. Rivas' unease -- that's what the expert group would have to say. But do we not create a group of experts designated by all parliamentary groups to speak specifically about the service? Do you not remember that the creation of this group of experts was the main task of not voting for the committee's ruling? You can ask the people at the PSOE, who we know perfectly well why he didn't vote: because the municipal brigades had to be eliminated, that was his criterion. And we say, let's talk to the experts. To me, personally - and I say it here as a rural councillor - I think it's important to have a presence in the territory, and I'm also told the people in the service. Now, what do we have to improve -- I said in my first intervention -- the professionalism of the municipal brigades? Let's work on that, talk to the expert group, make them more professional. But 1,500 people in the territory are a very important number also in the defense against fires. That is why we said: as we have to debate this, we are going to debate it with the expert group. They're talking about these things, uh, they're talking about these things. I want to thank you. I think the people there, of course, have a lot more qualifications than I do, and you've appointed them as experts. I can tell you that I've been at a meeting and they're people with common sense, and I want to congratulate you on the effort you're making in reconfiguration of the service. Now, I also ask you: if it turns out that this group of experts appointed by all parliamentary groups makes a report and you don't feel well, what are you going to say? Because they were also designated by you. So I say, let's all work together. Let's find a solution to all the challenges we have. I want to finish my intervention, of course, summarizing these challenges because they seem to me sufficiently important, and summarizing what I said this afternoon here, May 28, 2019. For me, of course, it's an important afternoon, because I came here to talk about issues as important to the Greeks as the prevention and extinction of Galician fires, I think it deserves the reflection of all those who represent them. We're talking about Pladiga, which is a part, not everything, of prevention and extinction. But we also talk about the great challenges we have to face in the fight against fires. The need for greater prevention effort, which has to be planned and done strategically. And I'll buy you everything we talk about here about that prevention. For that we have to make a new law for the prevention and extinction of fires in Galicia; a law in which I am going to participate -- and I commit myself to it and I will put in place the working groups -- the entire service of extinguishing fires in Galicia and everyone who has something to say in this law. This will not come from an office made that way, but will come with participation. From the protection of our villages against forest fires and the need to adequately combat fires in the urban and forest interface. That's what the counselor says. That's where we have the problem of 33,000 population nuclei and we have to attack it. The configuration of our service -- and also the rural councillor -- has to move forward in its characterization as a public service, unique, versatile and as professional as possible, and equipped with the means that correspond to it. And for that we're going to make a multi-year plan of material and human needs, because there's also going to be a lot of retirements in service, and that's what we have to consider as well. And finally, but no less important, citizenship and zero tolerance against incendiaries. We all have to make it clear that those who burn our mountains are criminals. And we also talk about the need to agree; and I'm going to make two more notes. First of all, if I do something more self-criticism, I don't know what's going to happen to me. I say that it can't be that a parliamentary group tells me that I'm not doing enough self-criticism and that I'm making a whole amendment. Look, I'm going to tell you one thing clearly: I'm from the People's Party of Galicia, I'm tremendously proud to belong to this parliamentary force and I take point by point everything you've done here in Galicia. Because the People's Party is what made Galicia a referee of economic growth and stability. [[Applause]] So I take everything you've done. And I mean something else to make my posture clear. Despite being self-critical and having to do it, I mean something else. Thank you very much, Mr. Pérez Seco, and thank you very much for the Socialist Party because they understood the timing of what we are discussing here and its importance. And I also want to announce that, as soon as we have the chance, I will convene all parliamentary groups to talk about what we have here today. And I end up proposing again. I propose that we move forward towards an autonomous pact, a Welsh pact against forest fires, a pact of all parliamentary groups, a pact in which all of us, Government, parliamentary groups, experts and members of the service take on the challenges that I had previously announced, and we also have enough scope to fulfil the mandate given to us by the citizens who voted for us. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia, our mountain and our rural areas deserve the effort. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u174	Thank you, Counselor. We move on to point 4 of the agenda, non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo and D. Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez, on the presentation by the Government of Galicia in the Galician Parliament of a proposal for the implementation of the funds of the European Integrated Territorial Investment Strategy to help reverse the demographic regression of the regions of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u175	There are no amendments. To formulate the proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u176	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and good afternoon also to our guests who are leaving. As you know, we've been for thirty-two months of this tenth legislation; almost three years since the constitution of this legislation; almost three years since the President of Galicia, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, announced in the plenary of this House, in his investment speech, that this would be the legislation of the rural. When there's a little more than a year left to finish this tenth legislation, Mr. Núñez Feijóo's government balance of Galician union lets us, in ten years of government, lose more than 97,000 people; and if we go to the tenth legislation, in these nearly three years we've lost nearly 20,000 people. The province of Ourense, today, has more pensioners than affiliates. It's the worst data in all provinces of the entire state. We've lost more than 241,000 people in ten years, and only in this tenth legislation, 70,000 people less than forty years old. We have the lowest vegetative growth in all autonomous communities and a conjunctural indicator of fertility of 1.12 children per woman; that is, the third autonomous community starting in line. Practically 94% of the Greek women under the age of 30 don't have children, being the worst given to all autonomous communities. Eight out of ten Greek municipalities have lost population in the last decade. And the aging rate tells us that for every 100 under sixteen, we have one hundred and fifty-seven older than sixty-four. As far as the labour market is concerned, the balance left to us by Mr. Núñez Feijóo's governments is not much more flattering. Ten years later, and with 97,000 less people, we have 88,300 less busy, less. In agriculture we have 20,300 less busy, and if we go only to this legislation, we also have 3,300 less busy in this rural legislation in agriculture. And as for unemployed people, it's true they go down, but they go down only 8,800 stops -- that is, they go down by 4,41%, while in the middle of the state they're down by 16,52%. The home situation isn't much better either. In the first quarter of 2019, IGE data, we have to have 55,000 homes with all its members unemployed and 26,200 homes in which no income enters. In this country's legislation, when we've spent three years of legislation and there's only one year left to finish, we want to know what you've done to Galician Union at this time. Well, look, what you've done to Galician Union at this time is to leave 305 million euros unimplemented in programs directly related to population settlement and rural development, 305 million! Leave unexecuted EUR 373 million in promoting employment and labour market institutions, EUR 373 million in rural legislation! [[Applause]] A population-wide broadband extension that is in 2018 at 61%, while the average state is at 81%. There's insufficiency in children's school squares. Public or public management squares in Galicia cover only two out of ten children from 0 to 3 years. And if we take into account the concerts, only 3.8 out of 10 children from 0 to 3 years. Inadeficiency in residential and day-to-day squares. We have a report from the Board of Auditors, presented in July 2018, and what we are told is that, in ten years of government Feijóo, the creation of public squares or public management in residential centers was zero, zero! That the rate of residential squares in the population over 64 years of age in Galicia is 3.05%, while the state average is 4%, and WHO recommendations are 5%. What do we have, too? Well, a precaution in health services. Today morning, when the law was debated, Galicia is the third autonomous community with the worst ratio of doctors or nurses per inhabitant from all over Spain. We have deficiency in hours dedicated to the pediatric care service in health centers, mainly in those most rural. We have a significant reduction in support for the drive of the rural world, see the GDR, municipal roads and some other help. Resources are reduced to municipalities for socio-health care. It is true that August 11, 2016 is created by decree the Galego Observatory of Demographic Dynamics. In addition, in this decree, Article 5(i) states that in its functions, inter alia, it is preparing an annual report on the demographic situation in Galicia, which will be the subject of hearing process, as well as public information, through a specific site within the institutional portal of the Galician Union. I'd like to know where those reports are. Two years ago, since his creation, we haven't seen anything at all in paper or hanging. The only thing we all have, at least the participants in this Demographic Observatory, is that in July 2018 a report was delivered by experts and that was commissioned by this observatory. It's going to be a year from the presentation of this report, and today we're still waiting for public policies arising from the recommendations and analyses made in that report. When did the Galician Demographic Law be approved? What are you going to do with this report? We've been waiting for a year, there's been a scarce year of legislation, and the Galician Union doesn't seem to be in a hurry for a situation that I just showed you is much more than worrying. In this report, it can be concluded that it is urgent to adopt active intervention measures that integrate into public policies, which go a little as announced at the outset. This report makes it clear that individuals or couples want to have a number of children, which would also guarantee at least the necessary replacement rate, and that what is needed or what is lacking is in the deficiencies or lack of the right conditions on the part of public policies to enable these people who can freely decide to have children or children. From this report, you can draw several things that — I say — go along the line of what was initially stated: tell us, for example, that it is necessary to create more children's schools from 0 to 3 years of age in conditions of universal accessibility and at appropriate prices to the family economy; tell us that it is necessary to create social infrastructures for conciliation; tell us that it is necessary to agree on the possibility of a social reorganization of work in hours and times; tell us that it is essential to give proper attention to dependent people; tell us that it is necessary to finance sufficiently enough resources for the provision of socio-Community services; tell us that it is necessary to increase the number of public squares of public squares in day centres and residential centres; tell us that it is necessary to give us that it is necessary for us that it is urgent for a policy-based housing policy and for public promotion policy makers, both in terms and in terms of governance; tell us that it is essential for us that it is necessary for us to give us that we what we need long-time rates of working rates to ensure that we are needed, we have policies that we need, we have low, we have good confidence, we have policies active to ensure that it is able, and social policies to ensure that it is able, we have active to ensure that it is able to ensure that it is able to ensure that it has confidence to ensure that it has a policy to ensure that it has confidence to ensure and ensure that public policies to ensure that public and ensure that public policies to ensure that public confidence and security and security and security and security and security and security and security and security and security and security and security and security and security and security and security and security and security to increase and security and security and security and security and security and security and security, to increase and security and security and security and security and security and security and security and security and security and security and security and security and security and security and security and security needs to ensure to increase, to increase in order, to ensure, to ensure, to increase, to increase, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure that it, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure that it needs to ensure that it needs to ensure that it needs to ensure that it, to ensure that it, to ensure that the stability and security and security and security and security and security and security and security and security and security and security and security and security and security and security and security Well, I just made a summary that could well be collected by the Government of Greece, or in this case by the Members and Members of the People's Party and transferred to the Government of Greece, so that they can work now, immediately, to reverse this demographic situation that is bleeding to us. Look, a year ago, exactly on May 30, 2018, Commission 3 went to the same LNP -- that is, exactly the same as we brought here today. Paradoxically it was unanimously adopted, although, of course, as always, with the People's Party's knee we had to accept a transaction. But we have often told the People's Party, the party that supports the Government of Galicia, that we allow transactions when we understand that these policies will be applied and will improve people's lives.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u177	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u178	I'm done, Mr. President. We'd like to know, a year later, that he made the Galician board in this sense, since it's true that you approve the documents, do the decree and create the observatory, but the reality is that in practice they don't do anything at all. I would like the honourable Member or the honourable Member in charge of answering this non-law proposal to tell us what he has done and what he has planned to do to the Council of Galicia this year as little as he has left. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u179	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u180	Thank you, Mr. President. For a moment I thought we were in the debate of the state of the nation by the number of issues that brought here to the debate the spokesman of the Socialist Party, which are really fundamental issues and that have to do with the planning of economic policy, social policy and territorial policy, with how to make better use of the financial resources to develop those policies and also with how to make policy of demographic impulse to combat this real drama, that real tragedy of the demographic catastrophe that is suffering our country, which is, according to many people, the main challenge we have as a country and as a community in the socio-economic field. Of course, what this debate highlights is the lack of planning by the Galician Board of Territorial Development Policy and the fight against the social and territorial imbalances that our country has, starting from the territorial management guidelines to any other planning, which is not developing effective measures to correct those territorial imbalances that our country has. Then there is the question of the initiative put forward by the Socialist Group, which is how to take advantage of the financial instruments, for example, that exist at European level, territorial initiatives and integrated territorial investments to channel resources into these territories to promote the harmonic development of their productive sectors, the creation of employment, the development of infrastructures and also the provision of social services, which are fundamental to the dynamisation of these territories and also to create and increase population levels. Well, the reality is that there is no such planning. We have some examples — for example, in Portugal — where they have been concerned about developing integrated territorial development strategies, for example, to identify which are the priorities and needs of the territory and how to channel resources and investments to empower those territories and then also to carry out those integrated territorial investments or those community-based local development strategies that are also provided for in those instruments. Of course, with regard to the demographic impulse, sometimes there's a lot of debate here, on the one hand, demagogic and, on the other hand, superficial. Because really, what's going on, there's a lot of talk about what are the possible solutions, but there's a little talk about what are the causes. The causes have to do with the policies that have been developed in recent decades by all governments of the European Union and also by governments of the State, which, with the excuse of the crisis, has been drastically cutting public spending, for example, especially social spending, and reducing basic public services throughout the country. This mainly affects these more depressed areas and has led, for example, to the increase in social inequalities, to the increase in imbalances, to the impoverishment of the working class, to the precariousness of work, to the difficulty of access to housing for young people and also to youth emigration. Those are the causes, the factors that are explaining what's going on in the country. But there are also other deep structural causes, for example, that have to do with Galicia's financing system, with the discrimination that our country suffers at the general level and also with municipal funding, which is an important impediment for us to have resources to develop these services, to create infrastructures and to develop job creation initiatives and also economic development throughout the country. And it also has to do with the development of self-government, with taking on competences, with taking advantage of our resources and boosting the self-centered and sustainable development of the territory; not putting governments to the service of the interests of others, which are literally taking our wealth and our resources. The key, ultimately, is the creation of quality jobs throughout the country, because really the only regions that are increasing population are those that also have employment growth rates, and they're very few in the country. So that's a determining factor. So the BNG group will logically support this initiative, what it does is the X-ray of an immense crisis in our country, the demographic crisis. And -- as the socialist spokesman has already said -- it's less bad that we're in the country's legislation, if not how the country would be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u181	Thank you, Mrs Bará. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u182	Well, we agree with your proposal: we agree with your proposal to transfer to the European Commission the project of reorienting part of our country's European funds to strategies that reverse the demographic situation, at least, of the most impoverished and ageing of the Greek regions. We also agree with what was exposed here. The demographic issue we understand is one of the strategic challenges of Galician society in the 21st century. The global data, which you have exposed perfectly, shows the failure of the Plan for the demographic dynamization of Galicia. The main objective of this plan was very clear: it was to try to raise the synthetic fertility index from an average of 1.08 children per woman to 1.59 on the 2020 horizon; we are, as you said, at 1.12. Clearly, there has been a failure, it is clear that the Board has not even done the analysis of that failure yet in relation to its policies and it is clear that the creation of the observatory has marked a breakthrough, but it was not enough, because the idea was to have that law of demographic impulse in 2018, and it has not yet reached this chamber. Well, the demographic projections of the IGE would lead us to a scenario, to follow things the same way, of some 2.5 million people in 2031. So you have to see this, too, given the percentage that we represent in the state as a whole, which is getting smaller and smaller. In 2031, we would lose 8.5 percent of the population. But it is that in the most rural districts of Ourense province, in practically the whole of Ourense province, more than ten percent of the population would be lost, just as in the south of Lugo — where I live — or in the eastern area of Lugo. We know that the causes of this phenomenon are multiple and complex, and some have planetary character. Clearly, the reduction in the number of children per woman is not an evil in itself; on the contrary, I understand that it is one of the advances of humanity, the possibility of reducing birth rates. But, of course, there are others that have to do with characteristics of politics or non-politics that apply to get to a situation. Among other things, we could talk about the rapid and disorderly transition of our country from a basic agricultural economy to an industrial and service economy, with a disorderly growth in the metropolitan areas. We could also talk about the increasingly subordinated situation of our country in the state as a whole. But going to the specific areas of the population to which this initiative refers: what does the process of demographic regression at the social and cultural level mean in the most affected regions of Galicia? On the one hand, on the social level, this over-age also imposes on the greatest challenge of care, with an even greater burden on women — especially all — and the need for more services for aging, lack of employment and migration begins. There's no favourable contours for any children they want to have, if they want to have. Such care also requires greater public investment: there are no squares — as he said — in private homes and day centers. At the territorial level, it is ignited in that territorial imbalance, a model of disorder favored by the Union itself, and it is also ignited in the urban disaster that was fostered by the Union itself. At the level of landscape and culture, traditional landscapes are lost and traditions are lost. A traditional landscape very evident from where I am, that landscape of the half-yarded wine of the Sacred Ribeira: what will remain of it in ten years, when many wine growers and wine growers can no longer work and maintain that landscape? Or it's buried in detachment. But, in connection with the previous debate, it also contributes to that greater risk of fires, because the rural environment is increasingly abandoned, and in the most impoverished areas it is evident — as in all Galicia, but in these areas it is more evident — that the breach of the distances of protection to the cores or the channels of communication — that I have only one minute left. The fact that the main income, in most cases, is pensions — as is also mentioned in the initiative — is particularly worrying, but above all because it translates one of the most worrying elements of the Greek demographic situation, which is the least of the active population, that lack of generational relief. So we understand that yes, the singularity and severity of the demographic implosion of certain regions, most interior, justifies being able to request new integrated territorial investment strategies for the country. Moreover, any geographic area with particular territorial characteristics can be the object of a new ITI. These ITIs are instruments that can — theoretically — better implement these European funds in an integrated way, and the objectives are precisely to contribute to territorial and economic cohesion within the European Union. What are the requirements? To develop a strategy, define concrete targets and coordinate inter-administerably, because they don't have to match an administrative limit -- that is, planning and coordination -- something that Join is basically alien to in its trajectory. So we are absolutely in favour, and that's more: I would also open a debate about the need for so far as the current divisions of the Greek administration are feasible, aside from their usefulness or not, but until the extent and viability of the current administration in the context of demographic crisis.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u183	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos Couñago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u184	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. There was a moment, Mrs. Rumbo, that I thought I would find a moment to talk about the ITIs; almost found it at the end of his intervention. I want to say a few things, but I want to tell them clearly. The first one, on the subject of the demographic problem: for the parliamentary group I represent and for the Government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo, Galicia's demographic problem is something more than a priority, is the priority. But that priority is not solved with magic solutions, as you intended to ask, but to reverse it requires serious, deep and sustained measures in time. Because it is a problem that not only Galicia suffers, I suffer from other Spanish regions and other European regions that follow a similar demographic moment. You were asked what made this government in this matter during this legislation. Well, I have some reminder to make in this regard: zero taxes in rural areas; twenty-four thousand child care centres — by the way, eight points above the most demanding recommendations of the European Union —; approval of the Return plan; good Care to facilitate personalized resources for family reconciliation, of more than EUR 200; specific aid to the conciliation of self-employed workers, with more than EUR 600,000 per budget; greeting card of EUR 100 per month for childcare, with more than 40,000 children who have already benefited from this extended card up to the age of three years and with an investment of EUR 35 million per year; Council bonus, with up to EUR 200,50 per month of childcare assistance, without a credit limit on the budget; or sixty-one childcare homes in municipalities of less than five thousand inhabitants, which will be seventy-six before this legislation is completed. By the way, you asked yourself what was the draft law of demographic impulse: it's already a preliminary draft and the first public consultation procedure has passed. The commitments — which I have told you on several occasions, Mrs Rumbo — must be quantified, and the commitments are shown in the budget: in this legislation, in measures to combat the demographic problem, EUR 300 and EUR 5 million which is put on the table in Galicia. That's seriousness, rigour and hard work in time; three hundred and fifty-five million euros. These are the contributions made by the People's Party, and now we are going to see the contribution of the Socialist Party of Galicia, which is to present this initiative, an extemporaneous initiative that has already been debated in May 2018 — one year ago — and to which an amendment has been made, an amendment that you have qualified to "pass the knee"; it is a curious way of understanding the parliamentary dialogue. A amendment which was adopted with 11 votes in favour and one abstention in Commission 3 and which reads: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Parliament to consider towards the post 2020 period a proposal for the implementation of funds in the territorial investment strategy integrated with the aim of helping to reverse the situation of the demographic regression in which many Greek districts are found." We all seemed to agree. By the way, it was already time-consuming, and it was not approved because it was already told that approval of a framework was needed after 2020 in order to carry out these integrated territorial investments. The post 2020 framework is in the process of drafting and negotiating. The first draft of the Regulation was presented on 29 May and envisaged the possibility of developing ITI. The new European Parliament is not yet set up, because the elections were held last weekend, and the new European Commission will be set up in November this year. Your Honor, there is a live parliamentary mandate that is being fulfilled within the deadlines and that is following the regulatory procedures. The question then, is: do you bring this initiative here, but what has changed?, what has changed it so that it brings us to the debate an initiative already debated and on which there is an agreement? Because, by the way, we did not say that it was extemporaneous; the other groups, which today transferred their support, also said that it could not be approved because it was extemporaneous, because we are not in that post 2020 framework that needs to be developed. We're still in 2019, right, at least for a few months. Therefore, they have not changed their commitments and have not changed their circumstances, but it seems that the lack of ideas of the Socialist Parliamentary Group leads to present already debated initiatives on which almost unanimous agreements exist which are developing in time and manner following the procedures envisaged. This begins to become a habitual behavior, which is subject to consideration of the plenary initiatives that have already been discussed in committee. In the last two plenary sessions it has been repeated on three occasions; this happened with two initiatives, by the way, that had already been approved before and whose mandates are alive. Of course, you have the right to bring in everything you consider necessary for the debate, but we too — you will understand — have the right to think that this is a waste of effort and time and that, frankly, it does not contribute too much. Yes, I don't know what happens to Mr. Losada. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] In any case, I really don't know if they need new ideas to present or if they lack memory about what we've already agreed on; it's certainly a curious thing. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u185	Quiet. Finish, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u186	Well, they have to take their vows. It misses me from the second most voted force of the municipal elections, and I'm surprised they're overvoting them. What's clear is that they're left with a little bit of prepotence, that's quite obvious.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u187	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u188	In any case, I repeat again: we are not going to support this initiative because we are already discussing it, because we have reached an agreement and because we are meeting the agreement. When you have something to contribute and leave your particular day of the marmot...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u189	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u190	...we will be here, ready to debate constructively. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u191	Thank you. Group author of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u192	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Bará, it's not the debate about the state of Autonomy, but the data are what they are, and I think that doing an X-ray with objective data seems to me the most logical, the most serious and rigorous to present an initiative. Mrs. Vázquez Verao, when I spoke about the children, of course, if I didn't say so, it was my intention to say that those who wanted to have children, of course. Mr Pazos, look: first of all, we are the parliamentary group that most initiatives have presented in this House, and we are fourteen Members. That's first. Secondly, neither you nor any member of the People's Party will mark us on our agenda. [[Applause]] I ask you and we introduce this initiative again because we have the impression that, what you usually do, a year after you have adopted an initiative in a committee, they have done nothing. Or do you want to wait for 2020 to approve it in 2025? Something quite common in the work of the Galician Union. Man, please! [[Murmurs.]] Anyway, you were talking to me and you did here a recompilation of the measures launched by the Galician Union. Frankly, given the data, it seems they're going to have to change these measures or reinforce them more, because the data are what they are, and we haven't really improved anything in demographic regression. [[Applause]] I remind you that in this legislation — less than three years — we have lost 20,000 inhabitants. By the way, I'm going to show you a press release that I'm sure you've seen it, but more than anything because as you get a little bit of the election here... "The PP bleeds through the countryside: it loses 65% of the votes in the smaller municipalities." These are their results, so I don't know what comes here bragging about what they did during these elections. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo shows you a document to the members of the House.]] Well, they won, but they won't rule in any of the Greek cities. [[Applause]] If that's a profit, then congratulations, because they just had a few more votes. [[Murmurs.]] Look, back at the ITIs, which you told me you weren't talking about them: I tell you that integrated territorial strategies are essential to achieve a smart, sustainable and inclusive Europe, as foreseen in the Europe 2020 Strategy. So integrated territorial investments are an instrument that is intended to implement a set of actions integrated into a specific geographic area in order to respond to the specific challenges of that geographic area. So what we understand and the intention of bringing this GNP to this plenary is that the Galician Union will take advantage of all the means and resources it has at its disposal — and we will be there to support — so that this unimproved Greek demographic situation will be reversed, as long as you say that measures have been implemented in all aspects that I have just reported to you. In addition, I told you that in order to implement these operating programs there are a number of key elements, which are a designated territory and a strategy that focuses on the development needs of the affected area, an action package for your application — in addition...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u193	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u194	...here are many of the European funds such as the ERDF, the European Social Fund or the Cohesion Fund, and they can complement them with the EAFRD and the FEMP—and finally the governance agreements for ITI management. I would recommend to them, although there is a year left of legislation and that things can change — and the indentation of votes for you too — that they change their strategy and policies, because the Greeks and the Greeks need active policies that change certain situations that you continuously provoke. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u195	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the regulation of the functions of nursing technicians and the third transitional provision of the Basic Statute of the Public Employee
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u196	There are amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and to the People's Parliamentary Group. [[G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, through his spokesman and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, presented to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal.Amendment of amendment.The resolution should be replaced by the following text: "The Parliament of Galicia urges the Council of Galicia to address the Central Government to study the feasibility of promoting coordinated regulation of the function of the and the Techniques of Nursing by adapting the rules to the current reality."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u197	To formulate the proposal has the floor to Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u198	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. I want to greet our guests, and I say to us because they're all women, technical nursing assistants who are attending the debate from the rostrum. Today we bring an element that is of justice, which is a clear element in the situation of an absolute discrimination of a professional collective and which is also quite related to the situation of other medical technicians and techniques. I would like to remind you that on one occasion we have already transferred similar issues to the Health Commission in relation to the dependent technical companions, who were voted against by the majority group, and in relation to the professional category of health emergency technicians and techniques. Recently, on professional competences we discussed in the Health Committee, and the majority group's justification at that time — which is a very similar subject, although not the same as we are bringing here today — was to move that there were no techniques and techniques within public health, in this case of Health emergencies, and that there was therefore no need to update their situation on a professional basis. In this case, we understand that there is obviously no kind of excuse or element that prevents administration from normalizing a situation that should have taken many years to normalize according to the regulations that I will now refer to, but we understand that there has not even been a political will to do so. Companions do absolutely essential work within the public health system in all kinds of services within specialized care, and they're also working on what has to do with primary care needs. Companions take care of, organize, feed, work on multidisciplinary teams, work on emergencies, work on ICUs, work on sterilization, work on a lot of services in which -- at least I'm a nurse and I've worked on many teams with many of these colleagues -- you have to emphasize the high level of technification of your work, the absolute involvement with the public health system and, of course, their exemplaryness in the work they develop day by day, in conditions the truth is that quite complex because, in addition, they are a professional category quite forgotten by the Health Administration. It is only to be remembered that less than a year ago our group — and I myself — was also registering initiatives calling for public employment offers. It must be remembered that just a few months ago, Junta was worthy of understanding the need to convene squares, because this category has been without leaving any kind of call for squares, and the last of only sixty posts, when there are thousands of fellows working in the different units of the public health system. So it was necessary to update a situation that, in addition, is precarious, a precarious situation that they share with the rest of the nursing staff and that we have also dealt with in this plenary and the committees on multiple occasions, related to the temporary contracts, to the hour contracts, to the day contracts, to the urgency of planning on calls and with a series or an endless element that obviously does not relate to the professional category, but that they are important to understand the condition in which the nursing staff are found and, in this case, the nursing assistant technicians, who are absolutely essential in the work and in the health system units. In the face of this situation, today the element that we bring is of absolute justice. They know your lordships who have already been debated on other occasions, that it has already been approved in some autonomic parliament and that it is an element for which, in our understanding, there is - except for the economic issue for some governments - no circumstance or element that makes this matter not approved until now. It should be recalled that in 2005 the National Qualifications Institute issued a report in which it considered that it should increase the level of qualification of this professional category, moving from level 2 to level 3, but did not change the professional qualification. The evolution, in addition, of this qualification is stagnant, because public administrations have not yet been interested in updating this situation, since the rule governing their functions is an absolutely obsolete rule of 1973. It's quite obvious that scientific progress and all the evolution of all health professions, too, in this case, makes a 40-year rule not, of course, or at least appropriate to define the capabilities, the conditions under which companions can work and all the qualifications they have to be in the different services of the Galician Health Service, in this case, but throughout the National Health System. They also know that as early as 1975, vocational training was initially regulated — after it changed — that in 1986 the professional category was recognised and that autonomous communities also have a responsibility to recognize the functions and define the functions of this profession. In view of this situation, it seems absolutely incomprehensible that after a rule had been adopted for more than eleven years, such as the EBEP, the Basic Statute of the Public Employee of this country in 2007, transitory provision was maintained through a transitional provision that prevents the application of Article 75, which refers to bodies and scales, which classified in some way at that time or altered the relationship of civil servants and civil servants and workers and public employees of the administration and adapted it to the professional categories and to the vocational training that each of our country has. According to Article 75 and Article 73, which refers to the different groups, the techniques and techniques, in this case, should be included in a group C, which is, as their lordships know, divided into two groups: the C1 and the C2. In the case of C1, this is what refers to those people called technical and technical or with bachelor's degree. This should be the professional category in which they should be, for more than a decade now, framed and framed by all healthcare technicians and techniques. However, at this time, due to this transitional provision, they are still placed within a group which is the C2, for which no specific health training is required. This is a harm compared to other health professions that involve worse conditions when they have continued training, worse wages for professionals as well, and, of course, a consideration that is not adapted to the legal texts we have today and which therefore leaves these partners in a situation of absolute abandonment to an administration that is not interested in any work that is as essential as the rest of our health professions within our public health system. So what In Marea today we saw proposing with this proposal not of law is an element of justice, is an element that would help to improve not only the conditions of the partners themselves, but also of our Galician Health Service. We know that, moreover, it has to be approved by the Central Government too, because the professional category is an element that needs to be approved by the Central Government too, but we also wanted to move it here, because we understand that it is important that all autonomous administrations — which in addition, in the case of health care, the health competences are transferred — are involved in defending the rights of these health professionals. What we are asking for today is relatively simple and should not lead to any problem for any of the parliamentary groups, and of course they should be interested in — I say — the rights of a professional category that is usually forgotten. First, we believe that coordinated regulation of the functions of nursing technicians and technicians should be promoted, adapting the regulations to the current reality. It cannot be that after decades of scientific evidence, of changes in professional competences, of work, of how work has evolved in the different units within the National Health System and of all the capacity and activities that these companions do, it is not adapted to current regulation. And secondly, that the third transitional provision of EBEP is repealed, applying Article 76 as transferring the text itself. It makes no sense in any norm that kept the transitority of a provision for more than a decade, because it therefore nullifies the content of the articulate and legitimately loses or lacks sense the intention that the legislator had at that time to regulate professional categories. We understand — and I am finished now, that I have no more time left — that they are basic elements that need to be moved in order to be approved and that we need to take into account the need to regulate or keep up to date the professional competences, the professional category and all the elements that will, of course, result in improvements not only for workers and workers, but also for the National Health System and, in this case, for the Galician Health Service. We believe that today we can take support from here for the whole group of this camera. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u199	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u200	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, first of all, we want to add not only to the greeting of the people who accompany us today in this debate, but also, from a more affectionate point of view, to their thanks for the work. The truth is, you have to admit that there are some questions of what you said here to En Marea's voicer that are tremendously true. I am, first of all, attached to a self-criticism: we often do an analysis of the National Health System, of Sergas in particular in this case, excluding sometimes even in debates — not by will, but with total reality; we have to be frank — many collectives who are essential to the work they do, and one is this case of TCAE. In that sense, you must really thank your work and apologize; it is true, I have made that mistake and, therefore, I think it is fair to acknowledge it. We believe, moreover, that this proves that the health system works in such a complex and broad way that it often deserves a very detailed analysis of some issues. When we speak roughly we lose the ability to see some details; it happens in this case. Of course, the proposed initiative is a claim that has a more specifically labour component, which would be a more union cut-off claim, but it has a reality. We are considering here, on the part of the proposed group, trying to modify a legislation that has affected for more than forty years, and the situation, for that alone, should deserve our attention. Therefore, we agree with the essence of what is proposed here; not only is it reasonable, but it is also absolutely logical and makes all the sense that we should put it in that direction. We have tabled an amendment — if it is not willing to transform at any time the essence of what is being raised, but rather a question of formulation; for nothing in substance, only in an institutional way, for an institutional question to request — because this is a state debate in legal terms — that this feasibility is studied and that this study is able to deal with the regulatory changes that are necessary, with complete conviction that it must be heeded and with complete commitment that it must be heeded. We believe that this legal change must be addressed, because reality so demands and because we are also faced with a situation in which it is very difficult to sustain from the legal point of view and beyond the legal point of view, from the reality of the service itself, why keep that situation and not change it already. In that sense, we also believe that the proposed initiative is relevant and therefore we agree on that basis and the amendment has only a formal character. Besides, we were talking at the beginning of that recognition, and I'm going to allow myself in the time that I'm left to explain actually why that recognition and, from this problem, to value the whole system. It is true that this is a debate — as I said — in more labor or union terms, but it allows us to recognize — as we said at the outset — the need to take into account all the value that human resources have, in many respects, and, within human resources, all categories and all professional groups in the development of the system. When we talk about modifying or changing the primary care model, or modifying or changing models of operation and management of hospital centres — both principals and comarcas or all kinds of health care — we often forget that we do not have to do it solely from a management point of view, but rather to take into account collectives who do essential work, from which they often only perceive themselves, and perceive the quality of truth, when one has to pass situations himself or of people who are known and see how all the work is essential. So when we have that debate, we should also listen often to people who are most attached to reality. Many times — and I also insist in the sense of self-criticism — we listen to those who are most in management plans, and although we hear many and many professionals who are in attendance plans, we often do not listen to all the points of assistance, and that is a mistake that has been pointed out here on many occasions with this group of TCAEs and others. In addition, we believe that effective measures must be taken. With effective measures we refer to moving from declarations of intent to reality, something that has not been done until now, and in this many can also assume part of responsibility. Therefore, effective measures must be real and, in that sense, we believe that this initiative is also relevant. I didn't want to forget that we could put examples here of some of the demands of this collective -- passed at the Alvaro Cunqueiro Hospital -- but it would be to monopolize the debate with something concrete, but it's not much to mention that these are also the claims, sometimes, of the jobs that have even been unfairly underestimated and that have a lot to do with the work they do and the work they do. So from here again, our gratitude for your work, our appreciation for a reality that is true that they need to change and our willingness to agree with the resolution that we can achieve among all of us on the basis of this initiative which we — I insist — consider relevant and necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u201	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u202	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. I also greet the nursing care techniques that accompany us today in the rostrum; welcome. In the non-law proposal presented today in this Parliament, first of all, the opportunity is to increase the level of qualification of qualification of nursing assistant care and techniques, with express reference to the National Qualifications Institute (the Incual), the administrative body assigned to the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training, which prepares and keeps up to date the National Qualifications Catalogue and the corresponding Modular Training Catalogue. In this respect it must be said that, indeed, the regulatory legislation of education has and has always had relevance in the incardination of public officials' groups in the different classification groups. However, this relevance is manifested only by the mandate of the public service legislation itself and in accordance with the same provisions. On the other hand, the proposal is focused on promoting the coordinated regulation of the functions of nursing assistants and techniques, paying special attention to the statutory staff, noting the existence of techniques and techniques of auxiliary nursing care linked to other legal regimes that do not result from the application of statutory regulations. The function of auxiliary care technicians and techniques who have the status of statutory staff is collected in Articles 74 to 84 of the former non-optional Staff Regulations, which remain valid as long as each health service does not carry out the definition of functions, and this regulation applies to staff who provide services in public health institutions and which does not result from the application of auxiliary services in other fields and under other legal regimes, so the unification of intended functions is not possible in the application of the applicable legislation. The Basic Staff of the Public Employee has introduced a new classification of the staff member; it has already been discussed here and has already been commented on by the group responsible for the PNL. As far as the remunerative consequences of any classification are concerned, we must also comply with budgetary regulations. In accordance with the above regulations, the General State Budget Act for 2018 provides that the remuneration to be paid by the officials of the former group D, in which nursing assistant technicians are included, is that of subgroup C2. This same forecast, in accordance with the rules laid down, is based on the General Budgets Act of the Autonomous Community for the year 2019. Competition in this matter is the responsibility of the State, with the need to carry out the corresponding budget allocation and should be negotiated at the General Bureau of Public Employees and Employees, which is set up in the Ministry of Public Administration. We, from the People's Group, know the collective, we know their concerns and their demands, we listen to it and we are totally in agreement with everything they claim, as we will not agree with a collective which is a basic and fundamental cry for the care of our patients! They're always around them and they're probably the workers who spend the most time with the patients, the ones who listen to them and the ones who're always there; a very vocational work, like all those in the healthcare industry, that complements the basic care of our patients. But what you ask for in your LNP, without budget, is a toast to the sun. That's why we tabled an amendment, a amendment that goes beyond what the Socialist Party calls for in its amendment. We think — we have read it — and what we say to them is: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Parliament to call upon the Central Government to request the International Health Council to study the possible regulation of the functions of the professionals and the professionals affected by Article 76 of the basic Statute of the Public Employee to adapt the existing legislation regarding the regulatory framework of current, within the principle of institutional loyalty, with the guarantee of their financing". We hope to reach an agreement and that this GNP which is brought here today will be approved in this plenary unanimously. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u203	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u204	Good afternoon. I also greet the technical companions in nursing care. I also hope that today we will be able to get a unanimous approval, and I would like that, if that happens, then there was also unanimity and readiness when what is approved here becomes a reality, because I think we're talking about a collective with which it's good to make justice for them, because most of it is female. The truth is, I have to start by saying that the work of the TCAE doesn't always have the recognition of the social or work they deserve. They have qualifications — as was said here — but their work is often overshadowed, despite the proximity of the patients they attend. They perform tasks of the most diverse, from care, basic food or hygiene work and collaboration with diagnostic tests and consultations to psychological and emotional support for patients and family members, in many cases; they humanize assistance, which, of course, is not enough. That must have come to the point that it is necessary to make his work visible, to put it in value and to give him the relevance he deserves. As has already been said, the non-optional Staff Regulations of the year 1973 — i.e., we are talking about a rule of franchise, forty-six years old — is still in force in many respects in relation to health workers, which is the truth of which should make us reflect on this matter. In 1986 the professional category was recognised, in 1995 the title of nurse care assistant technician — TCAE — was established, with a mid-grade curriculum, and since that time it has not been developed or performed beyond a generic function of its functions. They continue to depend on a generic situation of the functions assigned, always under the supervision of the staff — in principle — of nursing and medical personnel, which in itself is a real problem, firstly, because they have not established what their functions are and cannot, as professionals, make clear what they have to do and how they have to do it, and on the other hand, is a cause for conflict, of course, by not having clearly established what their functions are. Then there's a question that, of course, is no less; there's a job bias, a situation that causes conflicts, and then an economic prejudice that's not less: we're talking about that your C2 frame instead of being in C1 means that between 300 and 400 euros gross, that grandchildren can assume around 200 euros a month. So we're talking about an injury and prejudice in the field of work, but also in the economic sphere, which is not less, because we're not talking about salaries, of course, disorbited. That is, of course, where the administrations have this delay in not wanting to solve them, even though everyone recognises their immense work and the essentials that they are in the field of health, that it is clear what their qualification is and where they are framed and that it is clear that in Article 76 it is established that in Group C, subdivided into C1 and C2, the C2 is a graduate in compulsory secondary education, which is not the case because they are technicians. I mean, it's very clear, but then why don't you take the steps? There's no need for Isabel the Catholic to break her entertainment, it's a matter of purely political will. Of course, it is a matter of political will! It turns out that every time you come to a parliament or go to the Congress of Deputies, you approve the parts of fundamental philosophy, but then you don't approve the part of making decisions, and that's what, of course, we shouldn't consent. With which, the BNG will support here this initiative that it presents in Marea. I hope that with that transaction, if you come to it, let's not override it to the Interterritorial Council, because there's no need for you to go back to sleep on the trial of the righteous, because there's no need to re-evaluate anything and because it's very clear that it's simply a matter of doing justice to a group that deserves it. Besides, it's legally established and there's enough legislation to do it, only lacks political will. I hope with that political will, of course, much sooner than later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u205	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u206	Thank you, President. I would like to begin by thanking at least the apparent provision of all the House's groups. We would like to agree on this. The amendments tabled are different; we understand that what moves us to bring this initiative here is the proposal that the professionals themselves make and, therefore, the need for a commitment from here. I've forgotten before: it's obvious that not only do the companions work within the National Health System and within the Galego Health Service, but also in social policies there are a very important number of companions who, in addition, are in quite complicated conditions within the homes of older people and the residences of people with disabilities, as we have discussed on many occasions. I, briefly, want to move that here they put a series of conditioners. I would like to, and I invite you to come to an agreement or a transaction between the various amendments and the proposal we make; we still have until tomorrow, which is the vote. But we would like this agreement that could be started here was not an element of delay — as the BNG spokesperson now pointed out — that it is no longer a delay that then implies that it is not approved or not reached at any port and that it is not effective at any time. In addition, the financing element cannot be a factor which is also dissuades from complying with legislation that is in force, such as EBEP, in a situation that is absolutely abnormal and from the discrimination of professionals who — as all spokesmen said — are absolutely essential within the public health system and also within the social policy system. Therefore, if there is provision by all groups of Parliament, I believe that there should be a willingness to reach an agreement so that tomorrow at the time of the vote we can vote affirmatively. I'm just finishing by moving thanks to the comrades and patience for all the time they've been waiting for this initiative to move to the debate. It is clear that there is a lot of work to be done: we must bring it back to the Congress of Members and Members — we have already done so in the previous legislation — and it is still pending that it is approved and, of course, more than approved, that it is effective for us to finish this situation. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-28-DSPG116.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Good afternoon.
