ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u1	Good morning. We will resume the meeting with the sixth item on the agenda, which corresponds to questions to the President of the Union. Before we begin we greet the Association of Students and Students at the University of Coruña and also the Association of Rural Women San Bartolomeu of Insua, Vilalba. Welcome to Parliament. And now we start with the questions. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Board of Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the forecasts of the Greek Government regarding the exercise of its powers in the field of health by rectifying cuts and privatizations to ensure people's right to health
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u2	You have the floor to Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u3	Thank you very much. Mr. Feijóo, I am very glad that today Mr. Casado hadn't had the chance to convene a merger, because I've already seen him changing his schedule, planting the Galician Parliament and taking a plane to Madrid. [[Applause]] In my home, I've been taught that it's very important in life to know which side you're on. And you have been portrayed this Sunday. While thousands of Welsh and Welsh were in the streets of Compostela defending public health, where was the president of the Union? In Madrid's crochet with the extreme right-wing, racist and machist, there were two demonstrations that made it very clear what everyone's priorities are. [[Applause]] Its aim is to make marriage and extreme right; that of the BNG and that of the social majority of this country, to defend the right to health, which you are risking the coup d'étects and privatizations. Did you stop thinking about the drama the family of the person who died at the Road CAP? You stopped to think about why there are mothers and parents from Zas to Gondomar who go out to the street to claim more pediatricians for their sons and daughters? Have you stopped to think about the reasons of primary care doctors and doctors, of the CAP standing at war, of emergency personnel, of ambulances, of the new doctors and doctors who don't give them to their precarious contract? You're welcome, Mr Feijóo: the public health problems will not be solved with lies or patches or by manipulating the TVG. I admit to you today I'm very curious about one thing: who's going to blame. Who's going to blame today? Will it be to the central government, will it be to the opposition, will it be to the professionals, will it be to that meteorite that walks through Galicia? Who are you going to blame today, Mr. Feijóo? We ask him to govern, to exercise the powers he has and to stop flowing the bulk. Because it's really worthwhile to see how a president of Galicia wakes up because he's the man of marriage, see how one day you're dealing with more skills with the BNG to defend Galicia and that, in the afternoon, as his head of queues from Madrid pulls his ears, he remembers because it seems that in the far right agenda he doesn't enter to give Galicia more political power. Mr. Feijóo, this could indeed be called a humiliation and a betrayal to the Greeks and to the Greeks. This could be called that! [[Applause]] If they don't let him have more competence, we ask him to exercise what he has. First of all, I ask you to stop the Health Counsellor; secondly, to end the cuts, and an improvement plan of primary care with 200 million euros more this year; thirdly, to recover the primary care agencies with budgets and decision-making capacity; and, fourthly, to put an end to precariousness, call those 6,067 vacant squares in Sergas and listen, Mr Feijóo, listen to the professionals and the street. It's very easy, it's more Galicia and less Madrid.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u5	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón, for your clarity of ideas and, above all, for your coherence. In fact, I think we have to clarify which side we are on. I stand on the side of coexistence, I stand on the side of the Constitution, I defend the equality of all Spaniards, I defend Galician self-government, I defend the state of autonomy; I mean, I defend virtually everything that you attack. You, on the other hand, defend Herri Batasuna — Bildu — and defend Catalan independence — the Republican Left of Catalonia. You will understand, Your Honor, that going in coalition with Herri Batasuna's heirs is her presentation card, and defending the Constitution and the Autonomy Statute is my presentation card. [[Applause]] Your Honor, in the last fifteen days, in which you asked me about health, things haven't changed much in health. There are two versions about health in Galicia. Yours is an unheard of urge for desistixia all the time. Remind me of that monk of Catalan independence, who's been saying for years that Spain has been stealing from us. It's about the same thing you say with public health in Galicia. Then there's our vision. First of all, the vision that we feel proud of the professionals of public health in Galicia, who for these 15 days have continued to undergo transplants, have continued to save lives in the surgeons, have continued to care for people and have continued to prove that we have better health than when you were ruling and that we have one of the best cures in the European regions. It is true that there has been something new in these 15 days: there have been attacks on the ambulances of the Galego Health Service, there has been a burnout of ambulances of the Galego Health Service. Are you going to condemn these kinds of attacks, Mrs. Pontón? Will you, the BNG and his union condemn these kinds of attacks? Is there any connection between these attacks and any union force? Can you, Mrs. Pontón, say here, in front of the people of Vilalba, who condemn these kinds of attacks on Galician health supplies? Mrs. Pontón, you don't like data, you don't like data, you don't like budgets, you don't like professionals, you don't like primary care, you don't care about how we're working on health. I do, and therefore it is an honor to me today to have 10 percent more budget than when you were ruling in full economic goodness. It's an honor to have nothing but 2,300 professionals more than in 2008, when you were in government, 6.5% more. It's an honor to have 150 more professionals in primary care — doctors, both family and pediatricians. I'm proud to have 8% more in nursing than when you were in government, 780 more in nursing. I'm proud to have 72% more surgeons. Yes, Your Honor, you heard him well, and that's why I'm proud to have the minor waiting lists since there's a historic series of the health barometer of the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u7	Look, Your Honor, you can say what you want, as well as the Catalan independentists say that Spain in the clothes, that is, Galicia steals Catalonia. But you, from the point of view of public health, have an objective and an obsession: you are continually disparaging it, constantly lying and falsifying reality. We have another: public health, like all Western public health, is perfect. And we're on it. And that's why we're going to have -- don't worry -- budget for primary care. And that's why we have, within the new structure of comprehensive health management, a hospital director and a primary care director. Ladies and gentlemen, we have fulfilled our commitments. You continue to despise this great ambition, which is to have the best public health in Spain. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u9	Mr. Feijóo, go to the paperboard! We know you don't like to talk about public health and you want to come here to poison the debate. Look, I don't know if it's consistent. You have a very different concept than I have. You say it's consistent. Coherent with what, Mr. Feijóo. Do you think it is consistent to compromise in the morning that we have more competences for Galicia and that in the afternoon, as they call it from Madrid, it embraces and betrays the interests of this country? Tell us about cohabitation, Mr. Feijóo, but it has made it clear to us what is his concept of cohabitation this Sunday going from crochet to the extreme right old-fashioned, racist and machist. That's your concept of coexistence. [[Applause]] Yes, yes, yes, it's their concept of coexistence. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, while you were in Madrid doing selfies with the extreme right and dancing the passage of Manolo Escobar, in this country we were defending public health, the professionals of whom we feel proud and proud because they are denouncing the lies and are denouncing the serious deterioration of public health. Look, this happened this week: "The Sergas admits that he hired doctors without expertise," "The doctors are planning and abandoning primary working groups" -- because they don't see progress and because they don't trust his word," "The Greek health care workers see better future abroad," "The second collapse in the Vigo CAP when they don't cover emergencies." And this was Sunday in Galicia while you were with the far right, a tumultuous cry in the streets of Compostela in defense of public health. Mr. Feijóo, you can't fool everyone all the time. Public health has serious problems. And what is clear is that you have no desire to solve it, because your only obsession is obvious: to be a faithful squire now from your new boss — Mr. Married — and to be a follow-up to that strategy, absolutely against rights, which is putting in place the extreme right and which you embrace. It's a shame that, having the problems we have in Galicia, come here to attack the BNG in this case. Go that way, Mr. Feijó, but the problems of public health are not solved. The health adviser ceases, puts more resources for primary care, an improvement plan of EUR 200 million — because you know, as I know, and as professionals know, that today in primary there are EUR 188 million less than when you arrived, and there are budgets to make it clear — and ends with precariousness in the Greek health system. Because, Mr. Feijóo, while you're busy shooting at the BNG, you know what's going on? There's a lot of people waiting, there's a lot of people who don't have an appointment in primary care, that there's parents and mothers on the street asking for pediatricians for their children and their children. And in the meantime, you come here to show us once again your frivolity. Government, Mr. Feijóo, exercise your powers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Close the question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u11	One way of ruling, Mrs. Pontón, is to tell the Greek the truth. You brought yesterday another one of the lies of nationalism, which is the competition in maritime rescue, competition in maritime rescue that has neither Catalonia nor the Basque Country, which, when you were in the Government, the two-party government was against that transfer. You constantly try to manipulate, just as you do with public health. I repeat to you again: does BNG condemn the attacks on the ambulances of the Galician Health Service? yes or no? Does the BNG condemn burning ambulances at the Galego Health Service? whether or not, Mrs. Pontón? [[Murmurs.]] That's the question we all ask ourselves. You say you defend public health and then shut up when they burn public health ambulances. Yes, Mrs. Pontón! [[Applause]] Yes, Mrs. Pontón! Look, Mrs. Pontón, there's an academic here at Santiago's hospital who writes an article in La Voz de Galicia, which I think you should read: In public health it's not all worth it. Please read it, Mrs. Pontón. It's not all right. It's not worth lying, it's not worth cheating, it's not worth slandering, it's not worth constantly disparaging what 39,000 women and men do every day in public health in our country. You're talking about doctors being hired and some of them didn't have any expertise. Yes, the Bipartite did, too, Mrs. Pontón. And you shut up when it was done? No, it was temporary substitutions where there was no possibility of having a specialist. And the Bipartite did what the rest of the governments did to avoid leaving without health care. You say they abandoned primary care groups, but it turns out that what they finished was the work of primary care groups. In February we have to present the balance sheet of primary care proposals. You ask me to have a primary care manager. I'll tell him I did. He doesn't care. You ask for a primary care budget, and I say yes. He doesn't care. You didn't even ask for it, and we offered stable contracts up to three years until the family doctors and primary-care pediatricians were examined. These contracts come into force in February. We are Spain's first health service with these primary care stability contracts. You're not interested. Mrs. Pontón, you're not interested in the fact that the Greeks are valuing primary care more than ever. And I mean the health barometer of the Ministry of Health. 88.5% of the Greeks positively value primary care; with you, 5% less. And 84.7% of the Greeks positively value emergencies in primary care; with you, 8% less. Mrs. Pontón, what are we accused of improving primary care since we arrived in the Government? Let's move on to this improvement, you're invited to do it. But, Mrs. Pontón, look at us right now, what we want to do is do a health center in Moaña. They're going to facilitate land to make a health center in Moaña, yes or no? That's how we talk, Mrs. Pontón! Moaña's BNG will let us do a health center in Moaña, yes or no? We need land and I'll ask for it again. Mrs. Pontón, what are you laughing at? Do you think it's a joke to make an integral health center in Moaña, where we live 20,000 people? Does that sound like a joke to you? It's just that they're not even able to land to make a health center and now they're here talking about primary care. Look, Mrs Pontón, they've been away from the Health Commission, they're not interested in the Health Committee at all. You know why? Because they have no solid arguments. And I repeat: the repeated lie a thousand times some people create.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u12	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u13	What Spain does steal from, repeated a thousand times by Catalan independenceists, many Catalans believe in. And this constant and continuing contempt of the opposition to public health is convinced that most Greeks don't believe it. That's why, Mrs. Pontón, with all due respect, man, you come to teach me lessons from whom I manifest myself is something surprising. Look, Mrs. Pontón, I will always be in favour of the Spanish Constitution. You're against it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u14	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u15	I will always stand in favour of the Statute of Self-Government. You're against it. I'm always going to stand up for Galicia's constitutional self-government, and you're against it. You'll never see me, Madam Punch, next to Mr. Otegi...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u17	...of Bildu, and of the Republican Left of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u19	Those are the ones that you show up. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u20	Thank you. By mistake I did not justify the non-existence of the plenary session of a Member and a Member; in this case, of Mrs Concepción Burgo and Mr Marcos Cal. Sorry about this mistake. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga of G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the actions planned by the Government of Galicia to equal the level of competence of Galicia with the other historical nationalities
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u21	Question from the Socialist Parliamentary Group through his spokesman, Mr Xoaquín Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u22	Good morning to all and to all. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, after a recent board of assembly you have defended Galicia's historic status, its recognition as a historical nationality, to claim a competitive roof similar to that of Catalonia and the Basque Country. It looks good to us, you know that we share this approach. We have always hoped that our self-government will have those powers which, managed from Galicia, can contribute to improving the living conditions of the Greeks and the Greeks and the progress of our country. We do not advocate that decentralization is always the solution — sometimes yes and sometimes no — or that there is always a need to go further — depending on. We defend a balanced federalism, an egalitarian federalism, which certainly has a bearing, in our conception, within the Constitution and the Statute, but which could also result in a partial reform of both. In any case, it's not about dividing, it's about adding up. And there's a set of powers that all groups in this House are demanding at some point for Galicia because we're probably all convinced that this improves the living conditions of citizens in our country. This includes traffic and citizen security, and includes labour inspection, among other things. These are skills that are already being managed by some other autonomous community. And, in any case, many autonomous communities have collected that possibility in their statute. And what I wonder is why we do not put in place a concerted action by all the political groups present in this House who wish to promote a responsible, sensible self-government agenda that does not introduce divisions between the groups, that is fully within the Constitution and the Statute, but that at the same time enables us to strengthen our autonomy. And I ask you, Mr. Nuñez Feijóo, to turn from words to deeds. By the way, because, when you were in the opposition and the government of Emilio Pérez Touriño tried to do so, it made it impossible to reform the Statute which would raise Galicia's level of competence. Then, with you ruling here and with Mariano Rajoy ruling in Madrid with an absolute majority, no transfer has occurred. The Government of Spain was not very supportive of that and you didn't feel bad about that position. But now you can count on the support of the opposition in Galicia, and there is a receptive attitude in the central government to promote a decentralization and self-government agenda in Galicia. Maybe it's time to do it. Who's blocking it now? What prevents us now from taking that step that would allow our self-government to improve? We have a proposal for a citizen traffic and security law, which we have all voted for. Support her and we'll take one more step. We have also introduced an initiative to mark on a non-closed list, on a flexible list, thirty competences that are included in autonomy statutes and are being managed by some autonomous community. You support this initiative and we will mark a self-government agenda that we can all share. It is the moment of decision, whether we want to expand Galician self-government, according to its recent manifestations, within the Constitution, with wisdom, with responsibility, without any division, or if we let ourselves block by accepting the red lines of forces that do not believe in our self-government, that would prefer to recentralise the country, and that they do not understand that it can be fully German and that this makes a united Spain stronger and allows for better Europe.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u23	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u24	And this is the moment of your decision, Mr. Núñez Feijóo. When's the time if it's not now? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u25	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Leicega, I'm quite in agreement with your contextualization of the matter and I propose, to give you exactly what is each's position, to make some memory. In 2007, this parliamentary group called for the transfer of the freeway from the Atlantic, and you and BNG voted against. In 2008, the Galician Parliament asked for traffic transfers, and Mr Puy and you were asked for them in Madrid. And the Socialist Party in Madrid, in the Government, blocked the transfer of traffic to Galicia. And in 2011, for example, this Government approved a prioritized catalogue of medicines — the Socialist Party in Madrid — and the Socialist Party in Madrid took it to the Constitutional Court. [[Murmurs.]] We changed the Law of Boxes, and the Socialist Party in Madrid took us to the Constitutional Court. Then they gave us the reason in the drug catalogue. So come and teach self-government lessons, Mr. Leicega... none! Mr. Leicega, look, let me read these headlines to you: "Failóo is facing Rajoy for the removal of the debt of autonomy." Another headline: "Feijóo stands firm against debt loss to non-compliant communities." The Socialist Party was in favour of not paying the debt to the autonomous communities who borrowed money from the Government of Spain. And I followed in the position I maintain, in the defense of Galician self-government and in the defence of our powers. Now it turns out, Your Honor, that today's state budgets will be voted on, and in the state budgets everything seems to indicate that the Socialist Party will vote in favour, of course, and probably most of its partners. And in those state budgets, Mr Abalos, Minister for Development, in La Vanguardia says, nothing but — literally —: "The real investment planned for Catalonia grows by 57%." And we're seeing real investment in Galicia decrease by 26%. So the question that we ask ourselves is: Does the Socialist Party now want to talk about smoke curtains while processing the assumption that the investment of Galicia or the Socialist Party also want to talk about smoke curtains while managing that possible agreement with Catalan independence and with the PNV in Euskadi? Mr. Leicega, look, traffic, what do you think if we first ask the 100 police officers who are missing from the police unit? When he ruled the PP, we were transferred 140 cops. Now we're missing 100. Do you want to be serious? Then I propose three initial proposals to open the transfer package. First, we transferred the Atlantic motorway, simply with two questions, according to the Socialist Party: first, that this agreement that you unilaterally signed with Audasa, which increases the cumulative annual toll for twenty years, is paid by state budgets; that is, we do not pay 1,400 million euros more toll for twenty years, a cumulative 1%. [[Applause]] Second transfer, which will transfer to us the money we owe from the funds due to comply with the expenditure rule, the deficit and the public debt in 2018, in 2019 and until the end of the legislation. It's 85 million euros a year, Mr. Leicega. It is provided for in the 2018 budget. Therefore, we will be transferred EUR 177 million to invest in health care and other public services during this year 2019, which is due to us from 2018 —85 — and the 85th of 2019. And third, Mr. Leicega, what do you think if we made amendments in the state budgets equal to the budget we had in 2018? If I don't ask anymore! I'm asking for the same investor effort we had...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u27	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u28	...with the People's Party in Madrid. Mr. Leicega, let's start talking seriously about what interests the Greeks. Let's make the transfer of the money and the skills it owes us, and continue to insist on the pending transfers. That's our proposal, Mr. Leicega. We are not fools, Mr. Leicega. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Fernández Leicega's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u30	Yes, the last thing I missed to hear from you was that of Spain in the clothes, which you say is the one that accuses Catalan independence. Indeed, as you know, there are many issues in which there are differences between the different autonomous communities and the state. [[Applause]] And, as you know, we've always been supporting the German Government in everything that seemed reasonable in relation to this; for example, in what you were talking about the discharge of debt and all these things. Don't teach us lessons because that's where he'll have nothing to say. And here's an initiative in this respect, you'll see how we're going to support it, too. So, nothing like that. [[Applause]] Second question. This can't be used to avoid your responsibility. The transfer of traffic, which you supported years ago in some conditions, let's say, they weren't better than there is now, why won't you support it now? Why don't we build a decentralization agenda, self-government, that we can all share? And these proposals that you make, of course, we are willing to discuss them. Let's sit down, talk and put them in motion, but we all share this. The difference is that while we take initiatives in this direction, you don't do anything. And that position that moves me here doesn't fit into anything, Mr. Feijóo. It doesn't fit into anything! And, look, from the state's general budgets exactly what you're telling me is the amendment that we're registering today and that we're going to discuss within a couple of hours. Because, in order to improve them, they first have to pass their initial processing. If the initial processing happens, let's sit down, let's discuss this with me. [[Applause]] And I'm going to tell you something: if you assure me of the vote of the Welsh Members in Madrid, I'm sure we'll be able to increase investments in Galicia much more than you said. [[Applause]] Much more than you said! [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] And in the end it's easy. I'll ask you two very simple questions. Will you support the traffic claim when you reach this plenary next month? Will you be in favour of promoting a sensible, reasonable, consensual self-government agenda that does not introduce divisions, which is already provided for in the statutes of other autonomous communities, from which we are all in favour in Galicia? yes or no? That's what you have to answer. The rest, as you would say, is a smoke curtain, it's a fun maneuver, but that's probably going to start to be not enough for the Greeks in the next few days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u31	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Close the question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u32	Thank you very much. Mr. Leicega, that "Spain steals us" is a monk of nationalism, and also, in other words, it subscribes to the Socialist Party of Catalonia. Now that socialists ignore us in Galicia I subscribe it. I don't have any problems in subscribing, no problems. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, when you arrived at the Government here in the Bipartite, you were very happy and applauded that in the State budget the investment in Galicia had reached 8%. When he ruled the People's Party in Spain he reached 13%, but he was absolutely insufficient; and now he's down to 6% and he's back to being fantastic. So, exactly, what's this all about, Mr. Leicega? Is it a matter of saying that thanks to the socialists, the Greeks are going to collect the pensions? What a joke! They're about to sink the country! We make the economy grow again, we return to growth, to unemployment decline, and to increase membership in Social Security. And now we owe socialists our pensions? Mr. Leicega, stop taking people's hair off. [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Leicega, let's make it clear. Look, are you guys going to support the amendment in the transfer of the Atlantic Highway that we are going to present at Congress — an amendment simply with two ideas? This agreement that was given to Audasa — a round-traded trade of 1,400 million euros in favour of Audasa, agreed by the Socialist Party in Central Government and that we have to pay the Greeks in fees for 20 consecutive years — are they in favour of the payment of it by who signed it or paid it by the Greeks? That's the first amendment. Second: now that you're lowering the rates in the radials and they're freeing from fees, by the end of the concession, other highways in Spain, does it seem reasonable to you that we are asking for a discount on that motorway transfer, a reduction of 25% of the trips back and forth on the same day? Were they going to support those amendments? Yes or no, Mr. Leicega? The second proposal: will they support compliance with the Budget Act of 2018 and transfer to us the money we owe —85 million euros in 2018, 85 million euros in 2019, 177 million euros in 2019? yes or no? [[Murmurs.]] Third proposal, Mr Leicega — you know that this is very important for transfers to the Greeks — : in the event that Galicia, by complying with the spending rule, ends its budget in surplus, will you approve that that surplus we can spend it on primary care, in hospitals and in education? yes or no? [[Murmurs.]] That's the third proposal. Mr. Leicega, fourth proposal: were they going to restore the money they took from us in the 2019 budget to distribute with their government partners? yes or no? Those are the four proposals, Mr. Leicega. If we move forward in these proposals for transfer, resources and competences, we continue in the following competences. But, Mr. Leicega, don't think we're going to fall into temptation. As I would cordially say, don't change my conversation, Mr. Leicega, don't change my conversation. We're talking about the sad general budget. [[Murmurs.]] Will they change? Yes or no? We're talking about the lamentable agreement with Audasa and that the Greeks pay 1,400 million euros more at stake.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u33	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u34	Are you going to leave that without effect? Yes or no? We're talking about the money we owe from the funds because of the deficit and the expenditure rule. Will they transfer it to us? Yes or no? That's why, Mr. Leicega, don't change my conversation. You're interested in what interests the Socialist Party, but the Socialist Party doesn't care what interests the Greeks. [[Strong murmurers.]] And I'm here to defend the Greeks, Mr. Leicega. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u35	Thank you. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. of En Marea, on the assessment of the Government of Greece regarding the current situation of self-government in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u36	Mr. Villares has the floor,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u37	Good morning. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez, what a short time it took you to dress up as an autonomist he put on 15 days ago! It's seen that he was too big and that he wasn't consistent with his own political biography, which is more owned by an anti-autonomist right and would react than the pose you tried to put on fifteen days ago. It's the history of his political biography in Galicia, from his betrayal to self-government, already seen in the last decade when, as a spokesman for the opposition, he prevented him from going forth with a new status of autonomy; a status of autonomy that he could have us today in the vanguard of the social statutes of the Spanish State, recognizing new rights for people, broadening social rights and, of course, expanding new competences. While you blocked that statistic reform, six autonomous communities reached higher levels of self-government. This wasn't a pose for being a member of the opposition, no. When you arrived at the Government you inaugurated the black decade of our country's autonomy, the black decade in social matters and the black decade in autonomy. In social matters, by the brutal cuts that take us to the Greeks and to the Greeks for these ten years. The most dramatic sample is health cuts. In this very legislation we had to regret the death of a person in an emergency waiting for a doctor who did not exist, with failure to comply with the current legislation. But it wasn't just a black decade in the scope of the cuts, it was also a black decade of autonomy. Because, for ten years, these powers transferred to Galicia! One zero in autonomy, one zero in autonomy, one zero in better well-being for the Greeks and the Greeks, while seven autonomous communities, under the mandate of Mariano Rajoy, did achieve new autonomy. The reason why? Then it will have to be clear your conviction not to believe in autonomy, to believe that autonomy does not improve the well-being of our people. That's right, when last week In Marea presented an interpellation to sharpen their pacts with the extreme right—which, among other things, demand the abolition of Galician autonomy, of Galician autonomy!—you gave a tour to conceal. He said, "No, no, if we are very autonomous and we want the same skills as Catalonia and the Basque Country!" What a short time it took him that disguise! Yesterday the People's Group had an opportunity to pronounce on those pacts, and yesterday the People's Party was afraid. He was afraid to stand on the side of Machism and not on the side of equality, he was afraid to stand on the side of racism and xenophobia and not fundamental rights... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u38	Quiet, please! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u39	...and he was afraid to see them positioned on the side of those who defend the suppression of Galician self-government and not defending Galician self-government. But that's because Abascal and married man called it in, or, rather, because they called it in rows and you had to parade...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u40	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u41	... last Sunday in Columbus along with Falange Española, Home Social and Vox, which is the new extreme right. On Sunday you, as president and as a German, made two bad choices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u42	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u43	As president, he chose to abandon his institutional functions on an international journey to a party demonstration. And, as a Greekman, instead of being in Galicia's demonstration defending public health, in the end of the cuts, and once ending waiting lists and emergency collapses, you chose to be in the manifestation of hatred, those who call for the suppression of Galicia's autonomy, those who ask for measures to recover and encourage machismo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u44	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u45	...and those who demand racism and xenophobia. Mr. President, you are very free to defend this as a citizen, but we have to tell you something very clear: you cannot serve Falance and Galicia at the same time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u46	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u47	You're very moderate, Mr. Villares. [[Laughter]] Certainly, a political leader like you, who was a part of the Constitution, is very moderate lately. Keep insisting on that kind of disqualification that disqualifies you. It is necessary to make clear what is meant by self-government. Look, for self-government, do you understand self-determination, yes or no? You're in favor of self-determination, that is, of Galicia's independence, yes or no? Not us, not us. Therefore, this German nationalist populism of the Tides of Podemos is following up on its partners — if they still have a partner — outside Galicia in favor of self-determination. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Are you in favor of Galicia's self-determination, Galicia's independence, yes or no? He won't find me there. Now, in self-government, lesson none, Mr. Villares. Look, we are, along with Euskadi and Navarre, the only autonomous community that has maintained its self-government in the last six years, the only one. We are the only autonomous community that has not been intervened by the Government of Spain. We were the only autonomous community that didn't ask for a potato for payment to suppliers or the Autonomic Liquidity Fund. I mean, we kept our financial autonomy. And maintaining our financial autonomy we fully maintain the country's self-government. [[Applause]] Yes, I have no problem with being remembered as the president who kept Galician autonomy standing when the rest of the autonomous communities needed permission to pay an invoice. And why? [[Murmurs.]] Because we didn't listen to the Tide. Because we were asked to go to the Autonomic Liquidity Fund — they will remember that permanent and continuing monk. It turns out that the Autonomic Liquidity Fund was the first thing it did to intervene in the accounts of the autonomous community, submit to the treasury of the central government and ask the Ministry of Turnover for authorization to pay one to one of Galicia's bills. That's why, Mr. Villares, I'm proud to keep Galician self-government intact and armored during the economic crisis and not to listen to anyone. [[Applause]] But, Mr. Villares, as you were then engaged in complying with the Constitution and now you are engaged in non-compliance, you don't know that for the last eight years there have been no transfers in Spain. Well, I lie, there were two transfers. One was Andalusia, the staff of the Basic General Defense Hospital -- that's already been transferred to Galicia, the personnel of the Military Hospital in Ferrol. And there was another: the issue of the title of administrative manager, Valencia — that was already transferred to Galicia in 1996 —. [[Murmurs.]] I mean, in the last eight years there have been no transfers to autonomous communities and now it turns out that there is no transfer in any autonomous community Mr Feijóo has. But, Mr. Villares, why don't you go back to the common sense and the military in the Constitution? At least I wouldn't do the ridiculous thing, and at least you'd have a predictable biography. Mr. Villares, the question is: are you going to be the architects of the state budget that lower investments in Galicia by 30%? yes or no? Or as a result that Left Republican and PdeCAT can vote today rather than the budget, are you now going to vote than not? Mr Villares, within his curriculum, said that he, together with other Members, had interrupted a free and secret ballot in his political formation. Secondly, he said that, along with other Members, he proposed a motion of censure and put a president in the Government of Spain who twice lost the elections and that the first budget he presented is a real outrage to the Autonomous Community, with an investment of 26% reduced by 57% against increases of 57%...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u48	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u49	...in other autonomous communities. That's his contribution to Galician self-government. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u50	Thank you very much. Mr. Villares' reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u51	When you look at Wikipedia, Mr. Núñez, you'll see that Núñez Feijóo will say: That president of the Galician Union said that to do well he died of hepatitis C disease at the pharmacy. [[Strong murmurers.]] And in the second sense, it's said by that president of the board that he may have hired sufficient health personnel, he didn't do it in emergency services and that's why patients died on the Road. [[Murmurs.]] That's your resume as a result of this fantastic letter of presentation that you've just made defense of your financial autonomy for these ten years. Those are the consequences of their cuts, those are the consequences of treating people as if they were numbers, as if they didn't matter, as if they weren't people. And that can't be. Look, yesterday the People's Party got scared. And as you're talking about the Constitution, I'm going to ask you if you think you're contrary to the Constitution the following three proposals that we submitted yesterday to the consideration of this House and its group. The first was, "Defencing in all political and institutional spaces the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and rejecting covenants with political formations that promote social confrontation, questioning the fundamental principles of coexistence and encouraging discrimination and hatred of the different as a way to make politics." Mr. Núñez, was it so difficult to accept this proposal to defend fundamental rights? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The one from the Universal Declaration of the United Nations, Mr. Trenor, read it, which would do you good. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Second proposal: "Defensing the right to equality between women and men and recognizing the need for policies of positive discrimination and fighting against macho violence, rejecting pacts with negationist political forces of the existence of the patriarchate." Mr. Núñez, your parliamentary group voted against. You weren't. Do you also vote against this? And the third, which had a fairly simple statement: "defending Galician self-government by rejecting agreements with political forces that call for the removal of our autonomy." Well, now in the response shift you have three minutes, and in three minutes you can say "yes" or "no." Say yes to equality, to fundamental rights and to Galician autonomy, or say no. And then, in that case, he'll be positioned with Vox, with the extreme right...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u52	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u53	...with machismo, racism, supremacism and the suppression of autonomy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u54	Thank you, Mr. Villares. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] He'll answer the president of the board. Who answers, it's the president of the board. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u55	Investing 130 million euros in the treatments of hepatitis C and curing 7,800 affected... I'm very pleased to take this qualification you give me. O Allah! [[Applause]] You keep on exasperating. Look, Mr. Villares, it's very difficult to take it seriously for you, because yesterday, on the proposal of the Socialist Party, we have agreed to all the House's groups the position on equality, which you don't want people to find out about. The same way BNG wants people not to know that maritime rescue has no autonomous community, and that, in addition, when BNG was in the Government it voted against that transfer. But you don't mind, you're telling me about the Declaration of Human Rights, but, coming from this parliamentary group, a parliamentary group, Your Honor, which is defending Maduro in Venezuela, can a Bolivarian parliamentary group really talk about the Declaration of Human Rights? Can you really talk about the Declaration of Human Rights, Your Honor? [[Applause]] Can you teach a lesson about the People's Party having to defend human rights? Mr. Villares, what a pity that you are no longer a soldier in the Constitution! Too bad, Your Honor, that the Greeks see a person like you saying the barbarities he says per minute! Look, I repeat again that the self-government that we have kept armored during the economic crisis has given Galicia a good result. You know why? Because each of the powers that Galicia has managed we manage them better than the central government. Yes, we have achieved better results than the central government in economic growth, in exports, in terms of unemployment, in the industrial production index. Ladies and gentlemen, we work better than the Central Government, we've been loyal to the Constitution, we don't owe a kick to the Central Government and we've kept our autonomy deep. The board has ruled for all, Your Honor, and the current central government only rules for some. [[Applause]] But, Mr. Villares, I don't have to ask permission to manifest myself either to the Tides of Podemos or to the nationalists or to the independentists. I'm not Pedro Sánchez. No, no, neither do you or Galicia nor I owe you anything, nothing. [[Murmurs.]] And Spain also owes nothing to Catalan independenceists, the Tides of Podemos and President Sánchez. What's clear, we don't owe you anything to independence or to anyone. If you insist on calling us talkers, come on! He's insulting most of Galicia's absolute majority. Do you think most of Galicia's absolute majority votes to Falange, Mr. Villares? What a lack of rigour, what a lack of respect you have for the Greeks! Just like the Members who accompany you. [[Strong murmurers.]] What a disrespect!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u56	I'm sorry, president. President, excuse me for a second. Mr. Lago, I'll call you in order for a second time, and that means... No, sorry, interrupt. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And this is repetitive. If I have to call him back to order, I have to kick him out, I warn you. Yes, yes, you have a call to order. [[Strong murmurers.]] [[Strong murmurers.]] No, sorry, it's interrupting. I'm not talking about it. It's just interrupting. Call Mr. Lago's order. Second... [[Strong murmurers.]] Mr. Sánchez, be quiet. Silence! Silence! Go on, president. [[Strong murmurers.]] Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He didn't interrupt. No, he didn't interrupt. Silence! President, continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u57	For a long time in Spain the Democrats were insulted by radical and extremist positions. Now it happens that also the Democratic President of Galicia is insulted from extremist and radical positions. The story is repeated, Your Honor, but it will not shake my pulse to continue to defend the Constitution, the Statute of Self-Government and Self-Government. But, ladies and gentlemen, it turns out that the only utility of the Tide of Podemos is to support a president who decreases investments in Galicia by 30% with his budget, while increasing by 60% in other communities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u58	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u59	Ladies and gentlemen of the Tides of Podemos, I understand that it bothers you to tell them that you are a Bolivarian group, but it is the reality of things. I still have on my retina that T-shirt: "Chávez, I swear, I'll vote for Maduro" That's nothing but the most institutionally considered Member of this parliamentary group in the Greek Parliament. And that's why, Your Honor, those who asked us to ask the FLA and those who asked us to submit to the central government of Madrid, are now the ones who teach those banners simply to hide their deplorable economic position.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u60	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u61	But the subject is very easy. You were Galicia's defense at the Congress of Deputies, and we see the results. You would rule better than no one in the cities, and we see the results. You were the popular unit. You represented popular unity, remember? And you have difficulty representing yourself in the group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u62	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u63	Your Honor, nothing but that you were the supposed great leader of all this, to defend Galicia at the Congress of Deputies, to manage cities and popular unity properly.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u64	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u65	You were the great leader of all this. I'm busy at four o'clock, ladies!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u66	Thank you, your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u67	Four of four! Mr. Villares, you return to the Constitution, because otherwise you will have difficulty in the future. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u68	Thank you very much, President. We continue with the development of the agenda. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other Members, on the implementation by the Greek Government of the hemodynamics service 24 hours a day at the University Hospital Complex of Ourense
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u69	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u70	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u71	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. It's a pity the health adviser had fled, escaped from this whole, the truth, right now, right now, right now that we're going to talk, we believe, of a very important subject. [[Applause]] This initiative deals with the implementation of the 24-hour hemodynamics service in Ourense, the only province where it has not yet been implemented nor is it expected to be implemented. But it's a shame I'm leaving because this initiative is about something else, ladies and gentlemen. This initiative deals with something really important: that all orensans and orensas can have equal access to public health services in the same conditions as the rest of the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Applause]] This initiative, ladies and gentlemen, also speaks of justice, a public, universal and free health ruled under the criteria of equity, which socialists have been defending for so long. We've been defending him in the face of unfulfilled promises, in the face of lies, in the face of excuses from Mr. Feijóo's government, the same ones that took not only to have this service 24 hours but not to have a pediatric surgery service either, to remove it itself, 24 hours in Ourense. And they delayed the implementation of essential health infrastructures both for the city and for the province, and they eliminated the sanitary areas and have in a limited position the hospitals of Verín and Valdeorras. Until a couple of weeks ago we shared the shameful merit of being the poor brothers of hemodynamics with the neighbors and neighbors of Lugo. When we heard the Health Counsellor announce that this service was going to be implemented 24 hours ago, in Ourense we asked ourselves, "When are we in Ourense?" After so many years of struggle, ladies and gentlemen, of being treated as liars, as alarmists, today I want, on behalf of the Socialist Group, to bless the neighborhood of Lugo, all the associations that have been fighting for so long for the implementation of this service. And let me also congratulate, in particular, my colleagues and colleagues in the province of Lugo; above all, their mayor and the president of the Parliament, who have been at the forefront of this struggle all this time, of a struggle that wanted something as logical as our neighbors and neighbors of Lugo had the same rights as those of the Coruña and those of Pontevedra. [[Applause]] Because, ladies and gentlemen, while in Lugo there were institutional representatives of the Socialist Party defending hemodynamics at 24 hours, in Ourense there was a president of the MP and a mayor complicit in this marginality to which Mr Feijóo has submitted us. [[Applause]] Because the president of the Galician board only remembers Ourense when the elections come. Then he becomes a child of the Pearls. But while he's ruling, what his health policies are doing is denying and mistreating the province. On the contrary, since the PSdEG we've been claiming hemodynamics for 24 hours for Ourense, in every budget project, with amendments... as far as legislation is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, this is the fifth time the Socialist Group brings this issue to this House. In the previous four, either the People's Party voted against or the Government stood against the deployment. In fact, this same initiative was discussed almost a year ago on 28 February 2018 in Commission 5a. The People's Party voted against. Afterwards, five months later, my companion, Mr. Torrado, brought a motion containing this point. The People's Party voted against again. And why do we insist so much? Why are we being so stubborn about this? We are because in Ourense we lead the mortality rate for myocardial infarction, 59.7%, 20 points more than the state average, and three times more mortality than the Crown and Pontevedra. Because we have an hour's rate above the treatment of the coronary crisis, 50 minutes more than in the Coruña and Pontevedra. Well, this service is running until 22 o'clock. After it was announced in February 2018, it took seven months from the announcement until it started. We think it's important that you set 24 hours. This was supposed to prevent complications in acute coronary syndromes, decrease the incidence of cardiovascular pathologies, decrease mortality because of this, ladies and gentlemen. We don't ask for a Ferrari in Ourense what we're asking for is a basic health service. [[Applause]] One might then think that, after so much request, the only thing we needed was to entrust us to Santa Rita, the patron of the impossible, in order to change the position of the People's Party. But it turns out that suddenly, without miracles — because we don't believe in them — the People's Party takes an initiative by means of urgency, includes an amendment to this initiative — something it has never done — and we, the first thing we want, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is to welcome them to this issue so much that we have been fighting for so long. On the emergency route, ten years after the implementation of the Hemodynamic Service in Ourense, ten years after Mr. Tourinño's government had waged for the implementation of this service, because until then, with Mr. Fraga's Government, the oresans and the oressas had to go to a private medical clinic in the city that was being made of gold on account of the oresansans and the oressas and all the Greeks and the Greeks. We know why they do it, and we've already said it in this House. We know why you hide by changing that position. They do it because you're trying to save the only mayor of the seven cities in Greece from political drowning. They're because the Ourense government team every day looks more like the Titanic orchestra, playing the last piece before its political sinking. But look, what will be the situation, what this mayor will be, so that he doesn't even thank the parliamentary group for the act. How will this mayor be so that when he learns that the Socialist Group brings an initiative that will improve no less than the survival of the oresans and the oresans, he reacts to the reaction of the city's regent by insulting us, charging against us. Don't you want the mayor of Ourense to increase the percentage of survival by the orensans and the orensas? Do you want them to continue failing the goldsmiths and the goldsmiths on the way to Vigo? What irresponsibility, gentlemen! [[Applause]] What a tremendous irresponsibility! We don't expect you to do anything. We no longer expect the mayor of Ourense to do anything at all. We've been playing this game since minute one. For one minute we've been on this subject. You're on your way in the time of discount. But the mayor of Ourense is still sitting on the bench and continues without supporting a claim that is essential to the city and that is also so, ladies and gentlemen, to the province. We don't care what they do, all we ask them to do is to do it, and to do it once and for all, to stop rushing, to stop stretching this subject, because we believe that living or dying, gentlemen, can't depend on the postal code. If a neighbor of Gudinho's infarct morning tonight, they'd have to spend three hours to be cared for in Vigo. And he would have double discrimination, because he was born in Ourense province and did it in rural areas. We've been negotiating this initiative for many hours, many hours, even days, I dare say. I ask you to look up to a deal because the lives of many people are at stake. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, instead of declaring themselves defenders of life to clarify women's rights, I today, on behalf of the Socialist Group, ask them to declare themselves defenders of the right to life of the orensans and the orensas and to do so by supporting and approving this initiative, which we consider to be very important. Today, he said an article published in the newspaper La Région, written by Xabier Blanco, that "To legislate and govern it is convenient to have a good head and a better heart." I think today, at last and once for all, we have to have a good head and a better heart. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez-Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. Mrs. Blanco, be assured that with the same approach as the hemodynamics put in Lugo, having nothing to do with the shirts put on by mayors, the presidents of the parliament, or with the demands of the neighboring associations, it will be done in Ourense. The decision has nothing to do with mayors, don't do demagogy, please, on a subject as serious as this. It's a subject that affects the golden citizenship, and I, as a goldess, really feel disgusted with that approach. [[Applause]] The decision is taken by the technicians and professionals of the Regaliam Commission, which I shall begin to explain. It's a health decision, it's not a political decision, Mrs. Blanco. Getting into the initiative that matters to us and talking about hemodynamics, we still think it's a subject -- as I said -- very important for the Orensian citizenship and we want to reach an agreement, because we have a heart and we are also part of that citizenship, and although it was pure selfishness, we're interested that Hemodynamics is in Ourense working twenty-four hours. But I have to tell you that the data we have at this moment are not exactly what you expose to the initiative. Actually, the rates you're talking about are gross rates, and we're talking about adjusted rates, compared to European population according to age, and at that rate Ourense has 33.5, which is similar to Lugo and Coruña, and has a downward trend; it goes from 69.5 in 2000, to a rate of 33.5 in 2016. There are many fewer deaths, but, of course, I wish there had been none! Thirty-day mortality data in Galicia are far below what the Spanish Society of Cardiology recommends, which is at 5%, and Galicia is at 3.5%. In addition to all this, "Galice has the second best survival rate in infarction." "Galice leads the decline in cardiovascular mortality." The rate of cardiovascular mortality by autonomous communities in 2017 — the latest data available — shows that Galicia is three points below the national average. "The CHUS achieves Spain's lowest rate of infarction death." As President Feijóo said this morning, public health isn't worth everything. Your Honor, the CHUS Cardiology Service has just received, for the fifth consecutive time, the best prize in classes in cardiology. Greek health isn't exactly how you draw it, though, of course, we have to improve. We cannot forget — and I cannot forget — the work we've been doing for so many years until we get to where we are. The same President of Parliament, Mr. Santalices, presented in this House a non-legislative proposal in 2014 urging precisely the creation of a register that did not exist anywhere in Spain; a register of the Italian domain to collect information on the morbidity and mortality of acute myocardial infarction with data provided directly by the Greek hospitals and by the 061; and an order in which Regaliam was built, of what I was talking about at the beginning of my intervention. A follow-up commission was created consisting of Sergas staff, 061 staff and cardiologists appointed by the heads of service of the seven Greek hospitals. The commission does what it does is to evaluate the data that the hospitals are looking through strictly technical criteria, and their reports are consensual and signed by all their members. What I was saying: technical decision, health decision, no political decision. The Regaliam showed very important data regarding the number of chaos, the incidence by 100,000 inhabitants, the mortality by infarction, the times of access to anxioplasty, to be able to distribute resources according to care needs. And in this situation, once the Lugo and Ourense Hemodynamics Chambers were installed, the commission valued extending the coverage to 22 hours; and the committee formed by experts is the one that decides that enlargement. In Lugo they started operating in February 2018, a year ago. Ourense began in September 2018. We recently learned that Regaliam's commission, after assessing this operation of the room and taking into account the very important training of multidisciplinary teams, allowed this coverage to become operational twenty-four hours. Once again it is the commission you decide on, Mrs Blanco. We know that anxioplasty is a very complex technique, which is very important for training staff and also for training, the hand, that the surgeons say, "make a hand." For all this, and given the importance of this issue, in which we agree that it is absolutely important for the citizenship of Ourense, we present an amendment with a positive and constructive sense. First: "That after the appropriate evaluation by the Commission Regaliam to the year of operation of the time extension, if so determined, it is established in the Hospital Complex of Ourense a model of assistance that guarantees assistance in the Hemodynamic Area during the twenty-four hours, all this during the year 2019." Second: "Initiate the appropriate mechanisms to address the formation of multidisciplinary teams in the Ourense Hemodynamics Area for the commencement of activities as soon as possible, all of this within 2019." We hope, Mr President, that we will actually reach an agreement, Mrs Blanco, because we are in favour of, if the health conditions so require and the commission so advises, the Hemodynamics in Ourense works twenty-four hours. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u74	Thank you, Mrs Vispo. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u75	Good morning. Mrs Vispo, every time you have less credibility, and not just because they've been bothering this issue for a decade now, but it's no longer coming, Mrs Blanco, the counsellor for this debate, who could well stay half an hour longer, but that much of the debate wasn't even half the Members of the Ourense People's Party. The main problem is that you just come to listen to yourself, even came here to be offended by Mrs Vispo that this was not a question that is heeded by mayors, by demand for neighbourhood and by the demand of professional collectives, which is already the top of the crowds. Listening to yourself is the only thing coming to this Parliament, and there they start their problems and, unfortunately, ours as well. The story of the 24-hour Hemodynamics demand in Ourense is the endless history; the endless history also of the real disgrace of the People's Party, and also the demonstration of the few who have them valid to the people and to the Americans having so many institutions dominated by the People's Party. We've recently been served by this House of Ourense, which is a chaplain of the absolute majority of the People's Party in the Galician Union, when it's no use for you to defend the interests of the oransans, or for us to stop being the queue, in terms of health, in our country. Nor is it for us to have a mayor, the most populous place in the whole province, ruled by the People's Party, by a former advisor who has more or less the same appreciation for this claim than in the Greek language: zero, zero! A mayor — as has already been said here — is more concerned that the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Block of Wales do our work and we betray to this House this demand for citizenship of Ourense than by fighting for its neighbours and neighbours to have the same health rights as any other Greek and Galician; and that, instead of asking their Government for explanations for this abandonment, he commits himself literally to saying that we are playing a political game. [[Applause]] But what a shame that is! What a shame that you have continued here, Mrs Vispo! It's a coat of hair. Moreover, you know that this debate is not new, it is not the first time that it reaches this Parliament, but neither in this legislation, nor in the previous, nor in the former, do you carry two and a half legislatures by disregarding this demand and without the slightest humility. It must be remembered that this service began in the hospital of Ourense in 2008, when it ruled this terrifying Government of coalition between the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Block of Wales, and then to the health spokesman of the People's Party, which we also have today presiding over this House, it seemed little to you that way to initiate the service. It seemed little to him, but eleven years later, where did we get here? The question is that eleven years later all the steps that have been taken were not on the initiative of the People's Party, they were the result of social mobilization and political mobilization, so they shouldn't come here to despise it. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Protests in Lugo, protests in Ourense, we must also remember a popular legislative initiative of more than 40,000 signatures — in this case Lugo— that you perverted from the first to the last comma. After a lot of struggle, the neighbors and neighbors of Lugo have just got this service, and since the BNG we congratulate them, but we have to regret that, once again, Ourense we are the ones left behind. And, of course, what the voices and voices of the People's Party should be doing is to defend that all Greeks and Greeks are equal and not continue to discriminate against Ourense. Today we see an attic of rectification between so much noise in Ourense. But it also seems that the reasons are a little dirty; it's not that they finally get into reason and recognize that no one chooses what schedule he has an attack on the heart, but rather they're a little nervous about those escape routes that they have in the government of Ourense and also nervous and nervous about the historic mobilization that we saw this Sunday, because he sees that citizenship is full and that he won't allow them to continue with this policy of health demolition. But, of course, for us, it's a correction that's late and we'll only give it for valid if a date proposal arrives. Today the Galego Nationalist Block has a purpose in this plenary, and we have to go out with a month, with a date of horizon for hemodynamics 24 hours in Ourense. There's no technical apology, it's a political decision. There's not one scientific argument that claims that it's best not to have hemodynamics 24 hours that you have it, it's that way. And on top of ourense is the highest average age in Galicia, above and above the half of Galician and above the state average. Also above the average of Galician and state averages the rate of infarction mortality; in 2017, 142 people died for this cause. It is obvious that not all of them could have been saved with this service, but the question that an advanced society would ask is that we could have done everything possible? And the answer is that you're not doing everything you can with you, the answer is that you don't; we must therefore put on this service that can save lives in the future. That's the attitude of an advanced society, the advanced society that we also want for the oransansans, and not to say that as ten years ago more people were dying for this cause, we're going to conform, because, with the demographic decline we're taking, a moment will come when, if there is no one in Ourense, no one will die, Mrs Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u76	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u77	So we — we insist — want a firm commitment from the German Government, not a promise of: yes, yes, yes, yes, until the May elections pass, and then keep waiting for him to arrive and have to go back out again into the street. So we aspire and will be facilitators and facilitators of a consensus but with a clear commitment: no more demagogy and no more discrimination against the people and the people of our country, because what we are asking is to have the same health guarantees...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u78	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u79	...that any Greek or gallega...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u80	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u81	...and that's a question of human life...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u83	...we're not talking...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u84	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u85	...to receive a road.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u86	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Miranda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u87	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. Ethics and medicine must never turn their backs. Without ethics, medicine promotes inequality. Even the greatest medical advance has to be corrected with equity criteria. A person who lives in the Atlantic arc is in a situation of health inequality as well by the distribution of resources, by the socio-economic issue and by the distance to the health centres; then we're talking about rural. Everyone knows the importance of early diagnosis and immediate treatment of acute coronary syndrome, which in argot we call — Mr. Centeno — needle-bearing time, vital to prognosis. I'm talking about the time since a thrombo has been installed in a coronary artery until anxioplasty is done; to avoid myocardial damage and to avoid death, those are the keys. Ourense's PP now remembers. Progaliam was trying to improve the prognosis of myocardial infarction, but it failed to achieve it fairly because the time of repercussion depends very much on the origin of the patient, and Ourense never prioritized himself. Another inequality? That of the genre, that of which you don't like to talk to. It's more than documented that women are diagnosed and treated much later than men of a myocardial infarction. Study, ladies and gentlemen, the patriarchal business. If they don't know, before they blow like another day, they inform themselves. Patients diagnosed with extrahospital infarction, or in hospitals without hemodynamics, must be transferred immediately, and safely, by medical ambulances to reference centers. I speak of the Coruña, Vigo and Santiago twenty-four hours; of Lugo, for now, from 8 to 22 daily; and of Ourense, from 8 to 22 working days only. Our territory is scattered, rural and aging, and the province of Ourense more. And these factors already affect themselves in a phenomenon of inequality in attention. To compensate for this in terms of distributive justice, we must introduce corrective criteria in the distribution of resources, and one of these resources must be the extension of hemodynamics in Ourense at twenty-four hours. This is if we aspire to ensure that the survival of a person infarction in Ourense is the same as that of the rest of the territory. We talked about Ourense at night, but we could also refer to other peripheral regions; for example, a patient in Ortegal, which is derived from Ferrol and, in turn, the Coruña, and this takes at least a hundred miles and a very valuable time. A man from Veiga, from Valdeorras, starts with an agony about the middle of a Saturday night, is collected in an ambulance that transfers him to the boat, where he is diagnosed and sent to Ourense, and, in turn, has to be derived from Álvaro Cunqueiro in Vigo; this means an average of between four and five hours of delay, and four hours of cardiac ischemia involve a lot of unacceptable risks. What happens when you need a helicopter? They only work from garden to sunset, in daylight. In summer, it could work for sixteen hours of light, but, thanks to the cuts, it only works twelve years ago; another evil management of the People's Party. And this has no vision of improvement, because the 061 agreement with helicopters is also about irregularities. Look, Mrs Vispo, we don't have that in mind as to whether catheterism is effective. It's been known for scientific evidence for some time now that it is. The amendment to the PP is an excuse to make time because in Ourense they don't have cardiologies that make catheterization from 10 a.m. to 8 a.m. And to do it from 8 in the morning to 10 in the evening, you have to bring them from Vigo. They don't have them because of Sergas' terrible human resources management policy, once again. We know, we know! And what you decide here today will not be binding, we know it too. We'll vote in favour knowing it's a lighthouse because PP has no resources to implement it. We know, we're conscious. Again, Sergas's staff policy in an interview. The People's Party, which is the one who manages public health, allows an aggravating between areas and between people, between the Greeks and the Greeks. And it allows people to die knowing perfectly how to avoid it. Perhaps in Ourense he trusts other guarantees of fidelity to the vote, I refer to the customer network of the Baltars and other pieces with which the barrete has not just broken. You see profitability in electoral terms, yes, yes, yes, yes. Don't peripheral patients deserve the same treatment, PP gentlemen? Are you so sure of some feuds that you're being sloppy to such an extent? Even if they're trying to hide it, PP gentlemen, the people of Wales are talking loud and clear to them and telling them that they don't serve their health policy. They did this Sunday in Quintana. Maybe they didn't find out because you were in Madrid and the subsidised press just talked about it. They were told they need pediatricians, they need family doctors, they need decent emergencies and they need waiting lists. And today they're also told that they need a hemodynamics with equity. Focus on yourself, PP gentlemen, because flirting with the ultra-right and looking both toward Madrid is spooking you from looking around the country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Miranda. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u89	Thank you, President. Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo, look, I am very proud that my colleagues and colleagues in Lugo had put on shirts to defend the hemodynamics. I'm very proud that the oransansans and the orensas came for all the reasons I told Santiago to defend public health. [[Applause]] I am very proud that in Santiago many of us have been defending my companion Ernest Lluch's legacy. I don't know if you can be proud to be defending Falange's legacy in Columbus, which I certainly don't know, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. I don't understand. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u90	That's clear enough that you don't. Retired.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u91	I don't understand. Honestly, I don't understand. [[Applause]] Get away from me! [[Applause]] You said here today that as an oransa has disgusted you with my intervention. He didn't resent her for all this time that we had not implemented a Hemodynamics Service at the time of the rest of the provinces, but he resented my intervention. Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo, it's us, it's our family, it's our neighbors and neighbors who will benefit from this measure. It is all these people too — those who can be seen from now on benefited — who have suffered the neglect of Mr Feijóo's Government and leave it on this subject. Because, look, it always happens the same!, this talk about Ourense... you end up talking about another place, and you end up talking about the Hospital Complex of Santiago, of the CHUS. Great professionals, I know from personal experience as well. Great professionals! Listen to us, because three years ago, the chief of staff said, "We need hemodynamics 24 hours in Lugo and Ourense." The head of service at the Santiago Hospital Complex. Listen to him! Listen to him! Look, don't hide behind Regaliam. Don't come for an excuse, please, that we've been making a lot of progress these days. Don't let this deal get in the way! Let me get you out of here. They don't hide, because the Health Counsellor himself makes statements saying when it has to be implemented or not: "Today it is discarded to extend the Hemodynamics 24 hours in Lugo and Ourense", April 24, 2016, The Voice of Galicia. Is it a political decision or is it a medical decision? Because it's a political decision from the moment the health adviser gets politically positioned. It's a political decision to delay these years, because the professionals themselves have just told you that they are taking advantage of and requesting the implementation of that service. If it was a political decision to delay it, why can't it be a political decision to put it into effect, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo? Why? [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I'm done, president. If I may, I'd like to read the transaction proposal. I repeat, it took a long time, a lot of effort. I don't know if we can reach an agreement or not, but I do want to thank the spokesmen of all the groups — including you, Mrs Rodríguez-Vispo — for the willingness during these days, for the ability to negotiate, for the flexibility of the positions. And also to my parliamentary group for allowing us to simplify a proposal that we've been insisting on for a long time, too. The proposal would be as follows: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to strengthen the Cardiology Unit of the Ourense Hospital Complex, ensuring the training and training of the multidisciplinary team so that before September 2019 a model will be put in place that ensures the care delivery in the Hemodynamics Room for 24 hours." I humbly believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a very important agreement. I think, ladies and gentlemen, it's a historic opportunity for a claim that's been put on the table for many years by the oresans and the oress. I repeat, the height of sight, the head and the heart because, of course — I repeat — is a historical opportunity. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr Antón Sánchez García and Mr Marcos Cal Ogango, on the demand by the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the protection of the inclusion of the Vigo-Porto connection in the Atlantic corridor, within the process of reforming EU regulations 1315/2013 and 1316/2013, of Parliament and the European Council
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u93	No amendments were tabled. Mr Sánchez has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u94	Good morning. For me the main problem is not just to share the Colon Square with Falange, is that one, if you close your eyes and listen to Mr. Casado, thinks you're listening to Santiago Abascal or the people of Falange. That's the main problem, what you say, not just who shares spaces with. I bring here the debate on a matter that is transcendent to us. I know, moreover, that we have brought him to committee on several occasions. I know that there have been unanimous agreements in this matter in the 2nd Infrastructure Commission. But the reason for bringing it to the full is because we are facing a decisive moment in the processing that can end with the inclusion of the Vigo-Porto connection in the Atlantic Corridor and that can facilitate a horizon where there is funding and facilities to modernize railway lines for commodities, to improve connections of the ports of Greece, to make a port policy based on planning, specialization and improving competitiveness. We are at a decisive moment and, therefore, this is not a question of procedure, which we have already reached an agreement in Commission 2a, but it is a matter of insisting as Parliament on a matter which we believe will be and must be, rather, a strategic line in the infrastructures of this country, surprisingly forgotten or separated from the priorities of governments in recent decades, as forgetting that our main foreign market is northern Portugal, forgetting that Galicia, if it intensifys relations and connections with northern Portugal, has an area of 6 million people with great economic dynamism, has enormous strategic potential. This has been forgotten for many years in the infrastructure policy of successive governments, prioritising passenger connections to the Meseta at high speed and forgetting both the connection with Europe and the connection with Portugal. Therefore, this strategic line for the future also depends, of course, on our having access to sufficient funding in Europe to carry out projects which, on the other hand, are not being carried out. It's another of the issues that governments have to make. Both the Greek and the Spanish state, in addition to supporting the inclusion of the Vigo-Porto connection in the Atlantic Corridor, have to work on projects to improve the connection of the Greek ports, to improve the competitiveness of the railway line with Porto, and they have to do so already, because access to this financing, if it is finally produced, will have to take another step, which is competition with other projects at European level to access financing. And if we don't count on good projects, we won't be able to access that funding. The procedure for the inclusion of the Vigo-Porto connection is in its final stretch. Last year and a half, surprisingly Galicia was excluded from the Atlantic Corridor, Galicia was off the map of communications from European commodities. In July 2018, the Commission of the European Union approved the proposal for the integration of Galicia into the Atlantic Corridor, which represented a great news and the repair of this nonsense that it was the total exclusion of Galicia from the European freight corridor network. That connection to the Atlantic Corridor is fundamental, but we saw at that time that there were connections from Portugal by the Spanish State, two; that there was a connection from Galicia to the Spanish State, one, but there was no connection between Galicia and Portugal. That's why we brought a non-law proposal in September to request that Galicia's connection with Portugal enter the Atlantic Corridor. We also insist not only on this, but on the fact that the German and Spanish governments did not take this action as a priority. I'm putting two examples. The European Committee of the Regions has tabled a number of amendments to the regulations to reform the Connect Europe mechanism and trans-European transport networks. In this European Committee of the Regions, the two members of the Germans who are Mr Feijóo and Mr Abel Caballero, and no amendment was tabled by either of these two persons, by the president of the Union, by no proposal to include the Vigo-Porto connection. On the other hand, the Spanish Government of Mr Sánchez, in the Council of the European Union two months ago, did not propose the inclusion of the Vigo-Porto connection. This is a procedure that runs parallel to the end point. First there is a procedure in the European Parliament which is already completed and approved. The European Parliament approved the inclusion of this connection in the Atlantic Corridor. But there is another one, which is the work of the member states, which is on the Council of the European Union, where it has not been discussed because the inclusion of the Vigo-Porto connection has not been proposed. So what is missing now is that the Spanish Government — now yes — works for the inclusion of this connection. That is the last push that I think we have to help give from this Parliament. We think it is surprising that only at the last moment Mr. Feijóo joined a claim as strategic for this country as that meeting with the presidents of the Cantabrian Cornix. We think it is surprising that, when we first put this into committee, the People's Party did not have a definite position, which did not know the advantages of the inclusion of the Vigo-Port connection in the Atlantic Corridor, because, I say, you can't be as smart as this is strategic for Galicia. The port of Legions is competing, it's eating market share, because it has a government behind it that plans its future, that plans its activity. While, here in Galicia, the port authorities are making war on their own and there is no infrastructure plan to improve the competitiveness and connections of these ports. That's politics. The policy is also to think in the medium and long term. The policy is to think that Galicia has to specialize in its ports and has to have competitive infrastructures to foster the productive economy. So, along with the interior artefact of the country, the surroundings and the connection between cities, this must be the target of any government's efforts in the coming years. That is why we call for Parliament's support for this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u95	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u96	Thank you, President. Good morning. In fact, this subject was recently dealt with in committee and was the subject of a unanimous agreement in Commission 2a. It is also true that at this moment the European Commission has already approved the proposal to include this third, Vigo-Porto, in the Atlantic Corridor and also the European Parliament has approved this proposal on 12 December. In fact, one final step is to agree on the negotiation between the Commission, Parliament and the Council, the so-called trilogue, which must be produced immediately because we are about to end this legislative period in the European Parliament. So there's a certain consensus, there's a lack of this last step, it makes sense to reach this agreement here. And we also have to say that it is an agreement that will be late because Galicia will have the opportunity to participate in the investments of the next decade so that this third and the entire Atlantic Corridor network has the characteristics of the trans-European networks, i.e. international wide, double-track, electrification and ERTMS security system, which now does not exist on these lines. And there is no, among other reasons, because we have already lost the train from the 2013 agreement where Galicia was excluded from the Atlantic Corridor and the port of Vigo also on the network of nodal ports. This has responsibilities. Not that of the BNG, which has tabled amendments and voted against this proposal, but rather those groups which supported this proposal in the European Parliament, and that must be said. We've almost lost a decade now. We believe that this agreement is timely and necessary, but we also find it appropriate and necessary to denounce the situation in which the railway line between Vigo and Porto, which has been paralysing its modernization and improvement since 2012, also by decisions — it must be said — of the Central Government with the government of the Union. We see how while you bet and declare the connection of Porto and Aveiro priority through Salamanca, through Miranda de Ebro and Valladolid, the connection of Galicia remained behind, and this, I say, was by decisions of the central government. That's why we have on this line a 20th century train that runs through the 19th century. And so they're waiting for the southern exit... i.e., at this moment, do it!, to go from Vigo to Tui and Porto you have to drive around and walk twice as far away and take twice as long as we do it, for example by road. It is also pending to remove the train passage through Porriño, through the village, which is absolutely anachronistic. It is pending deleting steps at the level; it is pending improving the trace; finishing the track's electrification. It is therefore necessary for the Central Government to understand, and also for the Union, that this issue is a priority, the railway connection not only between Vigo and Porto, but between Coruña and Ferrol, Porto, Aveiro, Lisbon and Sines is absolutely priority. And in the six years of bipartisan Rajoy and Feijóo nothing was done about it. The board and the central government... did something happen, Mrs. Egerique? [[Murmurs.]] No, he didn't talk to me. The Union and the Central Government have to demonstrate -- and this is demonstrated by budgets and investments -- that this connection is strategic and priority, that it is not about declarations to the gallery or a toast to the sun. So far they haven't done it, nor does the current government of the state do it through the budgets that are being processed. We have been lost eight years in this matter and what we have to do is go through, end this chu-chu train — which is as it can be called — that we have on this line, which we also have — have to say — between Coruña and Ferrol and between Ferrol and Ribadeo — a 20th century chu-chu train via the 19th century, and move on to a modern and competitive train as this country deserves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u97	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Mr Álvarez Martínez has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u98	Thank you very much, Madam President. Indeed, we are debating the same initiative for the second time. The rapporteur has already said that it has been discussed in the Commission on 24 January and there has been a unanimous agreement on the part of all parliamentary groups. I understand the need to have an impact on the presentation of this proposal so that the entire Parliament of Galicia can appear. Obviously, there is no change in position on the part of our group, so we're going to vote that if we do again, as we understand that it will happen with the rest of the groups. And we're going to vote that because there are enough reasons, it hasn't changed anything at all within that dual basic network configuration that will theoretically end in the year 2030 and global network in the year 2050. There was a unanimous, social and business political agreement that made it possible for Galicia to be included in that Atlantic corridor, and, of course, this parliamentary group has always supported it to complement or, better said, that once the southern exit of Vigo, something in which they have always found the support of this parliamentary group. It's very relevant, and so if you put us in manifesto a couple of weeks ago at a meeting that was held between the governments of Castile-Leon, the Principality of Asturias and the Council of Galicia, because there we were given data that are extremely relevant and relevant to this debate. It is important that we know that, according to logistics, between 5% and 45% — especially this 45% percentage is extraordinarily high — the cost of a product depends on the transport itself, and, in that sense, it clearly has an absolute impact on the competitiveness of our companies, companies in Galicia. In addition, it was also very revealing that if we were informed that only 1% of the goods transported in this autonomous community are done by rail, and that is anachronism which, of course, apart from the overcost it entails for the Greek companies, has a huge impact on environmental aspects, because everything that does not transport by rail — obviously speaking of land transport — must be necessarily by road, must be necessarily in trucks. If this was not enough, I believe that if it is, and I believe that we are all in agreement, the Confederation of Entrepreneurs of Pontevedra addressed all parliamentary groups at the beginning of this year — specifically on January 2nd — a proposal in which we are asked to strongly support this exit from Ferrol to Legions, passing through the ports of the Coruña, Vilagaría, Marín, Pontevedra and Vigo. Obviously, I don't want to let it go without saying that they also link the development of the province of Pontevedra, in particular, to the completion of the logistics platform of Plisan, and there is indeed something to say, anything to say, the Union of Galicia. I insist that we support this initiative less than a month ago, so this parliamentary group will support this non-law proposal. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u99	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. On behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mrs Egerique Mosquera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u100	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. It is true that we are discussing this LNP in Commission 2a. I've already said that both the voices of En Marea and the voices of the BNG and those of the Socialist Party do so with their little mouths. It seems that now the Government of Pedro Sánchez does not demand the same force and vehemence that demands the Government of Mariano Rajoy. But I have to tell you that, really, our position remains the same, as always, and the exigencies and vehemence will be the same, even if you speak with so much determination, besides demanding a government that is about to collapse. Because they are politically calm, they do not demand what Galicia requires. We're in the same place and we're going to demand it and, of course, vote for it and debate it as often as possible for this to be a reality, for the Atlantic Corridor and for the Vigo-Porto connection. Mr. Sánchez, you speak here that Mr. Feijóo and Knight are here, and says that Feijóo has done nothing but the Knight or his name. Of course, he doesn't demand the same, and the Socialist Party never demands the same thing as the People's Party. It's very curious, in addition, we take all this full talk about the People's Party when we have a Government in Spain that is from the Socialist Party with independentists, who is about to crumble, which is putting an impressive cut in the budgets to Galicia, and here nothing happens! Here we keep talking about the People's Party! Look, we, from the People's Party, will continue to demand what we have always done, and besides, with the same coherence and with the same force; more consistency, it fits, because the experiences we have from the socialist commissioners in Europe and from the socialist ministers are not very flattering either to Galicia or to Vigo. Mr. José Blanco did business in 2011. You speak of 2013, but it was Mr. José Blanco who left Vigo out of the bare net of ports. We had a commissioner, who was Almunia, who in favor of the Netherlands put the Tax Read in the Welsh naval and put Galician shipyards in a problem that we were fortunately able to solve. President Sánchez condemns the debt to the port of Valencia, to the detriment of and without regard to the ports of Greece, and here nothing happens! And the Socialist Party has always been in its history, in its governments, the most damaging to Galicia. So we'll keep talking in the same place. Besides, after the debate we had in Commission 2nd, things happened. There was a meeting in Galicia, to which you, by the way, were invited and we didn't see it there — you choose where to go and where to go — to strengthen three autonomous communities, with the three presidents there, and with members of civil society. We also have a report that will be presented on Monday by the President of the Economic and Social Council — today he spoke in a media — which they have made unions, universities, which are also the entrepreneurs of Galicia and the ports themselves, in which it is said that Galicia plays the future with this corridor, and of course we hear everyone who has something to say. At that meeting where the president of Asturias, the President of Castela-León and the President of Galicia, Alberto Núñez Feijóo, were present, the truth is that there was total unanimity in asking and putting on the table which are the objectives of this corridor before this is a reality. Targets are that there is greater employment, that there is, in addition, greater opportunities in Galicia and that there is a northwest peninsula, not a northwestern Spanish, and there we also talk about the Vigo-Porto connection. In the 1990s, in the 1990s, with the government of Fraga, there was already talk of the northwest peninsula, not of the northwestern Spanish. And the Galician People's Party has always been working on that idea, with that maximum, and always asking, in addition, that bond of the Greek ports with the port of Legions, and now comes here threatening and saying that their competition is the Spanish ports. And you, Mr Sánchez, as Mr Galego defends here the governments of Portugal to the detriment, perhaps, of the ports of Galicia. I think we must all be in favour of defending our common interests, and this corridor is an example. I believe that this government, this parliamentary group, has always had it on the table, and we're not going to be afraid of it, we're still demanding the same thing. I also said that the issue of accounts, of funding is important, and you were talking about it, too. It is about 3,500 euros, so we have to ask for it with a very firm voice, unanimously in this Parliament, and we rejoice that this is going out unanimously, but not by mouth. Of course, on many clear occasions we are politicians and we are politicians, but here are things that are fundamental to Galicia and to the future of Galicia. We're seeing, in addition, the seeds that are planted at some point, which happens later. So today this decision, despite the fact that there is little interest and that I see Members a little bit more bored in defending this initiative, is very important — I insist — for the future of Galicia and for the future of the northwestern peninsula. I insist that the benefits can multiply. In addition, this can perfectly be translated — from the unions, from the entrepreneurs, to the university — into jobs, to improvements in population fixing, to higher industry. It is therefore essential to be able to compete in Europe of the 21st century on equal terms. We will definitely support and continue to fight, in addition, for this to be a reality. We've been in this place for many years, and we've been in the same place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u101	Thank you very much, Mrs. Egerique. Mr. Sánchez García has the floor on the author group of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u102	Thanks a lot to all the groups for supporting the initiative, I think unanimity on this issue is important. And starting from that gratitude, I feel obliged to answer some questions. First, you said that the People's Party always defended the idea of connecting the northwest. Well, history doesn't believe that. Besides talking, I think they didn't do anything, that's a reality. FEVE, the former called FEVE, is as it is and there have been governments of the People's Party in the State in the last seven years, with Mr. Mariano Rajoy, and what has been done?, what investments have there been for that? What projects did the People's Party do or urged the Galician Union to do for the connection with Portugal? Zero too. So the story is there. You can say what you want, but the People's Party didn't worry because it never prioritized the northwest — that is, the connection to Europe — or the connection to the north of Portugal. Surprisingly for us, the connection of passengers with the Meseta has been prioritized, and I think it is a historic mistake of this country to cross a plateau depopulated with passengers, rather than prioritize the connection of the Atlantic axis with Europe to connect — as several spokesmen said here — the ports of Greece and to increase competitiveness in Europe. Then you talked about vehemence. I speak with the same vehemence with each other, I said it. I said he was Abel Knight on the Committee of Regions, I appointed him conscience and he has responsibility, but Mr. Abel Knight is not president of the Council of Galicia. The President of Galicia, Mr Feijóo, is now in the car but said nothing when the amendments to the European Committee of the Regions were made. And we need to know that we have this opportunity because a Portuguese Member of the European Parliament's Infrastructure Commission introduced this amendment, because neither Mr Blanco nor Mr Millán Mon — who are in committee, I believe, at least the People's Group has a member in that committee — have put no amendment to include the Vigo-Porto connection, and that must be known too. Obviously, you said things have happened, and it is true, and we rejoice that Mr Feijóo finally joins this initiative and that this whole Parliament finally joins this initiative because it will be very important for the future. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. We moved on to the next non-law proposal. Before we wanted to greet the fifth graders of CEIP Monte dos Brozos, of Artexo, who have just entered the plenary. Very good morning to all and all. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Luisa Pierres López and two other Members, on the establishment by the Government of Galicia of a housing plan for youth emancipation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u104	To formulate this non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Pierres López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u105	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all and welcome the children of Artexo. For the Socialist Party, access to Thursday's housing is undoubtedly one of the most important issues in the policies to be developed by the Government. That's because it's the engine that allows and drives this collective to its emancipation and because it also facilitates its active participation in the world of work and its own economic and family autonomy. That is why they will understand that we insist on bringing about an initiative which reformulates the debate before this House in December as a self-amendment, and on which the groups — expressly, in addition — requested more time for a more relaxed debate with a greater opportunity to amend, complete or reflect on the proposed issues, from there this new proposal that we are presenting today. In any case, we live in a context of low birth, ageing the population and emerging from a long economic crisis, to which we have to add difficulties such as the continuing transformations of the labour market, which require greater flexibility and which especially affects young people, who are becoming part of the labour market. And all these particularities are the ones that have to propose measures that take into account this context, to ensure, in any case, better access to housing by both youth and youth. Data makes it more difficult for young people today than it was ten years ago. According to the Galego Institute of Statistics itself, it is found that only one out of every ten young Greeks is emancipated before the age of twenty-five, and only two out of every ten acquire it before the thirty, data which further confirms the Emancipation Observatory of the Youth Council of Spain in its last report of the second half of 2017. It's data that has worsened by five points since 2007, because today it's more difficult than 10 years ago to emancipation for young Greeks. Moreover, only 11% of young people under thirty-four years of age who live with their parents have a salary above 1,000 euros per month. So most people don't leave their homes, not because they don't want to, but because they just can't. More than fifty-four percent of those young people who live with their parents have no income. And, moreover, Eurostat ratifys it: the average age at which the family home is abandoned, 29.3 years, is the sixth highest in Europe. While in other European countries such as Finland, such as Sweden or Denmark, the average age of emancipation is 20 years, and in others such as France, Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium or the United Kingdom, the vast majority of them do so before the age of twenty-five, here the figure reaches 29.3 years. And what's the big difference with these countries? Well, that's where we're looking for powerful aid to emancipation, while here the problem is in wages, in the high incidence of temporality and instability of jobs and in the necessary mobility of both youth and youth. In addition, given that Galicia is one of the oldest regions in the world, of the world!, it does not seem that the present is responding effectively to this problem or the future is designed to improve the situation. Moreover, if a decree-law was passed in December since the Government of the State which specifically envisaged urgent measures in the field of housing, it would not be more than a month later. This means that improvements in the security and expansion of contracts for tenants, from three to five years old, or measures to ensure greater protection for refugees, have fallen and have caused the loss of rights that are socially and very demanding. It is a shame that in this case the lack of support from the groups, and significantly from the Podemos group, does not favour the consolidation of these measures. I think it was a big disagreement, and I am convinced that the En Marea Group itself is very aware of this issue, because opportunities do not always show up twice, and the measure is a real step forward in housing policy. For all this, this youth emancipation plan is, if possible, even more important right now, because there are no more to this day than the two measures envisaged within the state housing plan. The aid contains both for rent and for purchase, conditioned, yes, for localities of less than 5,000 inhabitants for children under thirty-five years of age. The demand of about 12,000 Greeks and Greeks for rental aid in the recent Galician board call—and I quote the statement by the Council itself—that you will not be able to meet, in any case, more than 35% of the requests. This shows that, as we have already announced in some other intervention in this House and also in parliamentary committees, the Board has tightened the conditions for access to rental aid this year because it was and is well aware of the high demand that exists. So much so that, after six months of processing, they remain unadjudicated, precisely by the flood they recognize they have suffered from requests for help. [[Applause]] To notice that about two-thirds of the applicants for housing rental aid are going to stay out, implies that there are at least 8,000 Welsh and Germans with difficulty in accessing the housing rental, and they don't say so, we don't say it, tell them the conditions of the aid, because the discarded and discarded will be due to lack of funds, not because they don't meet the conditions for obtaining the grant. This gives a good idea of how essential it is to complement these aids with other kinds of measures, especially when the economic inability to rent or buy housing in the large cities of Greece is especially complicated for everyone and every Thursday. In 2017 it was found that, in order to rent a young person alone, he should allocate 85% of his salary in order to be able to be emancipated, something that is totally insumable and that contributes, among other things, to the impoverishment of this sector of the population, as well as to the delay of his independence in his fatherhood or motherhood and, as a result, to the aging and loss of population. I was also commenting on it, just two months ago, as the young emancipation program that contemplates Junta is reduced to an icon on a screen that, by pressing it, leads to a relationship of aid that has emerged in recent years, all expired, with the exception of the State Housing Plan. Out of curiosity, he even went into the same thing yesterday, I pressed the button again, and he doesn't think he's changed in these two months, at all! [[Applause]] Obsolescence is still programmed, more off than on. Therefore, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we believe it is essential to better address the possibility of emancipation of young people from Greece and particularly to ensure their access to housing, exploring all the possibilities that would allow them to adapt to the needs of this collective during their training stage, also with the conviction that better information is needed to ensure the real knowledge of rights and, therefore, the ability to exercise them. That's why we propose a battery of proposals that focus especially on Thursdays, with the necessary implementation of a real housing plan for youth emancipation. The measures of this plan go through the drafting of a guide for youth housing and emancipation, which serves to guide the young people and young people of Greece in their search for housing and which facilitates real emancipation and independence, informing about the different options for access to housing, contractual formulas, tax advantages, aid, grants and modes of social participation. Also creating, within the competences of the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo, a juvenile emancipation service that manages a rental bag for young people and girls and acts in the process by valuing the characteristics of housing, contacting the parties, processing the necessary documentation, mediating between the parties before possible incidences, reserving competent housing for young people and girls with functional diversity, and favoring that it contains with a specific economic departure that aims to provide bail to young people and girls with limited economic resources in housing lease contracts. Finally, by giving a specific service in the matter of housing by and for the and the young gales. On the other hand, it also promotes housing experiences for girls and girls by means of a rotational system, as well as the experiences of households established in France and the United Kingdom, or in cities such as Barcelona, with the example of young villages. To also promote temporary housing programs for public housing, for young workers and workers, and for displaced and displaced students. To promote intergenerational coexistence as an alternative mode of access to housing, which fits perfectly with the drive of cohousing. And as a last step, we're also considering the increase in autonomic deduction in the IRPF, more than 10% per habitual housing rental, to lease young people with lower income levels. Thus, equip us with the incentives of other communities, where the average deduction is 15%; in some, such as Valencia and Madrid, it reaches 20%, and even 25% in the Basque Country. This is our proposal, of which I must also acknowledge my political ingenuity, because I was hoping that, since in December I had asked for time by the groups to be able to debate it slowly and improve it with contributions and amendments, I do not understand frankly that a single request for addition or substitution has been made. But as in the construction, in the world where I move, it is customary that it be directly in the work where many of these decisions are made, I am, in any case, available to groups to value the possible introduction of additions, for the only thing that has to interest us all and all is to bring solutions to problems, in this case those young Greeks and Greeks who have not guaranteed their basic right of access to housing. For my part, nothing else at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u106	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pierres. You have the floor by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará Torres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u107	The truth is, when we saw this proposal on the agenda, we were a little surprised. I, in fact, thought: the PSOE must have negotiated with the PP, because they voted against it at the plenary in December and bring it back now, practically immediately afterwards, will have come to some agreement. Looks like no, huh? The truth is, I was tempted to refer myself to the Journal of Sessions and say, I'm done here. We could apply what Groucho Marx said, perhaps we had to put it on film here somewhere in Parliament's gallery: "It's better to be quiet, and to look silly, than to talk and clear all the doubts definitely." Sometimes I think we repeat ourselves, and we repeat ourselves, and we repeat ourselves in the argumentation, and the People's Party, of course, is irreducible and does not pay much attention to these proposals. But the truth is it's a matter, beyond the jokes, really serious and very important, which deserves our attention, which deserves our concern and also our arguments. BNG's, of course, are clear and can be summed up in three, or if they want to be in one: you have to end the housing as a speculative business and make the housing really into a citizenship right, people's right, and this is not happening now; and for that, three great performances have to be developed. The first is to change housing policy, through public intervention in the market, in the supply of housing and also in prices. By the way, this gave it this way, such that it might or might look like, the Galician Board's own housing plan, which happens to be that they do absolutely the opposite; what they do is precisely to boost that dimension of housing as a speculative business. To that end, we have to change legislation: housing legislation, mortgage legislation, defiance legislation, and also sociomis, by the way, the Socialist Party, this sort of tax havens here in the Spanish State for speculation about housing. We have to mobilize the empty houses, which in Galicia there are 300,000. It's the state community that has the most percentage of empty housing, only 90,000 in big cities. We must mobilize these dwellings and throw them into the market to lower prices, and, above all, to act, through incentives and through penalties, against the large housing growers today, which are the bank, Sareb and speculative votre funds, which also have their headquarters in tax havens. We also need to spend more public spending on housing. This is another of the pending subjects of the Spanish State, which is at the queue of Europe, behind Cyprus and behind Malta, in public spending on housing. And also on the part of the Board, which is at a level of housing investment, irritablely, has lowered the investments from 52 million to 7 between 2009 and 2018, and above all it doesn't even meet its budgets, it has a very low budget execution. They also didn't meet their commitments, because they told us in their 2016 election program that 10,000 homes would be rehabilitated, that rehabilitation would be the Government's big target, 10,000 people in this legislation. Where are you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? And the big issue for youth emancipation is not palliative measures, partial measures, which can help; the big question is changing economic policy. I don't know how we have to tell them: change economic policy, reverse the cuts and theft of rights and income that occurred with the excuse of the crisis; reverse and put down labour reforms, the dogma of budgetary stability, since it is really this economic policy that is condemning youth — and not just youth — to unemployment, precariousness and emigration. I'm going to read some press headlines: "Galiza is the second autonomous community where fewer young people are emancipated: only 17.8%." "Galiza is the community in which more young 30 to 34 years of age live with her parents." "The Youth Council sees it as impossible for a young man to enter a home for unemployment and low wages." "The low purchasing power of the young population is what limits access to housing, where prices are rising above it." "Low employment and difficulty to find housing at affordable price. Paying rent or mortgage represents a lot more than half the salary." "More than half of youth has temporary jobs with wages that put them at risk of poverty." With this social and economic landscape, who can really access a housing? So not only partial and palliative measures, which are sometimes the placebo effect, or a sort of political homeopathy, we really need global measures and structural measures to change the situation and housing policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u108	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs. Torregrosa Sanñudo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Pierres, we agree, of course, with the diagnosis of deficiencies and the overwhelming data on the difficulties of youth in our country in order to be able to be emancipated. Youth as a collective more, along with others, such as pensioners, single-parent families and, in general, the working class, who has been suffering the damage caused by a crisis that has served to enrich a few on account of the majority. The austerity policies, the continuous rescues to large companies, banks, highways; the lack of investment in strategic development plans and innovation, in research, to allow work precariousness, are leaving our country with a population pyramid that is far from desirable to keep a country alive. Our youth is gone because he cannot live, because he has no minimum working conditions to meet his basic needs, such as the right to a decent housing. As we have already denounced since our group in various initiatives presented, according to the Emancipation Observatory, and based on data from the first quarter of 2017 — the latest existing data — one quarter of the homes made up of young people under 30 years of age living on rent are over-debted. Almost two hundred thousand under 30 years of age living in Galicia do not work or earn income, less than 7% of them in this situation in the last quarter of the previous year. The rate of poverty or exclusion for those who have not yet attained the thirties is almost three points lower than the national average, but it affects practically 35% of the young people and the young gales. In this context, the amount of money that in a home at least two people between the ages of 16 and 30 must be used to cope with the payment of their rent rises to 33%, 21% more than a year ago. So, while households with over-debted mortgages are 12%, the case of those in rentals is raised to a quarter of the total. Still, this is the most common tenacious scheme among the young people in Greece, because 54% of this collective pays monthly income to their home. The mortgage properties assume, on the other hand, the lowest percentage, with 14.4%. Above it is placed a group of young people who count on their own real estate fully paid, which was due to the low price, 15.4 and 16.1 respectively. They already live as tenants or owners, young people have to add up, in addition, a disbursement of about 126.65 euros on average to pay for the light and the rest of the housing supplies, which grew — as we know — by 12% last year and which take 9% of the savings of new families. By insisting on the theme, the cost of access to rental housing exceeds 30% of recommended maximum indebtedness. In the case of newly hired people, alone, the percentage exceeds half the salary, representing almost 56%. The maximum recommended and acceptable income for a new home should not exceed 454 euros. While this is a single-family home, with a person aged 16 to 29, the amount reserved for housing payment should be up to EUR 243.76. In view of this, we have policies on the part of the Union that, as we have constantly stated, instead of solving the serious structural problem of depopulation and the aging of our citizenship, are only mere campaigns of propaganda, which are far from effective or attempting to solve the real problems of our youth. The 2018-2021 Housing Plan, with a budget in our community of more than 106 million euros for housing, provides for two types of assistance, both for rental and for the purchase of under 35 years. In one case, the aid amounts to up to EUR 10,800 for the purchase of housing, or subsidies up to 50% of the rent. In the last call, published in the DOG of 16 October, the resolution stated that the aid provided for in this call would be effective from the general budgets of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for a total amount of EUR 200,000 — of these EUR 106 million, 200,000 — financed from own funds from the autonomous community, and up to EUR 10,800 per aid. This means that, if the limits were exhausted, it would give the 18 housing aid, which would have a minor impact within our country. And as I see that I don't have time left, we can give a lot more data than they show is that there's a null will on the side of the board...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u110	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u111	...and that this will is not done with plans. Finally, Mr President, we are going to support this initiative, but it must be accompanied by specific budgets and specific legislative measures in order to be able to make available the actual income of the working youth housing at affordable prices, through policies to build a protected housing park, helping local administrations, mobilisation of empty housing and financial aid, both in preferred conditions of interest and, in particular, access to housing for rent at moderate prices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u112	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u113	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u114	Thank you very much, Mrs. Torregrosa. You have the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Castineira Broz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u115	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mrs. Torregrosa, for reading the report from the Emancipation Observatory. Most of the data you have provided, at the national level, at the level of Spain, of the state. And yes, it's true -- he said -- that at Galicia level we were several points below. In fact, he recognizes it, and in some of his initiatives, in the explanatory statement, he points out that Galicia is at the level of Canada and the United Kingdom. I don't know if that's true or not, but you mention that the level of income to be provided for renting a housing is 24% in Galicia -- we're always talking about half. I'd say it's 22%, but I admit even 24%, when Mrs. Pierres' own statement of motives raises 88%. I mean, I see the politics that you're doing and, of course, if you were from En Marea, you'd hide your head and not talk about housing policy. That's right, for friends and for the undersigned there's always help and such things, it's got to go through the Coruña and see how they're making housing policy. Mr Bará, you can't say one thing and you can't say the opposite. You say — and I agree with you — that we have to value and put the empty dwellings in circulation, so to speak. On the other hand, where they govern and where they have possibilities, it turns out that they do not adhere to the U.S. Empty Housing Program. Let's clear up! Together, it's taking initiatives to enhance and mobilize these empty dwellings. And those of the opposition, where they rule—in the Coruña, in Ferrol, in Vigo, in Santiago and in Pontevedra, gentlemen of the BNG—, they say no. Then they clarify, because logically one thing and the opposite is difficult to carry them out. Mrs. Pierres, bring us an initiative that, as you have said, puts the tirate before you have the wound. I brought the same initiative as we discussed on December 19 here and it will bring the same answer. Provides data from the National Emancipation Observatory. Yes, in Spain an average of 88.1 % is required, when it is a single employee, for renting a residence. Yes, in Madrid much more and in Barcelona — that you set the example sometimes — let's not say, it probably doesn't come. In Andalusia it's 73%, if we go to Valencia it's 73%, and in Galicia it's 24%, below 30%, that's what there is. So it doesn't mean we're satisfied, much less. We'll keep working, logically, to improve, and there's the clear measures of the board on housing. What's not much of the help there is, of 10,800, to acquire a home for young people under 35 years of age? We could agree, we'd like it to be more. Or what for rent, instead of 50% if you could pay more than 50% and there was more money? It is a pity that you, instead of bringing here this debate — which I think is lawful and perfect to bring here — do not take it to Madrid, which today are debating precisely the whole of the budgets. Instead of these EUR 1 billion that are destined to negotiate with the independentists, if they were to dedicate their homes — tell Mr Sánchez and Mr Ábalos, we could perhaps improve that state housing plan. That, by the way, what there is, thanks to the fact that you have been approved by the Government of the People's Party, because the PSOE has promised a lot but goes to nine months and has done absolutely nothing, nothing!, Mrs. Pierres, of those housing and emancipation policies that you say. And, man!, I think one of the main problems for emancipation is essentially the lack of stable employment, and PSOE is an expert in creating instability and unemployment, precisely. I hope you have read the Rehabilitation Act, because, for example, there are two articles, 85 and 90, which are devoted — in whole and in part — to active and intergenerational aging programs. I hope there will be support and even contributions to improve them. These programmes involve priority access to both state and autonomic funds. Tax share. I would say that on 18 December you voted against the tax measures which were adopted in the Tax Law here in this Parliament. Among them, nothing more and nothing less than, for example, in heritage transmissions, where the general type is 10%, for Thursday is 3% since January 1st. And in documented legal acts and mortgage formalization, the general rate is 1.5% and for young people under 35 years of age 0.5%. And if it's in the countryside, both legal acts and transmissions are exempt. These are measures that have been adopted here and that you, all of you, voted against. Not IRPF? In the IRPF, there's actually 10%...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u116	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u117	For children under 35 there is a top of 300 euros; if you have two children, it's 600 euros; and if there's a disability greater than or equal to 33%, these figures are doubled. I think you have to be serious and you have to say things as they are. Together is making important efforts in housing, just look at the budgets and real investment in the budget chapters of this year, where there's a growth of about 10%.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u118	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u119	It's over, Mr. President. What I have to tell you is that we cannot agree, of course, with this initiative because, frankly, Junta is already taking action in this direction...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u120	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u121	...and all we have to do is keep strengthening these. We encourage them, where they rule and where they have possibilities, to add to the control of empty dwellings.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Castineira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u123	I'm done, Mr. President. And tell your best exponent of the PSOE in Galicia, Mr. Mayor of Vigo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u124	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u125	...that does not sell public promotion housing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u126	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u127	...40 houses in Rosalía de Castro that sold...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Castineira. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Pierres López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u129	Thank you, President. Mr. Castineira, this series of measures seeks that the Council of Galicia, through the Council of Housing, recognises the serious problem that is living in Galicia. And you know why I'm saying that? Because the data gives us the reason. Every day, in the last sixty days, some more than four hundred people have been incorporated into the Housing Claimant Register, placing the total in the number of 13,369 applicants; an increase that in nine months translates into 1,500 more people. And you know what this means? That the councillor, in the last year, has only managed to meet a housing demand for every one thousand and six hundred requests. One for every six hundred petitions! Mr. Castineira, with that data, please don't tell me you're working effectively. He'll be working with effort -- as you said -- I don't deny it, because there are many and many professionals involved in counseling, but the lack of direction and guidance is absolute and absolute. That's why we propose today this battery of measurements, and we will bring them as often as necessary, so as not to stop knocking on the door of a councillor who seems to have stopped listening to the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Applause]] A youth who, despite not living the state capital situation — as you said — is also suffering a high percentage of the renters that is very significant. Regarding the year 2015... — please, Mr Tellado, I hear you here, I am listening to you. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] In cities like A Coruña, the price increase is 36%; in Vigo, 33%; in Pontevedra, 22%; in Santiago de Compostela, 16%. Substances which do not correspond, in any case, to wages or social allowances. So they clearly increase the economic effort of families to access a housing. There are 9,150 young Greeks who can't be emancipated by living as a couple already, which undoubtedly affects the delay of motherhood and the paternity of Galicians and Greeks. Not only are 60 percent less children and girls born, but half of young Welsh women are not thought to be mothers until they are no longer young, a finding — I have said in their day — that it is terrible and that it only has to do with the dramatic failure of demographic policies, employment policies, reconciliation and co-responsibility, of all policies. We live at a time when maternity and attention to the dependence of older people live in time and drown in the abilities of current families. For all this, we consider — of course we consider it to be! — that it is essential to design and put in place an emancipation plan for Thursdays, because we must encourage and help in favour of all measures in housing policy, but also in a transversal way in other areas, the emancipation and the independence of Thursdays. I thank you, in any case, for your support and I am very sorry for the new rejection...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u130	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u131	...of the People's Party, which has not even had to consider the support of any of the measures proposed, which are not few. The message of this government today is made clear to young Greeks: their problems are not the priority of this government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u132	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u133	They haven't been in ten years and they'll be without it for much longer. We're clear. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u134	Thank you very much. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. from In Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by the Galician Union to carry out the direct management of the land-based emergency health transport service in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u135	This motion for a non-law tabled two amendments, from the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia on the initiative of Torrado Quintela, and from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia on the initiative of Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u136	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Solla Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u137	Thank you, President. If we talked yesterday about what happened while some were mobilising in Madrid and others were mobilising in Santiago de Compostela in defense of our public health yesterday, while Rueda was mobilising with the Bulletins at the CIAE, the workers of the 061 mobilized in front of the emergencies of this country asking for a fair agreement. That's what happened, where was the health adviser? Where was the vice president? And where are the workers and health transport workers who have been claiming decent working conditions in this country for many years? This health transport strike is not a novelty, unfortunately. And it's not a novelty because in our country it maintains a model of commercialized health transport, business-oriented and not, of course, health-oriented. The proof of this is the elimination of many of the vehicles from basic transport to our country eight years ago, which has been the result of debate on several occasions in the 5th Health Commission, in this, but mainly in the past and there are two legislations in this House, as if health transport were something essential. We therefore have situations — and we have commented on them on many occasions — that occur in populated areas, in areas that are also under pressure from tourism in the summer months, as can be seen in Baiona, where we stay overnight without health transport, and have to share with other areas. Or specific subjects relating to celebrations — and we have discussed on many occasions what happens with parties such as those of the Albarinño — the problem of the lack of sufficient resources, or even the situation that suffers from rural lack of sufficient means for health transport. As has already been explained on many occasions, the number of advanced life support ambulances is insufficient, the number of basic life support ambulances is insufficient and, of course, we have a situation that leads to cases like what we know last month in Monforte, where there was no vehicle to transfer a patient, a person who suffered seizures while he was on the wheel of his car, and he had to wait half an hour to be moved, because he was lucky that another one happened there, because Monforte's ambulance was in Ourense. That is the situation we have in this country: the lack of sufficient resources in the transport of health derived from a commercialist model. The same model makes air transport itself unfortunately restricted, from time to time, to contracts in the Galician Union which we have denounced on several occasions. In the past legislation, when I was talking about the need for service to be public, I was trying to ridicule myself by saying that Junta didn't produce helicopters. That's the situation. And now we have a paralysed competition up to four times because they are unable to solve the endowment of a right, a basic transport system to transfer people who suffer from an emergency, a health emergency. And while that happened, while the councilman and vice-president eluded their responsibility in the situation of emergency and health emergencies in this country, the 0.61 workers worked — as we have already moved on other occasions — in absolutely outraged conditions, as a result of these tenders on the ground. Yes, at the bottom, because it's a very common trap in the People's Party to say that the competitions are not down because as all companies compete with very small, insufficient amounts, at the end, to maintain the collective agreement, to maintain the wages of workers and workers, there is no low fear because, of course, in matters of legislation at the administrative level that cannot be classified as low fear. What's going on? It is also in the hands of the People's Party that has been included for all these years in its own recruitment requirements that the collective agreement had to be maintained. Workers have been without agreement for three years, with wage freezes and suffering from a situation where wages are allowed to be maintained by 40% less than they should be charged, because contracts are allowed in practice. We're in a situation where people who work 12-hour shifts sometimes don't have time to eat and earn €800 wages. They're the professionals in charge of emergency transportation in our country. There's no right, you can't keep your job like that, you can't have a right for professionals and, of course, you can't provide a proper health transport service in these conditions. We would like to thank a amendment by the Socialist Party — I speak of it — which is also aimed at including what has to do with non-urgent transport, scheduled transport. In fact, we have the same model in our country for all health transport, for the emergency, for the non-emergency, for air transport. That's the situation, derived from years of privatization. That is the situation, resulting from the primacy of the interests of companies. Companies that never tire of getting profits and constantly claim higher amounts to Galician Union. It is impossible to lose health transport contracts with wages of EUR 800, with wages of EUR 800! Only the use of these companies, on many occasions related to the People's Party in this case, as was evidenced in those proceedings of the Instruction Court No. 2, in relation to the alleged crimes of prevarication and trafficking of influence in the adjudication of the health transport contest of 061 prior to those we are currently discussing, in that expert report which also found the failure to comply with the rules in relation to the ESP. They're pirate companies! You allow them to violate the law, change the weights to ambulances, have workers with contracts under the minimum interprofessional wage! How long are we going to keep these conditions for something as elementary as health transport in our country? The workers were told that they did not ask for decorations, gratifications, medals, recognitions, but they and they are the ones who work in absolutely precarious conditions, without plans of organization and prevention against events; those who have to care chaoticly for those affected and affected in the Navy, in the explosion of Tui, in English, in tremendous conditions of work and doing their work with the highest professionalism, the highest! And those who complain and point out when they report they're using support ambulances illegally, because you can't go to care for people infarctions, traffic accidents, serious emergencies, with ambulances that don't carry healthcare personnel. We've said it on multiple occasions and the biggest one has been denied. We were told that it was a lie, and as I said in the full past, when we asked the Health Counsellor, unfortunately we have the written answer that the health technicians delivered to the 061 Foundation themselves, recognizing that every time there are no ambulances that are contracted through contracts that have formalized 061, they deal without any type of additional control ambulances that are not equipped, those that are called "support" to guarantee the service, something that is not guaranteed. The emergencies in this country cannot be dealt with under these conditions. You can't play with the health of the Galicians and the Greeks. You can't play with the rights of workers and health transport workers. And this situation has to be resolved. From En Marea we understand that it is good to continue with a situation in which labor rights are violated, where health rights are violated, and where, of course, the only thing about these contracts is precariousness and suspicion of opacity, or even that in some cases they have even ended in the courts. Look, in the morning we also heard an attempt to criminalize the struggle of workers and workers. Whoever gets the most benefit by criminalizing the burning of vehicles is precisely who doesn't want this service to be public, who doesn't want to give workers his rights, who keeps an agreement frozen for three years. Those are the ones who win. Who's coming along? It's good to play in this parliamentary debate to the president of the board, but it's not good for the workers, because if you use that burn of vehicles precisely to criminalize a right, which is the right to strike, and a protest that, of course, is always subject to minimum, minimum, plus abuse. As your lordships know, we have just heard the judgment concerning the minimum services in the previous strike that you lived in the case of the Coordination Centre, nullifying those minimums. They always come after, they give the workers the reason, but they always come after. We have a situation in which we remain precarious, mobilisation is not allowed, protests are criminalized, in short, it is an absolutely irreversible situation with this privatized service. So from En Marea to what we think is fair and that will also improve the health service that is provided in transport, we ask that health transport in our country be managed directly and delivered from public health. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u139	Good morning. Indeed, we are dealing with a topic that is of vital importance to BNG. In fact, we have brought him to this Parliament on very few occasions. We brought him in when the People's Party at the Union took out the bid to hand him over to a friendly company, curiously facing a prominent militant from the People's Party in Valladolid. We warn you at that time that bid would have the consequences it is having now. With a low-level tender, fearably low, it was impossible to provide a quality public service if the working conditions of the workers did not deteriorate, or if they did not provide a poor quality of assistance. We were at that time in 2014, and the weather didn't, unfortunately, give us more reason. A basic essential service, such as the health system, such as land health transport, is being provided in truly poor conditions, and we find ourselves with workers and workers who have been reporting this situation not for months, but for years now, with a paralyzing agreement for more than three years, and where the Union and the People's Party have been doing so far, it seems that it does not go with them, because this is a matter between workers and businesses, as if it was not a concessional public service and, moreover, of vital importance. A few workers and workers who have had no way out but to call a strike, in front of the passivity of Galician, Sergas and 061, and everything indicates that the strike will become indefinite from March. It comes to a situation where, as I say, after years of trying to negotiate this agreement, the employer is no longer simply refusing to negotiate an agreement with the instruments that facilitate labour reforms, not only does he refuse to negotiate the agreement to improve working conditions, but he intends to still lower working conditions, reducing 10% of wages, when there is an increase of 20% of the services carried out without increasing staff. I mean, more work, more work load, and they're also looking for a 10% reduction in wages. They also denounce workers and workers with a lack of quality of service that is really more than worrying. We have brought it to this Parliament and we have found that the People's Party, hearing deaf. Real poor quality in the service, of companies that do not provide the service under the conditions that are in the clauses, with fewer vehicles, with less personnel, who provide or perform services for private companies with staff and vehicles that have to provide exclusively public service; with issues such as not disinfecting vehicles after taking infectious patients into contact with other patients, workers and workers and families. Questions that, of course, cry out to heaven. That is why we are going to support this initiative. In the Commission 5th of last week, the BNG also took the initiative to study and take the steps to be taken by the Administration who directly lends the service, but we present an amendment because this initiative, in the resolution part, refers exclusively to the direct provision by the Administration, and we believe that at this time, when there is a strike in the service and by the Administration if the steps have been taken to take out the contest again the urgent health transport, we believe that it is also the time to request mediation by the Board, between workers and companies, to sign an agreement that means the improvement of working conditions and with this the improvement of the quality of care; also that this monitoring and control work is being carried out on the provision of the service by companies in the conditions established in the prayers, which calls on the sky to comply with those conditions; and that since that new competition for the provision of the service 061, it is immediately, whether the number of staff or the staffing is adequate. It seems to us that this is the moment right now, right away. Of course, we also bet on recovery for the public, so that there is a direct provision, but we think that we should also debate and support these appropriations.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u140	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u141	In any case, if the amendment is not accepted by En Marea, we will also vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u143	Thank you, President. The subject of what we are dealing with on this initiative is certainly not the first, nor the second, nor the fifth time it is brought to this Parliament. There is a problem of origin in the competition process and the concession by contextualization. Let's remember that the ambulance contest was born wrong. In order for all Members and Members to be able to understand what it is to be born badly, there was a competition, and when it started, it turned out that, before the nails were issued, there was a company, possibilities of life!, in relation to a leader of the People's Party, who had the ambulances equipped, labelled, with the exact measures, the exact procedures and the exact equipment that then, curiously, appeared at the service. One hundred twenty-one million euros. A process that is born like this, of course, cannot end well. There are police reports that say ambulances pass by weight, therefore, it poses a risk to their functioning and to the people who go inside; but advice seems to him that this is not problematic. There's a problem with companies that come up with prices under what, really, everyone is aware that they can provide the service. They run below, and then there comes a moment when they say, "It's just that I don't get the money!" By the way, by appealing that the rise of the minimum interprofessional wage hinders their spending. If they pay under the minimum interprofessional wage, they're exploiters. But they don't pay for it! [[Applause]] From there on, what does the People's Party do with police reports about ambulances being passed by weight; about who had ambulances labeled and equipped exactly as the nail said before the nail was and who obviously took the contest? What about that? It's a private company problem. It's work problems, it's not up to us. How will it fit us? Some do, because we're interested, and others don't because, total, it's healthcare, that's what we're gonna care about? It doesn't matter either! From there, motivations like those that lead to strike, which is a job claim. Of course, there are ways in which we can't, of course, share. Without knowing who the responsibility is, whoever's responsible for what happened, he's irresponsible. Whoever it is, you've been arguing here, it's not our debate. There are other ways. But for us that is a debate about the finger and the moon. What is there is a problem where a company with tens and tens and tens of millions of euros in a public contest tells the workers that the problem is them, that they have to pay less and work more because, if not, the company doesn't have enough profits. And that's about a public service. That's got a name. Judicially he's got a name, too. But in terms of dignity he also has a name. We are in favour of the amendment we tabled, which we believe makes a lot of sense... we tabled an amendment, as has already been mentioned here, probably because the initiative was going in the same direction, to avoid even any of the benches being able to stand in some ambiguity, so that it would be clear — so we understand it at first — to study the feasibility of returning the ground health transport service to the public service. Because it's seen that private use benefits first to the Galician Union, which loses the quality of care and seems to enjoy it. Secondly, the employers who get contracts to be granted mysteriously; for they knew the nail before it was issued; they failed to meet the nail with the company seal. Tens and tens of millions of euros, 121.6 in that trial, don't forget. So there the beneficiary is always being the private entrepreneur with the administration's expertise. We argue that this model, which could be studied at some point, is not valid in this case. In this case it is invalid because it is shown to be invalid. So let's defend that. We know that at some point there are problems of legal viability that need to be studied in depth: what happens to professionals, what happens to the quality of care, that we must guarantee to a greater extent. We must really study the usefulness of services and whether to prioritize or not. There are a lot of issues to study, but what's clear is that the current system is serving only for a conference between administration and companies, and as long as there is a competition between administration and companies, there are two harms: users and workers, which are probably the two groups that care very little about the administration and the company. So we defend that other model and that's the amendment we tabled. We believe it is important to support the initiative. We will support her because, even if the amendment has not been accepted, we understand that it is going in that direction. And if the amendment is admitted, of course, with much more comfort we will support. We believe that this is a necessary debate because we are talking — I repeat — about a competition that works on a very important issue, which is healthcare, and it also works on a volume of budgets that is also important. On the one hand in terms of assistance, which is what our group cares about, but on the other hand, also in terms of economics, which is what the majority group likes. So by trying to make that balance good, we will work and we will encourage it to be approved, even though we are already ahead of the proposed group that we have limited hope that the People's Party will adopt a decision on facilitating and making more public the health care service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u144	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u145	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. First of all, I wanted to deplore and condemn the many acts of vandalism carried out in recent times, which may endanger people's health or even their lives. [[Applause]] It is surprising, ladies and gentlemen, that the opposition groups had forgotten this rejection, both in the 5th Commission last week and today, although it seemed to me that Mrs Solla had just said that it was the entrepreneurs themselves who burned her ambulances. I don't know if I'd misunderstand. What is questioned on this initiative is the contract and concession of the Earth Health Transport Service in Galicia, and it is doubted of its quality, when in all valuation surveys it is the best rated service by citizenship, it runs on an average of 9.3 over 10 points. But the opposition groups don't care about anything at all, so we've seen all this legislation, and in my case, even in the past legislation. To speak of this, of which we have not talked about, because the initiative proposes to reverse land health transport to the public system, that is virtually nothing has been said about interventions, we should know what is happening in the rest of the autonomous communities. Well, look, ladies and gentlemen, fifteen of the sixteen keep the health transport exactly the same as Galicia, and they've been on some contracts in the last three years. Cantabria and the Basque Country, who are not from the PP, helped them in 2017 and 2018 to that same company that is accused of taking the Galicia contract. In Andalusia, in 2018, there was a set of conditions that required a single technician for ambulance, a technical driver, not two, as in Galicia. In Valencia, in 2017, a contract where CAP or primary professionals cannot use unassisted transport services to attend home warnings and have to take their own vehicle. In Canary Islands, also in those years, UXT has successfully claimed the reversal of the service. In Extremadura, with the competition in mid 2017, an important controversy was created, because it turns out that the company that won the contest was not extreme, the entrepreneurs protested because the company was Andalusian and, after a series of resources, the company won the contest. In Navarra a competition was convened, in October 2018, which did not include advanced life support, mobile UVIs, who intended to revert to the public system. Well, they've already abandoned him because of legal impossibility. It seems difficult for legal impossibility because there's an autonomous community that did, which I'm going to refer to now. It was the only community in the Balearic Islands that made the reversal of this urgent health transport to a public company for a period of two years, last year 2018. On those dates, the workers called for an indefinite strike, before the adjudication of this contract, for the breach of the Tenorio Ambulances company. By the way, the one who won the Extremadura contest, Andalusian company. Non-compliance with wages, safety, health, anti-union actions. And, do you know what the Whaling Counsellor said? In no case can the Health Service breach a collective agreement that develops between a company and its employees, despite supporting the fair claim of workers. The same thing that happens in the Town Hall of Carballo, for example, with the adjudications of public services. The reality is to make public this health transport in Balearics costs the Galego Health Service almost twice as much as what it meant the outsourcing of it, without any apparent improvements in the quality of the services or their increase. This is reported by the National Federation of Ambulance Entrepreneurs, and all of this without assuming the possible subsequent claims of the workers in relation to the balance of the salary with other public workers. Perhaps that's why some socialist government, with Podemos advisors, announced that he was going to study it but that proposal disappeared, that proposal was not known again. The Whaling Government if it helped the air transport contest to a company that seems to be in default, but which significantly lowered the costs of the offer. Of course, when it is done by a government of the People's Party, it is privatization; when it is done by a government of the left, it is outsourcing, and for them it serves the economic criteria of the adjudications. Resources and legalizations. In all autonomous communities: Extremadura, Valencia, Catalonia, Cantabria, Basque Country. If you're looking, gentlemen, in the hemerotheque, you'll find a lot. In short, a single autonomous community has issued a management order to a public company to provide a service, and next year, which concludes the contract, we will have real data on the changes, both economic and service, of that contract change. The other autonomous communities do exactly the same as Galicia. With regard to that well-valued service that I said before, we urge workers and companies to negotiate, to turn to mediation agencies and to denounce breaches of the agreement both in the Labour Inspectorate and in the trial, which would be when the council could act. And we also hope that this announced new competition for the adjudication of ambulances in Galicia solves these problems. Criticians, gentlemen, criticize people and criticize the system. Anyone criticized can be checked by the Health Minister, as just happened with expert Beatriz Gonzalez, who you said was from the PP. I expect a press round of the Socialist Party's spokesman, along with his general secretary, and you can also join the spokesmen of the other groups to request the resignation of the minister, after this appointment. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u146	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u147	Thank you, President. It was obvious that there would be an attempt to criminalize the workers' struggle in the intervention of the People's Party, so I went ahead; and then we had to hear the intervention that was written by the spokesperson of the People's Party, because unfortunately I had prepared it and had to read it. That's the situation; and the one best suited is the one who tries to criminalize those who defend their rights. And if you want to talk about data, let's talk about data. We're talking about 40 percent less workers' wages during the first year, we're talking about 25 percent less workers' wages for the second year, we're talking about workers who charge 800 euros per 12-hour days, Mr. Centeno. We're talking about data, we're talking about pirate companies, we're talking about job insecurity, we're talking about their cut in number of vehicles since you're running, we're talking about that. We're talking about all the amendments you refused to increase the number of resources. And please, I don't think you're here to talk about air transport. Four paralysed contests! But in addition, with the conditions we have denounced and the ones we have asked for, on the basis of the same procedure, on the basis of economic resources, you cut the security conditions, in something as sensitive as air transport, such as the flight conditions of a helicopter, such as the training of pilots for those helicopters. That's the situation. It's just that you're not going to teach anyone, or us here, or any other autonomous community. If you think you can make that step better for the public, do it. Surely you have to work better. We don't have to take any other autonomous community as a model, gentlemen of the People's Party. But you can or should have the ability — maybe, you don't have it, and of course, that's why you have to continue privatizing the service — to better draft the conditions and negotiate better with the unions as those workers do. Of course you can. We will accept the amendment of the Socialist Party. I have moved it initially: we believe that it affects all transport, we could even talk about air transport, of course. And we're also going to accept that amendment from the Galician Nationalist Block. We believe that it is no longer enough to claim improvements in contracts. But, of course, we also consider that surely the People's Party will ignore. And we have an ultraactivity agreement on the table since 2015 -- an absolutely indecent situation. Because if they want to talk about numbers, they're talking about numbers, about data, about how this staff is, not just about the number of emergencies and emergencies. They always fill their mouths with the work of others, with the work of those people who are in precarious, but when they return their work rights, and therefore return the quality of a service that is basic in our country, they're never in favor. I suppose they're going to vote against it, and so once again we're going to have to live another strike; impossible to solve by the incapacity of the Council of Health of Galicia. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. We are now debating two proposals in a cumulative way. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and two other Members, on the Project of General State Budgets for 2019 in relation to investment for Galicia G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and 19 others, on the position of the Galician Parliament on the draft general government budget law for 2019
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u149	There is a self-amendment and amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia to the proposal of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. The People's Parliamentary Group's proposal contains an amendment from the En Marea Parliamentary Group and an amendment from the Parliamentary Group of Socialists in Galicia. [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of its honourable Member and spokesperson Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, in the light of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to the non-law proposal submitted by G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block.Amendment of amendment.The text of the first paragraph of paragraph 2 of the resolution should be replaced by the following:"2. To urge the Galician Union to request those and representatives elected by Greek constituencies to claim at least one investment similar to the investments in 2009, and with the following priorities: "]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[(G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of its Member and Spokesman Xoaquín Fernández Leicega, in the light of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to the non-legislative proposal of the G.P. of the Nationalist Block of Wales.Amendment of amendment.The text of the resolution of the proposal should be replaced by the following:"1. The Galician Parliament calls on the Galician Union to address parliamentary groups in the General Courts to request them, because of their importance for the economic and social improvement of Galicia, to contribute to facilitating the processing of the State's general budgets for 2019, and, in particular, their initial approval, by rejecting the amendments to the whole presented.2. The Galician Parliament agrees to urge the Galician Board to address the parliamentary groups of the Congress of Deputies and the Senate to request them to amend the general State budgets for 2019 so that, at least, the level of investment for Galicia collected in the State Budgets Act 2018 is maintained and that sufficient shares are included to start, continue or complete works on railways, highways, roads and other projects that can be materialized throughout this year."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[G. P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr Manuel Lago Peñas, through his spokesman and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to the non-legislative proposal submitted by the G. P. of the Galician People's Budgets. Amendment.The text of the resolution of the proposal must be replaced by the following:"The Parliament of Galicia agreed to claim an increase in territorialized investment for Galicia in the Government's General Budget Project for 2019, which serves to reverse the cut-off line applied by the People's Party's Governments in recent years, an increase in the allocation of resources for concrete projects to meet the real needs of the country, ensuring with it a degree of execution of budgets very above what was the practice of the government chaired by Mariano Rajoy, with exercises in which the actually executed was under 50% of the initial budget.]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[(G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of its Member and Spokesman Xoaquín Fernández Leicega, in the light of Rule 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to the non-legislative proposal of the G.P. Popular of Galicia.Amendment of amendment.The text of the resolution of the proposal should be replaced by the following:"1. The Galician Parliament calls on the Galician Union to address parliamentary groups in the General Courts to request them, because of their importance for the economic and social improvement of Galicia, to contribute to facilitating the processing of the State's general budgets for 2019, and, in particular, their initial approval, by rejecting the amendments to the whole presented.2. The Galician Parliament agrees to urge the Galician Board to address the parliamentary groups of the Congress of Deputies and the Senate to request them to amend the general State budgets for 2019 so that, at least, the level of investment for Galicia collected in the State Budgets Act 2018 is maintained and that sufficient shares are included to start, continue or complete works on railways, highways, roads and other projects that can be materialized throughout this year."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u150	So we start with the proponent groups. In this case, Mrs Pontón has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u151	Thank you very much, President. I wanted to start today with two previous questions: The first has nothing to do with the times in which this debate is being debated, but with the fact that these two initiatives are piled up, because it is true that they are initiatives that speak of Galicia's role in the general budgets of the state, but they say the opposite. BNG brings a proposal to this plenary to end Galicia's discrimination in state budgets. And the People's Party that presents us is a non-law proposition that wants to maintain that discrimination, because what they tell us is that the only thing they prefer before the cut that gives us Sanchez or that gives us Sánchez — better said — in these budgets of 182 million euros, the PP wants to change it because of the discrimination of the People's Party, which in last year's budgets presented us with a cut of 442 million euros. And the second previous question is that I am fully aware that this debate is taking place in a context where the Congress of Members has already cast their vote. And, of course, there was a position — as all of us have just known through the media — in which these budgets did not have the support of Congress so that we could go ahead with their processing. I don't think that prevents us from having to give a debate on the teachings and also the conclusions that we can draw from both the draft budgets and the debate that has just taken place in Congress. Perhaps we should also be more flexible in this parliament when we can process initiatives, so that they don't have such a heavy delay. In any case, what makes it very clear to us that the debate on these budgets, from the BNG point of view, is a double conclusion: The first is that the change of government in the state involved an alternation in discrimination. I used to be in the hands of the People's Party and I was presenting budgets that discriminated against Galicia, and now I was in the hands of the PSOE and I was also presenting discriminatory budgets for our country. And this shows the futility of state political forces in defending the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks. It gives evidence of what we have reported throughout this legislation: they lead Galicia to political irrelevance and, above all, they want to apply for resignation. Let us look: we have just seen a debate where, in the face of a cut in the caliber that presented these budgets for Galicia, none — and I would like to repeat it — no political force in Congress has presented a refund amendment claiming Galicia's general interest, which has been absent in the debate of Congress. We've come for a decade after the cutting of the People's Party, aggravating. The avalanche discovered it in this plenary Mr. Feijóo, but we had had many years of popular party outrage with Mr. Feijóo as an accomplice. I want to remind you that the last accounts approved during a People's Party Government have been the worst investments in Galicia since 2004. And, of course, we went to these budgets which the Socialist Parliamentary Group presented, but which came after an agreement with the Confederal Group of Podeos and En Marea, which meant a tremendous disappointment to this country, which led us to wonder where the change for Galicia is. Because budgets that discriminate Galicia can't be social, gentlemen. So, we see as in the face of a circumstance in which budgets were presented which assumed poles in the wheels for the development of our country, none, not one state force, presented a refund amendment that had put on the table the needs, problems and aspirations of Galicia. Because the People's Party has tabled an amendment to return to Congress; it's obvious, and no one can deny it. But it's only in that amendment that the word "Galiza" never once appeared, nor what these budgets meant for this country. You see, I haven't had much time to look at it, but I've been tempted to tell you how many minutes and how many seconds Mr. Casado spoke, who I think only comes to Galicia to talk about Spain, never come to denounce the problems this country has. [[Applause]] But he didn't name the word "Galiza," nor the problems of our country. [[Applause]] Obviously, we all know that beyond the over-acting of Feijóo — who was almost thrilled to say the word "daughter", he came as well as happy—, all and all we know that even though the budgets put two thousand, three thousand, four billion to Galicia, the vote of the People's Party would still be "no". Because even if they were good for Galicia, you're there to defend the interests of married people, and that we know absolutely all of them. When you have to choose Galician/Married, uf!, is that the balance is super balanced, always ends up winning the interest of your party in Madrid. And we also had a terrible disappointment with these budgets. We saw a Socialist Party in Galicia that a year ago told us about the scramble that Mr. Rajoy had given us in state budgets, with investments of 939 million euros, and that then, when his investments of 757 million euros, they come to tell us that that that figure is good, that if we go up, bah!, that nothing happens either. As a matter of fact, how curious it is now the people's party's cut-off. We, of course, won't communicate with mill wheels. And so we have to say from the Podemos and In Marea Group, which, first, negotiated the State budgets, I remember, throughout the month of December saying that these would be big budgets, and once we knew the reality, we saw the display of that negationism. But when it comes to truth, neither amends the return to defend Galician interests, nor a vote in favour of the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks in the debate that takes place in the state. And what we want to make clear today is that governing who governs is not presentable that Galicia receives the worst treatment from the entire state, after a decade of cuts from the People's Party, with a cut of 19 percent. Meanwhile, Andalusia went up in the forecast of these budgets by 44 percent, in which they planned to invest more than two billion euros; Catalonia also rose by 52 percent, with investments of two billion euros; Castile and León rose by 9 percent, with 1,940 million euros; Valencia by 10 percent, with an increase of almost two hundred million euros, and they also brought a small gift in the additional provisions, because the Government or Commitments — I don't know very clearly who was involved in this issue — took an additional provision to forgive the debt to the Port of Valencia. We didn't see that in the case of the Coruña Port, or any other port of our country. And, of course, we're not going to accept the arguments that have been used all this time, which first used the PP to justify Rajoy's cuts and also used them by the Socialist Party with the cuts of Sánchez. And the big argument is that the investments in Galicia went down because the works of the AVE were moving forward. Of course, with this, how do you explain, ladies and gentlemen, that in Andalusia, which has been more than twenty-five years with AVE, have investments that exceed two billion euros? Does our country not need to improve the buses, modernize the train, connect Portugal, rescue AP-9, because the great drama of this country is not the mini-conventions of Mrs. Pastor or Mr. Blanco, but did Aznar mean AP-9, leaving us that burden until 2043? And, of course, Galicia also needs the state to pay attention to pending investments in the regenerating of our rivers, attention to dependent people, or to set up an agenda that increases our self-government. In this debate it was evidenced, once again, that we have a president of the board who represents an empty set, a zero on the left in defending the interests of this country. Because it is important to remind Mr Feijóo — absent again in this parliament — that when he went to visit Sanchez, the only thing he claimed was that he had completed the work of the AVE, no ambitious proposal from the country. I couldn't do it because I came after ten years of submission to Rajoy, and it was too much to do at that time. Well, we still believe that since this parliament we also have to say that these budgets were budgets that were an aggravating factor in our country, which gave continuity to the discrimination that the People's Party had practiced for years. The minimum we claimed were investments like those that were made ten years ago, when the BNG conditioned state budgets in Madrid. And we're still claiming commitments for this country, because there's an agenda to put on the table. And the unfortunate thing is that we're going to see how much pimpampum will be in this debate, but the reality is that neither the PP nor the PSOE met Galicia's needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I trust there's not much pimpampum. There has already been a bit in Mrs. Pontón's first intervention, which is in electoral mode, and she gave the pim to the PP, the pam to the PSOE and the pom to the Marea, because it's the first time she openly messes with the Marea. [[Applause]] This debate actually serves to position our group, which in a very coherent way voted against in Madrid of budgets which it considers to be bad for Spain. Mrs. Pontón, when someone from the PP -- I understand that you don't, and respect that you don't -- talks about Spain understands that Galicia is part of Spain. So when the Popular Group says in Madrid that Spain's budgets are bad, it means they're bad for Galicia in general. That's the fundamental difference between the proposal of the Block and that of us. We think they're bad for the Spanish economy and therefore for the Galician economy; therefore, they're bad for the Greeks themselves. And they're also bad at the territorial level because they're also dealing with a way that we understand is not just unnecessary to Galicia. So we're going to position ourselves in relation to this and respecting the background theme, which is logically the issue of budgets. I was going to say that the PSOE also voted coherently. The Tidemen, well, at last, I'm sorry to have to say it, but by the way, for the information we have, the Tide Council recommended voting in favour of rejection this morning. And it seems that, in contrast to what Mrs Pontón said, there was a Member who listened to the Council of Tides, and the other four, on the other hand, voted with the PSOE in favour of budgets. Which, by the way, is also consistent with the information we have on the involvement of the tide in drawing up these bad budgets for Galicia. But we — as I said — understand that these budgets, if approved, would be bad for Galicia. And I want to give you a few dazzling moments about it. Galicia, you know you've been chaining several significant growth exercises of GDP, even on the average of Spain. This is basically based on a transformation of the productive structure, with the fall of construction, on which the bubble was settled and which made it grow in the 2006-2009s essentially. And it's based on exports, it's an economy that's exporting twice as much of Spanish, and in terms of trade balance, we're the second largest trading balance community. The year that ended, we're going to hit the export record: more than twenty-two billion euros. And logically, with the growth of GDP per capita that is extraordinary in recent times, we are already at 90 percent of GDP per capita. Last year the industrial production index grew in Galicia on 4.9 and in Spain on 0.8. So we're at a good time and the context doesn't help, the context is slow. As you know, all growth forecasts are low, and there's uncertainty about trade wars, about Brexit. Italy has already entered a recession. So Spain is also in all these forecasts, reducing the forecast for growth next year; it is already 2.1, according to the European Union's latest one. And — which is worse — the European Commission, in its 2020 forecast, says that Spain will continue to fall to 1.9, when the European Union is already starting to recover to 1.6. With which the differential we had — which was an important differential, from a GDP point practically — is going to be reduced to nearly three tenths by 2020, according to the European Union's forecasts. So we are with an economy that is slowing down, which is still growing more than the European average, but the tendency is to reduce that difference. And besides, he's got vulnerabilities. The first and clearest is public debt. All analysts agree that 98 percent of the public debt to GDP is vulnerable. We are, with France, the only country that has not yet reduced the structural deficit, the primary deficit, which is 3.1 percent of GDP, which is a clear vulnerability to the Spanish economy. And, of course, there is another clear vulnerability, which is political uncertainty. In this context, what they bring are budgets that — fortunately, we voted against in Madrid, because they were damaging to the Spanish economy and therefore to Galicia — had clear distortions reported by multiple public bodies. Indeed, in the public deficit, which is — as you know — on the path of growth in 1.3, the Socialist Party called for 1.8. And all the forecasts of Airef, the Banco de España, private study agencies and the European Commission itself are going to be above two percent, i.e. higher even than the Socialist Party itself wanted to take to the Senate and it was not approved. And the reason is in the expected incomes. Income from new taxes, such as the IRPF, with an estimate of 328 million euros, which Airef reduces to 250; that of digital services, with an estimate of 1.2 billion euros of collection, that Airef reduces to 189; or, for example, contributions linked to new social contributions and those linked to the new minimum wage, which rise to 1.2 billion, according to this project, and which according to Airef, at most, will reach 650. In the end, a deficit of 11 billion according to Airef, 8.500 according to the Banco de España. In short, what was said about two long points of deficit GDP. All this despite the count of 13 months of VE — as you know — something that was also denounced by Airef. And also introducing taxes that affect productivity, which is the underlying problem. The taxes that affect businesses, workers and, above all, technology companies are obviously not going to contribute to improving the productivity of our economy. And it has also been said that these budgets were good from a redistributive point of view. And as far as fiscal policy is concerned, I think it's enough to give a data: the government's expected revenues for IRPF, the rise to higher incomes, is 328 million euros, and the real estate tax increases, 339, even though Airef predicts zero collection. But if we were to commit the Government in this collection, we would be talking about a collection of 667 million euros more by raising income taxes to the richest and richest. However, only with the diesel tax — which is not a redistributive tax — are we talking about EUR 670 million. That is, more by the diesel than by the sum of the IRPF, and it exceeds the sum of the estate tax and the tax on the income of physical persons. And if this is so for the Spanish economy, in general, and therefore for the Greek contributors who buy diesel, in the territorialized field, the thing is much worse. I understand that it's hard to make nuances, but putting in the same bag a party that kept a 10 percent percentage of investments in Galicia in the last few years with whom the first year falls by 6 percent seems to me to be unfair, Mrs. Pontón. I'd rather be discriminated against by giving me 10 percent to discriminate against myself by giving me 6 percent, even if we're discriminated against, right? Come on, it's a small comment. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] The truth is that the investments are down, that there are many works that were under way and that are compromised and that are slowed down, and have already been listed in the last plenary by the advisor. There's no train from the Coruña-Ferrol, Vigo-Ourense, from the Ourense variant, from the incorporation of last-generation trains to the high-speed lines. Nothing about the release of AP-9 rates, nothing about AP-9 with Alfonso Molina in Coruña, the cervical knot in Santiago, the firecracker knot in Pontevedra, the Bos Aires knot in Vigo. Pontevedra's Circulation is not, either, the highway of the excluded Navy, the Lugo-Uurense highway as well. And some commitments are clearly behind schedule, like the Santiago-Luco highway. There is a clear infrastructure deficit that is summarized in this box: in Galicia 26 percent of the territorialized investment of the Ministry of Development, when it rises in Spain 26 percent. [[Mr. Puy Fraga shows a leaflet to his lords.]] Because, as Mr Abalos said in a newspaper in Barcelona, Catalonia, which has long been discriminated against by the issues of public works, had to be compensated. We are aware that territorialized investment has to be seen over extended periods of time, that Galicia, in general terms, has a good treatment of the state. And that's precisely why we don't like this budget because it breaks a trend that we believe is good for Galicia and that it contrasts with what the People's Party Government did. There's A-8 finished and in service; the Santiago-Lugo bus was running after we pulled it out of the drawer, and now it seems you're putting it back; the railway Atlantic axis, and the works of the AVE, for the first time, with a government relief recognizing that they will be finished when the government said it comes out of power, which is in 2019, to be able to enter service in the year 2020. Nor are there in the budgets — as the President said this morning — none of the EUR 85 million of the negative liquidations of the years 2008 and 2009 that we have to deal with every year, and that the government before the deficit did forgive them, did not charge them. They were in the 2018 budgets and they didn't give, and they don't go in 2019. There's nothing for electro-intensive companies. And, of course, we're also surprised that the Interterritorial Compensation Fund still deminies a little more, what we agree that should be strengthened. Well, in this context we vote here and there against budgets. It would be good to know — and to undo some of them — that they will vote on the Tides. The Tides, as you know, have made a series of communiqués in which they say they are proud of state budgets — reference to Mrs Pontón. One of the negotiators, Mrs. Díaz, former companion of this chamber, Mrs. Yolanda Díaz, said that not only is the minimum wage negotiated but two: "I and Manuel Lago, from August to October, have led the negotiation in which the whole area of employment and social security has to be dealt with." I mean, it's a budget that's...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u154	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u155	...my connection to Members of this chamber. It would be nice to know if they consider the deal to be okay or share the "So no, Peter, so no." [[Laughter]] And with regard to the budgets, I wanted to say — to finish — that there is a publicist of the budgets that is the Government's delegate, and he said a phrase that is interesting, because he said that these budgets were for modernization — because they are not for the taxes they introduce — for cohesion — because they are not for the treatment given to Galicia, and also for regeneration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u156	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u157	I was going to give him the reason, perhaps, for the re-ineration until I read a report from Civio, which says the government is trying to eliminate an anti-corruption measure by way of budgets for minor contracts. Use a final project layout to remove the veto to be signed with the same entrepreneur...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u158	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u159	... several minor contracts that exceed the maximum thresholds.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u160	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u161	That's why we vote you don't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u162	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u163	...and we present these amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u164	Thank you. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u165	Well, "So no, Peter, so no," I don't know if you mean Mr. Pedro Puy or another Peter. [[Murmurs.]] The truth is that this debate today has become totally obsolete. And I would even ask you to withdraw the initiatives, because they are absolutely meaningless, it doesn't make sense. [[Murmurs.]] In any case, our amendments are meaningless. We argued that the budgets had been processed and at the same time there had been a negotiation to substantially raise territorialized investments — as you know, the amendments have been read — but this is meaningless. In any case, I believe that this has become a budgetary debate — which was what I had prepared here and which I will do only minimally — in a general political debate, especially after listening to the President of the Board this morning in his speeches. And the first thing I have to say is that, contrary to what the spokesperson for the BNG says, I believe that if there is a background match in the amendments to the whole of them that present each other. There is a fundamental coincidence that is precisely expressed in a vote in the Congress of Deputies, where the members of the BNG in Congress, because they rely on the right to make a political proposal for a socialist Government, which, with all the imperfections — and I will also talk about them — represents a change in the policies of social adjustment that have been practised in the last ten years. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And this is reality. And the problem with the position of the BNG is that, as the same spokesperson explained, and I thank him for his sincerity, none of the amendments to the whole are taken up by the positions of the BNG, not even by those — like that of the Republican Left, who are presenting one — who will support the European elections by presenting Oriol Junqueras as the leader of the list. [[Applause]] I mean, if not even in that proposal if they pick up BNG's positions, then we're on the run! [[Murmurs.]] Because that means that the positions of the BNG in the Congress of Deputies will not support them either the first party, the second party, the third party, the fourth, or even the nationalist positions. And that has to do with — let me say — that you are not in the debate, that this is absolutely free because you are not in the debate. Because when I was in the debate, I was actually negotiating like all the groups and cutting out a dozen million euros for Galicia, who are welcome! But that was the contribution that BNG had, as usually happens in these negotiations. And I appreciate you voting in favour of Mr. Zapatero's budgets at the time, but that was the result. And, Mr. Puy, I appreciate your tone, which I think is very correct. But I also have to tell you, in terms of consistency, that we have the debate last year, in which you argued that government budgets should be supported by the arguments of, first, budgets bring stability, the approval of budgets; it is good for Spain that there are budgets — arguments I subscribe directly now — and that it was also a message addressed to economic agents, which was a positive message. Arguments all of them that I subscribe to. And then in relation to its content, last year you referred to the increase in minimum pensions; this year all pensions increase, not only minimum pensions; it is guaranteed that you do not lose the ability to acquire all pensions, increase widow pensions, increase minimum pensions more. In fact, there is support in budgets for the rise of the minimum interprofessional wage. There is a lot more money for dependency, which, by the way, the Galician Union registers in its accounts for 2019; as well as for housing policy, as for other necessary policies, which have been postponed these years. There's a provision for pensioners with lower incomes not to have to cope with the health payout, which seems like if some social measures had to be assumed last year, because this year much more. And in terms of income, I'm not going to come in too much because these budgets today don't have any vigil anymore, and it doesn't make much sense to argue about them. But I have to ask you that, and tell me in the next three minutes: is it against the rise of corporate tax to large companies that raise budgets? is it against the reduction of two points in nominal types of corporate tax for premiums that raise budgets? is it against the rise of the IRPF for higher income? is it against the introduction of the financial transaction tax? [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Because all those elements allowed, according to the documents accompanying the budgets, to collect about five thousand three hundred million more. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You say in the amendment: tax pressure rises by 20 billion. No, it's not true. The tax pressure rises in five thousand peaks, and with this content, you will tell me whether you're against or not, and the rest comes precisely from the growth of the economy, from the improvement of the collection that has taken place these years. And you say that these budgets -- I even have written them -- are probably slightly optimistic about income. Yes, yes, "slightly optimistic." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But if you do, you compare -- it's easy -- the central government's tax collection from 2012 to now, and you'll see that there's been a failure to comply with the forecasts every year. And in 2017 this failure was more than seven billion. So we can't say that we support Mr. Rajoy's budgets because they were perfection, and now, instead, we are scandalized because a government you are deprived of the possibility, accepted by the European Union, of expanding the deficit... yes, yes, you are, because you are taking that opportunity in the Senate to expand the deficit. [[Applause]] Well, instead, they have some forecasts that they consider endangering Spain's stability. That's not the situation, and that's why we were in favour of these budgets being dealt with. And at the same time — it was going to end — we were in favour of a negotiation on investments. Look, in investments we can do a lot of demagogy about them. There's one version that we compared to last year, a fall that seems to us to be not justified at all. But if we compare with other territories, we see that the investment per territorialized resident remains higher than that of Catalonia in Galicia. Of course, I don't want to put on a T-shirt that says, "Abascal I swear to you, Catalonia, not a hard one." I mean, it doesn't seem reasonable to me. No, I don't think that's reasonable. [[Applause]] I think we should treat Catalonia as we deserve, but Galicia as well. And we think there's margin to do more, to introduce more investments in Galicia, that there were some projects that could be reinforced and some projects that could be recovered. By the way, this budget guarantees the arrival of the AVE at its time, as it was well said; it also ensures that the frigates at Ferrol would start to be built already, after a year and a half paralysis. And I have to say that yesterday I listened to Mrs. Egerique with some affection, seeing that she put so much emphasis on what appeared in the initial budgets. But we all know that we have to see the budget cycle set. And, of course, what was budgeted this year goes beyond the execution of the previous year and the previous year by the governments of the People's Party. And yet you don't say a word about it. The important thing is what changes reality. And what changes reality is what's being executed. And the levels of execution were so low that the budgets of previous years were simply a sort of "smooth curtain," said the president of the board this morning. I say we should all think about it. Today budgets are no longer vigil; therefore this is meaningless. But this position I say is quite more congruent than yours. You both proposed at the same time in your amendment that they wanted the budgets not to be dealt with and at the same time negotiate investment increases. We said we were going through and negotiating increments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u166	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u167	Because that's what would allow us to wear a t-shirt of Galicianism, right?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u168	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u169	Don't say, "Abascal I swear to you, of Galicianism I ascribe," that, of course, is not our position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u170	Thank you, Mr. Leicega. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u171	Good morning. I'll take advantage of it that I'm in the gallery, and therefore they can't bother me for the third time, to say what I meant when I was upstairs. Each one chooses with whom he manifests himself, of course. Mr. White Paradelo, each one chooses with whom he manifests himself. On Sunday we were in Compostela with decent people from this country defending public health, and the People's Party chose to go to Madrid by the hand of the extreme right of Vox, of the Falange Española de las Jons, of the fascists of Social Home and of the neo-Nazis of Spain 2000. Since I don't want Mr. Tellado to tell me I'm lying, this is the photo of Falange Española, this is the photo of Home Social Español and this is the photo of Spain 2000. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Lake Peñas shows the House a photograph]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Lake Peñas shows the House a photograph]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr. Lake Peñas shows the House a photograph]] [[Applause]] I'm not who I...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u172	Silence, silence, silence, please. Quiet, quiet. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u173	I'm not who to tell the People's Party what to do. Although I don't hide my concern because the party that was the reference of the Spanish right, the party of Mariano Rajoy, now goes with such bad companies. [[Applause]] You're right...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u174	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u175	Give me a little more time...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u176	Quiet. Don't worry about time. Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet. Please, Mrs. Prado, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u177	Pedro Puy is right when he says that Susana Díaz put Vox in the Andalusian Parliament. Yes, but Pablo Casado put Vox in the Andalusian Government, and Pablo Casado wants to put Santiago Abascal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u178	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u179	...in the Government of Spain. That's the process. And that... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u180	Quiet... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, quiet, please, quiet. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u181	And that, ladies and gentlemen, democrats of the People's Party, is hard to understand. I don't understand it. I don't understand it. The Merkel CDU doesn't understand it. The Teresa May Conservative Party doesn't understand it. It is not understood anywhere in democratic Europe.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u182	Quiet, quiet, please. Quiet, quiet! What's two budgets? What's up? [[Murmurs.]] What about two budgets?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u183	I'm glad you asked me that question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u184	Look at the wig, look at the clock. [[Murmurs.]] What about two budgets? [[Balbordo.]] Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u185	If they let me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u186	Yeah, shut up. I told you. Two budgets.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u187	I'm going to read a letter: "Madrid, January 15, 2019. / Dear Member or honourable Member: / We address you as a Member or a Member from the Merie Group in Congress. / Once the general budgets of the State of 2019 are known, Group En Marea considers that the proposal under current terms is not acceptable for the Greek citizenship. - With the goal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u188	Quiet, quiet... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There's a timely reply from Mr. Spokesman when you touch him, don't reply to him, he'll replicate his spokesman. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u189	"In order to assess this situation"... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, I'll stop talking until...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u190	Quiet. Yes, yes, you have the right, you have to listen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u191	May I? [[Murmurs.]] "In order to assess this situation and to seek possible solutions, we call it to a joint meeting of all the Members of the People's Group and the Socialist Group elected by the Greek constituencies. - Get a cordial greeting. January 15, 2019". A month has passed, the Socialist Party has answered affirmatively. The People's Party didn't answer, no answer. Therefore, the question posed by the spokesman of the Socialist Party is: why do they present this GNP in which they call for an agreement in this Chamber when they refused to sit with the rest of the MEPs and the German Members of the Congress, which was where that agreement was to be reached? [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Well, I'll read it again... Mr. President... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u192	Quiet, quiet, quiet. I'm gonna have to... Shut up, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u193	I've been shown twice by half of what these people are talking about. I don't understand!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u194	It's not the same.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u195	Well, I don't know. [[Murmurs.]] I'm gonna stop for a moment when I ask for silence and start because, if not, I don't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u196	You yourself.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u197	Good. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm going to read again a paragraph of the letter: "At Marea it is considered that for citizenship the general budgets of the State of 2019 are not acceptable." I'm not.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u198	Mr. Trenor, a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u199	I'm not, and I'll be clear. As they are...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u200	Silence! I just called Mr. Gonzalo Trenor. Please, I also don't think it's so complicated that they respect the turn of words. For me to call order is very unpleasant, but it doesn't cost me anything either. But for everyone. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's why. That's it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's it. Mr. Trenor has a call to order and I hope he doesn't have to call anyone else. Please respect who is in the use of the word. Your time will be compensated, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u201	I hope so. "...they are not acceptable budgets for Greek citizenship and, as formulated, we will not vote in favour of budgets." I believe that some Member or Member needs a lesson from what is a parliamentary procedure. The processing of a budget is initially paid, and when the budget processing is completed it is paid in favour of or against the budget. [[Balbordo.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u202	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u203	We...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u204	Mr. Martín Prado, a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u205	We do not accept the reduction of 184 million euros in investments to Galicia. The same way we rejected the harsh cuts applied by the Government of Mariano Rajoy. Let's remember, Mr. Puy: when Rajoy got to the government, the state invested in Galicia two billion euros; last year he invested a billion euros, 926 exactly. That's to reduce a billion euros public investment in Galicia, it's to halv the investment that there was when Mariano Rajoy took power. Of course we have to say no to the reduction of 184 million euros in investment in Galicia, of course! But with much more force, we have to say no to the fact that billions of euros are reduced under Rajoy's governments, which the Galician People's Party has applauded on this camera. But there's more, not only that it had little budget, but that it was even less executed. In 2016, the budget executed on the initial budget was 41.5 percent less than half; the budgets were painted. And that means that between 2015 and 2017 they stopped investing in Galicia about a thousand five hundred million euros of what were painted in budgets. What covenant did you not make with the Socialist Party at Marea? We made a minimum wage of 900 euros; indeed, Yolanda Díaz and more me. We agreed to increase pensions, of course. We agreed to increase the salary of public employees. We agreed on the rise, the recovery of unemployment benefit over 52 years of age. That's what we agreed to. And that's why we are in favour of budgeting, so that 750,000 Greek pensioners, 150,000 public employees, 40,000 unemployed, 50,000 people who are going to benefit from the minimum interprofessional wage, people who are awaiting dependency aid, the resources needed for gender violence or housing policies benefit from what is approved in budgets. Where we don't have an agreement, it's about territorialized investment for Galicia, because we're at all in disagreement. I shall explain whether any Member or Member does not understand the parliamentary procedure. We say that budgets are going through and we put a condition: if Galicia does not recover its level of investment, we would vote against those budgets; so of course. And for that we present 300 amendments amounting to 700 million euros that are registered in the House; it's written. And I say again: In Marea I wanted to process the budgets because that would allow us to move forward in the social, conditioned by their affirmative vote that in the parliamentary process the demands of our country were admitted, the demands of Galicia, which were processed through our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u206	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u207	I can't, I have to talk about BNG.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u208	End, look at your time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u209	Yes, yes. But time was...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u210	No, no, look at the clock. He's compensated. It's over now, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u211	Mrs Pontón, we do not make a complete amendment because we do not want to vote for the People's Party. That's so clear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u212	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u213	We do not present an amendment to the whole...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u214	It's over, it's over. [[Mr. Lake Peñas pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, no, Mr. Lago, your time is up...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u215	...because we don't participate in the strategy of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u216	...it's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u217	We didn't do the same thing BNG did when he had Members in Congress. That's...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u218	Your time is up, Mr. Lago. Mr. Lago, you have to leave the rostrum because, if not, I call it by order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u219	...steps by...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u220	Mr. Lago, leave the rostrum. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Pedro Puy shouldn't like the pimpampum much, he gave me the feeling; I think in PP they're more than "here," they're more on that issue. [[Applause]] And I have to tell you, Mr. Puy, that I saw him very off. Yes, he was very turned off. [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I'm glad you're laughing now, because I really think -- we see it, right? -- that at PP they're very happy and happy. I wanted to ask you to rejoice at that face, because by the vote that just took place in the Congress of Deputies, your proposal is not approved by law. The cut of EUR 442 million has already been approved to Galicia, which has left us the People's Party last year, the worst investment since 2004. Because they always talk to us about statistics. You know what they said about statistics: if I'm like a chicken but we're two, the statistic can say that everyone ate half a chicken. And, of course, they're with that trecola and that mackerel that was investing 10% with you. Look: we certainly don't like any discrimination, but I'd rather be discriminated against by 8%, which means 2,000 million euros of investment in Galicia, which does not have 11 % duns ridiculous 900 million euros, which was what the People's Party left us. And, if I may, Mr. Leiceaga, of course, I understand that it is difficult to go up this rostrum and after seeing the State budgets have to defend them here. Because we're talking about obvious discrimination in our country. And he accepted the arguments that the People's Party normally uses; finally, each one referred to where he considers. In any case, if I thank you very much for your intervention. And I thank you very much, because you have done it: Mr. Leicega, unintentionally, has shown us how useless the state forces are to defend the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks, because he has asked us to do it Left at the Congress of Deputies. Thank you very much, Mr. Leicega, for this intervention, because you come to ask the Left to do what you don't do, which is to defend the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Applause]] Regarding the intervention of the Tide, it reminded me very much of one sentence — which is not mine and I don't remember now who said it, it has been said many times in this parliament — that victory has many parents, but defeat is orphaned. And, of course, I won't say what you do, whether you're like Jorkera or not, at last, it's good that you have it as a reference. I am glad that, indeed, it was a Member who did very well his work and who defended Galicia's interests. [[Applause]] And this is not a matter of parliamentary procedures, it's a problem where the priorities are. And you come here to recognize that they have agreed budgets with the PSOE and that they have forgotten Galicia. Come here to recognize that Galicia is not on the priorities agenda. And really, that would never do BNG. Because I don't know how there may be social budgets that discriminate against Galicia. I can't understand how you can see a rain of millions to Madrid, to Andalusia, to Catalonia. [[Applause]] Because behind these investments, you know what's going on? Political weight. And, in fact, that's what Galicia needs to finish this wheel...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u222	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u223	...that they're driving us the state forces. Because — finished with this, Mr President — I believe that it is very clarifying to see a People's Party that when you saw the State budgets you did not think: what a disappointment to this country!, but I have a weak flank to give Pedro Sánchez. That's right, that's right, that's right, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, and the worst thing is that you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u224	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u225	...see the ball in the alien eye and don't see the beam on your own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u226	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. On the amendment to the PSOE, will you accept the amendment to the PSOE? Don't you? [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Yes, but I ask. I wonder why there's no surprise. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u227	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday we had a very interesting debate, where I said democracy was pacts. And now it turns out you can't vote even if you're against something, because if you vote with someone who's connected to someone, which is a curious concatenation. I would like to insist on this: if we were to pass what we were asked to do yesterday at Marea, because, indeed, we could not have rejected bad budgets for Galicia, because it also voted against the Republican Left. [[Applause]] There's yesterday's nonsense, and today's is done. Anyway! Mr. Leicega, in fact, what I didn't think was to be so successful last year. When I defended here the budgets for the year 2018 in Spain, the last thing I thought was that who would convince Mr. Sánchez, because who approved the budgets that he left the PP, before they voted there was a motion of censure, and who approved the assumptions that were in force in Spain was the Socialist Party. I, in fact, have never expected so much success in convincing Mr. Sánchez. The fact is that with these budgets there have been investments in Galicia — there is the recognition that the AVE is going to end — there has been economic growth and job creation. The problem is that you now bring some budgets that exactly want to go back and reverse this whole process; that's the problem. The problem is not running, because here... No, it's not in execution, Mrs. Pontón; you let him speak. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look: last year in Galicia, in 2017, it was executed in chapter VI, "Real Investments", 111.9 percent of the budget. The budget was 185 million; recognized as obligations at the end of the year, 207. The average execution was 105 percent, i.e. we're above the average execution. It is true that in the business and foundational public sector the investment was 60 percent; 696 million were expected and committed to real investment 420, which is on average in Spain. So there was no discrimination for Galicia. Mr. Leicega said that the budgets that were rejected were slightly optimistic. Well, slightly optimistic is a forecast of an increase in income of 8.1 percent on the liquidation of 2018, 9.5 percent on the tax revenues of 2018. That means tax revenues would grow 2.5 times more than GDP will grow. Which is complicated. If we take it with nominal GDP, which is increasing by 3.8, and the growth income ratio is 1.1, there is one body that has estimated that there are 5 billion euros, simply because of the forecasts that are made of GDP growth, that are not going to happen. Last year, you presented us with some amendments to the budgets in Galicia where you wanted us to raise 60 million euros to debt and 130 million this year, and this year you doubled the debt you had to issue to Galicia. Instead, the autonomic funding last year said it had to increase 40 million, and this year they put zero. You're asking us to commit ourselves more and to regulate the deficit. That's inconsistent with what I just said, that that's the main problem of the budgets that were going to be approved today and they weren't, they were rejected, and that we also refused, among other things, because we don't want to increase the deficit. Being compromised on 1.3 and 2.1, because you will understand...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u228	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u229	Mr Lago, this is indeed a problem of balance and budgetary balance. You specifically said last year, with an budget that was greater than this year, that "The matches to Galicia are antisocial and abusive to Galicia," literally. Well, when he negotiated them this year, what his partner says is, "The budget agreement torn away from the government gives hope to the people who hope for a change of course, a new, modern country, that dreams of living with dignity."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u230	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u231	We see the budgets...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u232	Mr. Puy, stop now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u233	...we understand that these are the budgets. It means that when there is a government that is the most progressive and left-wing in the history of democracy, the result is that Galicia falls into state investments, which are reduced by 26 percent, when they grow 26 percent in the whole of Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u234	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u235	Allow me, Mr. Santalices...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u236	It's just that we're going a lot of time. We're going to eat at 4:00. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u237	Yes, yes. But, Mr. Lago, in the end, you don't know which side you're on. You know a lot about parliamentary procedures, but in the end, we don't know whether you, who negotiated that budget, are in favour, or whether they were good for Galicia or not good for Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u238	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u239	He had an opportunity to say it, but you yourself were unable to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u240	Thank you. About the amendments, do you accept the amendment of the PSOE and the amendment of the tide? Mr. Puy, do you accept the amendments? [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, I didn't. I'd be cut off, sorry. It's just that it's hard to be centered here all day. This has its merit, Mrs. Prado, I tell you. [[Laughter]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government in relation to the price of the fees on the AP-9 and AP-53 motorways
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u241	There are amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and to the People's Parliamentary Group. [[G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, through his spokesperson and in the light of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislation proposal: Amendment.The text of the resolution of the non-law proposal should be replaced by the following:"The Parliament of Galicia urges the Government of Galicia to address the Ministry of Development for the purpose of analysing the mechanisms that make possible a reduction in the fees of AP-9 and AP-53 so that they are in conditions that are homologable to the rest of motorways of state ownership."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[G. P. Popular de Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado, through his spokesman and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-law proposal.Amendment of amendment.The text of the resolution of the non-law proposal should be replaced by the following:"The Parliament of Galicia urges the Government of Galicia to request from the Government of the State:1.- That it consider measures to smooth the fees provided for in AP-9 and that it negotiates with Audasa the flexibility of tariffs.2.- That it conduct a similar study for the loss of the fees of the highway AP-53.3.- That these measures enter into force in 2019."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u242	To formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Bará has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u243	Well, let's talk again about AP-9. I don't know if they thought we'd forgotten, because it's not gonna be. Some people want to disappear from the agenda this subject, and BNG, of course, won't do it, because there's nothing to do with it. With regard to AP-9, nothing has been achieved, nothing we approve of here in this parliament is achieved. It's given some small, timid step, some progress, but it's all unattainable, because the reality is that AP-9 is the clearest mirror of Galicia's dependence, the policy of its resources, the decisions that are made in Madrid to favor large companies against the interests of our country. It's all about getting it, starting with the transfer of the highway. And we have to say loud and clear: it is not achieved by the cult of the People's Party, which has repeatedly boycotted from the Government of the State and from the Bureau of Parliament the processing of the law unanimously approved by this parliament. [[Applause]] He did it three times. It is primarily the responsibility of the People's Party, which is clear. This is a merit from Mr. Raxoy, Mrs. Ana Pastor, and also from Mr. Fexoo, who betrayed Galicia until three times. They're Jews. What happened? I thought I'd give him a stick over there. [[Laughter from Mr Bará Torres himself.]] You're more of a spade than a spade here, you have to say. You are from pa there, from everything to Madrid, to nothing here, to Galicia nothing. Out of the way. How? Rhegueton? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Talk to me! [[Laughter]] I don't like that music, Mrs. Prado. Yeah, I see you don't like the paddle over there.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u244	Silence, there is one Member who is speaking. Please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u245	That's why what I was saying: it's not reality the transfer through the boycott of the People's Party. And if it was too little, Mr. Fexoo has already announced to us today that amendments would be tabled to put "strengthenings on the wheels", to further delay the approval of the transfer, and as we are already in the time of discount of the legislation, it will remain in the dry dock; it will remain in the dry dock again because of the People's Party. [[Applause]] And the truth is, at this point in the film, we don't deserve any credibility from the People's Party. Look, you have less credibility than the CIS of Tezanos. Because besides you, and already told us many times in the last few days, they have aversion and allergy to transfers, because, as Mr. Fexoo said, it is a serious risk to the unity of Spain, for that millennial Spanish nation that is in the fantasy of Mr. Fexoo; the unit of destiny in universal by the grace of God: Spain, Spain of the Casado-Riverista Party and of the JONS. Many other agreements of this parliament are also pending. By the way, it must be remembered that the removal of the fee of Redendola was approved here, where is it? Ladies and gentlemen of the PP and PSOE, but more of the PP, because they've been ruling longer. Audit and information file to the dealership, where is it? Study on the concession rescue, please? Elimination of the Franco-Francist privilege of 95 percent VAT bonus, where is it? They've been ruling. Anti-fraud screens in Chapel and Teis, barrier lifting protocol, urbanization of access to Vigo from AP-9, where are all these agreements of the Greek Parliament approved unanimously? Well, it must also be said, to make it clear, that the greatest responsibility for non-compliance with these agreements is the People's Party. Seven years is the fault of the People's Party of Government in Madrid and Junta, seven months of the Socialist Party. It's responsibility, including the non-expression of the pay of Round it. And I take it to say here that the BNG will support and attend the rally convened on February 23 in Chapel against this abuse, convened by the associations of neighbors of Teis and the Chapel. In this AP-9 story it rains on wet; the problem is that no water falls, something much worse falls. The aggravations and the dregs repeat over and over again, the government that governs, because the problem is stupid centralism, the problem is centralism. Now, as before, we suffer the abusive increases in fees, we suffer the scam, the theft, the robberies legalized by the central government; millionaire benefits for the concessionaire and serious harm to the users. And now, above all, other added prejudices, such as the increase in traffic on alternative AP-9 roads, as we're seeing, for example, the third between Rande-Vilaboa and Vilaboa-Pontevedra, and also the passage through Chapel or through Teis. Thousands of cars that are escaping from the theft of the road fares, especially heavy traffic, which are greatly worsening the quality of life and also creating new risks for road safety. That also happens, by the way, in AP-53, between Lalin and Santiago de Compostela. For as long as we suffer this abuse, we see with indignation, with true indignation, how the Government of the State rescues ruinous highways, with billions, ruling the People's Party first and now the Socialist Party. We see with indignation how it ends the granting of highways that are from the AP-9 generation, AP-57, Tarragona-Valencia-Alacante; AP-4, Seville-Cádiz; AP-1, Burgos-Armignon. And here in AP-9 until 2048 by work and grace of the People's Party, which extended the concession to the legal maximum of seventy-five years. By the way, a maximum grief also suffers from AP-53. Two of the three state highways with seventy-five years of concession are in Galicia thanks to the People's Party. What have we done to deserve this, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? We also see how the central government mistreats Galicia in budgets. We've talked about this in previous initiatives. And if it wasn't enough, we see 30 percent discount on the rescued highways and the nightly freeness on those ruined highways rescued at the expense of the public era. In addition, we see with indignation how the Central Government has just approved 80 percent discounts on two thirds of AP-7 and AP-2 in Catalonia, curiously on the pretext of avoiding congestion on state roads, the same thing that we suffer here. We could also talk about the title-weight highways of the Galician Union, which has already been discussed in this plenary session. Look, with respect to AP-9 and also to AP-53, we think it's time to compensate Galicia and users, especially the normal carriers and users. It's an act of justice with this country. Also to improve those contours of alternative roads, which are increasing traffic and worsening the quality of life. At present, AP-9, because of these abusive increases in tariffs, is a barrier to economic development and territorial vertebration, is a scourge for mobility and connectivity, is an obstacle to the competitiveness of our companies. The ultimate goal of the BNG, of course — as we have said many times — is to get an AP-9 Welsh and free from abusive sins. In the meantime, what we bring here is concrete proposals for improvement. You've already approved an agreement on December 20, 2018, so that the Board made a proposal, and we're still waiting for that proposal to lower the rates. That's why the proposal that we bring here today: that the same measure applies, exactly the same discount of 30 percent free of charge on the nighttime that was approved for the rescued radial highways. And let it be done in addition, in the first half of 2019. So stop acting like payrolls and put themselves in Galicia's service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u246	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Mr Álvarez Martínez has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u247	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I think with regard to this non-law proposition of the Galician Nationalist Block, to which our parliamentary group made an amendment, it would be appropriate to sit down at least a couple of previous bases. With regard to the system of fees, the system of fees, the charging system, or whatever we want to call it, which have the motorways of toll in the Spanish state, there are basically two models: one, according to the sections of the motorways themselves, and one even according to the season in which it runs through those motorways. And that gives rise to huge differences across the state with regard to the fees being paid. By putting some examples, not a comprehensive list, but we do understand enough clarification of reality: the AP-8, in Basquedi, has a fee of 7 centimeters per kilometer, and it is a concession that ends in 2021; the AP-4, that stretch to which you made reference between Seville and Cadiz, has that same percentage of toll, 7 centimeters per kilometer, and ends the concession in 2019; the AP-36, between Ocaña and La Roda, 8 centimeter per kilometre. Paradigmatic is the case of AP-7, the motorway of the Mediterranean, which, for example, between Barcelona and La Junquera, on the border with France, has a fee of 9 cents of euro per kilometer, and ends the concession in 2021, and that same motorway between Alicante and Cartagena is 10 cents, and between Malaga and Estepona of 15 cents per kilometer. I'm talking about the same highway, and therefore to point out that even within the same highway there's a different price according to the tranches. The AP-2, from Zaragoza to the Mediterranean, has a fee of 11 cents per kilometer, and ends the concession in 2021. There are cases like that of AP-1 with 14 centimeters per kilometer, and there are even cases of newly built motorways, which have a toll of 39 centimeters per kilometer. Therefore, the variety, as we can verify, is broad enough so that we can debate and make proposals — let us say — analysed on what pricing system should be applied in AP-9. But it's just that these differences don't even get rid of the self-sufficient motorways of the Autonomous Community of Galicia: the AG-57, between Puxeiros and Baiona, has an average toll of 5 cents per kilometer, and the AG-55, between A Coruña and Carballo, 7 cents; that is, 2 cents more. There are differences even within a small autonomous community, as Galicia is, and within the network of motorways of beaches, which are these two. If we talk about AP-9, which is what this initiative is about, we have an average toll of 10 cents per kilometre, if we take the stretch between Tui and Ferrol — the longest — and we analyze the cost it has. So our parliamentary group, in view of this reality, what it did was to make an amendment, because it seems to us quite frankly that its proposal is restrictive, in that it already determines what percentages must be applied for reduction of fees, we even enter schedules, in this case not relating to kilometres, but rather in steps that propose freeness on night trips on both highways of state competence. We welcome the announcement by the President of the Galician Council this morning — and you have already made reference — that 25 percent reduction request on trips within the same day. Let's see if as a result of this scenario that appears to be opened from this morning's future elections, closer than furnished, and the possible result that can come out of those elections, in case the government sign changes, if that demand is maintained. Let's check it out, session journals have that goodness and that evil. So in that sense, we understand that our amendment improves the proposal that you make, in the sense that it does not limit any kind of reduction of fees, nor by comparison with the radiation rescued from Madrid, nor with others from the state, and we simply ask that the systems be analysed so that the fees of these two highways of state competition up to this moment — AP-9 we hope that it will cease to be ready — are placed in conditions that approve us to the rest of the state as regards the fee to be paid. We are not the one at this time to establish what that fee should be, but what if we understand is that Galicia should not at any time be harmed by manifestly excessive fees, and that must be — we repeat — studied and analysed, and that they place us in terms that are homologable, not better or worse, just like the rest of the state. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u248	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez. Mr Fernández Prado has the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u249	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Look, Mr. Xosé Lois Bará, I don't know if we're going to be "paying," in any case we pay, what we don't do is pay mojitos with the money of all the Greeks, that's not. [[Applause]] But apart from that... I know! I know you with the money of the Greeks pay for everything... ghosts and things! [[Murmurs.]] Don't worry. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u250	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u251	Ben! I like it! Don't worry, Mr. President, that before I went to college, I've been in primary school...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u252	Silence, there is one Member who uses the floor to which he would like to be heard by all of us. [[Murmurs.]] Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u253	Mr. Xosé Lois, I'm going to leave you a leaf that's... you know we're in a campaign at the Roundup PP where we're asking for signatures so that we'll have that immediate fee-free, which would already be if we ruled the PP, but we're unfortunately ruling the Socialist Party in Madrid. [[Mr. Fernández Prado shows a sheet at the House's benches.]] In any case, I'll leave the sheet here so you can pick up some signatures and join this campaign. Allow me, Mr. Jose Lois Bará, to tell you that he was speaking and writing -- because he also writes -- that "the political decisions adopted by the Board benefit the concessionaire of AP-9." I suppose you're referring to the Bipartisan Government of Galicia, I suppose; because that, of what you were part of — you were part of that bipartisan government — was the only one who signed something that was in favour of the highway and against the Greeks, the only one! [[Murmurs.]] What you did today is just to remove that Bipartite agreement, the Government of which you were the general director, who signed in favour of the highway. Four hundred million euros cost us the taxes of the Greeks to pay the state fees! Four hundred million of his two-party government, the only one so far. What did the Government of the current People's Party do? Getting that payment to be removed, and also lowering the increments it set. That's why Audasa took us to the PP government to the courts, for that decision; she didn't take the BNG agreement, no. It's a shame, actually, that I'm not Mrs. Pontón — I'm never lucky to be listening to me — but I was talking before mini-conventions. [[Murmurs.]] Carai for the mini conventions: four hundred million euros from the pockets of the Greeks! And they were signed by the Bipartite. If we go to the GNP, it is clear — and we agree with you — that it is a comparative aggravation what Mr Sánchez's Government is doing. Yeah, of course, he goes down somewhere else and climbs up the Galicians. How can we not agree? We ask, as Mr Álvarez said, for equity and equality, but not only for those future measures, but also for those which are being done now. I mean, it's hard to understand -- and that's why we're talking about bullying -- when at the same time they come down one and they go up the ones of the Greeks. The government of Sánchez in infrastructure in eight months only woke up from the Greeks to raise their fees alone. He did, yes, the circavaluation, he beat her in the boat — I rejoice at Alfredo, the mayor of the boat and the neighbors of the boat. But it's the only work in eight months, when I had to bid it in June. Little balance. That's right, if you wake up. In any case, we share with you the spirit that cannot be and that we must seek mechanisms. Just as we shared -- as I told you earlier -- mechanisms to lower the rates of AP-9, we understand that they can't continue to rise. And that's why we also tabled this amendment. We also think it's limiting, and that's why we made it more open. Do you want proposals from the Board? You just heard the president of the board this morning talking about a 25 percent discount proposal on the travels back and forth within every day. See if you have any proposals! Or that... — I will, Mr. Losada, who always likes to speak to you — another clear proposal said this morning: remove the backpack, which is for the transfer of AP-9, from Mr. Blanco's agreement, 1.4 billion euros of backpack. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Do you want me to come in any situation? Yeah, look, we don't. We want the highway to come with no backpacks, no 1,400 million euros and no extra increments that have other communities. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] The PP therefore calls for equality for all citizens, for respect and equality for all citizens. That's why we ask if we're treated the same way as the rest of us, if they go down into other autonomous communities, too. What changed the criteria... no, sir, it was Mr. Sánchez. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u254	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u255	And I, Mr. Álvarez, also hope that as a result of this morning we will soon move on to some elections and, if God wills, we will have the opportunity to see that a new government does things...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u256	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u257	...in a different way. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u258	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u259	I'll leave you, Mr Bará, for the firm...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u260	No, no, take it, take it. If we start leaving everything there, we're trapped. There you can give it to him. [[Mr. Fernández Prado speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mr Cal Ogong spoke on the part of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u261	Good morning. Thank you, President. We don't know how the Mojito People's Party pays, but the box campaigns in B itself do we know; that's why you're getting enough Soto del Real. [[Murmurs.]] Well, we're going to support this initiative, which is proposed as an immediate step to improve the situation of AP-9 users, but without losing sight of our final goal, which can only be the recovery of the motorway concession. As this initiative stands out, there is a state context in which motorway concessions are being recovered, and this is benefiting users in different parts of the territory, with significant discounts in the fees, either in the form of a direct discount...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u262	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u263	...but in the form of a direct discount on the content of the fees or in the form of a deletion of specific schedules. And while this is happening in other parts of the state, in Galicia we keep doing the panola. We pay abusive fees, which only serve to fatten the pockets of investment funds at the expense of our economic and social development. We can hardly feel like we're doing the panoli more than with the AP-9 scam, without any state government and, of course, without the Alliance of Galicia with the People's Party moving one finger to end the scam that so much harms the Galicians. We do the panoli because, if we keep looking the other way, we will have paid the highway a few times, with coke that makes speculators very happy but very unhappy to the Greeks and to the Greeks. Because it's funny to hear that the highway isn't amortized, because it won't be why we've already paid the Greeks and the Greeks, which only in the last decade we've paid peas in the AP-9 the chilly of 1,562 million euros. Galicia paid for the AP-9 in the last decade, 1,562 million euros, of which 521 were directly in profits for the pockets of the speculators of the investment funds. This just in a decade. We don't know what Galicia has to do to shock AP-9. Very bad business for Galicia, and more importantly, the concession just sold around 500 million euros. But since the Galician Union it is understood that it is a good business not to rescue and pay from here to 2048 about five billion euros more, which will be what Galicia will pay in the next thirty years if the concession of the highway is not rescued. The truth is, this position is not understood as bad for Galicia's interests. And you don't understand why today the Galician Union has not yet produced a report on the costs of recovering AP-9 and the possible benefits for Galicia. And we're not just talking about economic benefits. These days are at the heart of the debate the increase of sinlessness, of mortality in the network of roads in Greece since the People's Party's government, which breaks a trend of more than ten years of falling down of sinality and mortality on the roads. Since 2011, since the People's Party's entry into government, this decline in sinequality and mortality has broken this trend and started to increase. And we all know that high-capacity pathways are safer. And we all know that in the walk that makes AP-9, parallel to AP-9, there are many conventional roads that are highly dangerous, that are first in Galicia's paking ranking, and that now the last year, with the rise of the fees and the poor service of AP-9, have increased. And even the Traffic Chief is warning that N-550 and N-554 are becoming even more dangerous with the increase they're having on their roads. We're doing the panola watching foreign investment funds speculate for the main way of Welsh vertebration, while the president of the German Government is in demonstrations waving flags. Let's do the panoli! We're making a mess when in a decade we invest more than five hundred million in AP-9 and voyeur funds sell the concession for thirty years more than three times less than 500 million, after taking 521 million of profit. We do the panola when we shake flags and we are not able to protect the interests of citizenship in front of Canadian speculators, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands, who rub their hands and see the panels that our governments are waving flags, while they're taking the money from the Greeks and the Greeks. Being a patriot is defending people's interests. To shake flags is what you do when you rule against people, like bullfighters who use crutches to distract the bull. We will support this initiative and continue to advocate that we need to recover AP-9 for the public to end this scam. For our own sake, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u264	Thank you very much, Mr. Cal Ogong. Mr Bará Torres has the floor on the author group of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u265	"Papafantas, it is said of that person who acts to please the other person waiting for an unlikely reward in the future; synonym, useful fool" — end of the quote. Look, Mr. Fernández Prado, we pay the mojitos; there's no problem. When you go to a country as a guest culture, as a guest country — something that bothers you — after Argentina and before Germany, because the normal thing is to make a cocktail of welcome, an opening of an exhibition. Besides, in Cuba they're used to taking mojitos, what are we going to do with them? We pay the mojitos, you pay the "for here, there" tinglado bills to fix and fraudulently win elections. You pay the Gürtel, the Punica, the Champion's bills! [[Applause]] You use reserved funds to raid private homes and steal documents that involve you; for that you use public funds. [[Murmurs.]] They divert public funds for the enrichment of friendly companies and their directors. And that's why, by those bills, they were condemned for corruption; that's the difference; the BNG doesn't. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Álvarez, of course, you're doing a debate here that can't be because you're comparing realities that aren't comparable. They're talking to us here about highways, first of all, they don't have the level of benefits that AP-9 has, nor do they have the concession period that AP-9 has. So it's a bit of a clumsy debate. What we bring here is a concrete proposal to begin to lower the rates, to reverse the course. And at least we ask it to be down 30 percent. And that doesn't exclude the possibility that there will also be bonuses, as in all highways for regular use and for certain collectives. What's going on is that Mr. Rueda, at the beginning of the year, went out there in an embodiment, saying he's going to squeeze the torches to force a down payment of the AP-9 fee. And we're waiting for Mr. Rueda's torches and the English key. And we have to tell him we're not going to accept the amendments because they look like amendments as well as Vaseline, very light. And the People's Party, of course, is already covered with glory when it proposes to soften up. It's just we don't want to soften up! We don't want ups to be smaller, we want downs! I don't know what you don't understand about our proposal. How do I smooth the ups? What are you proposing? Let's get up if, but less, just a little bit! No, we want to lower our rates because we think it's an abuse, a scam and a theft. And we're not going to accept the amendments because they really don't improve our proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u266	Thank you, Mr Bará. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Alberto Núñez Feijóo and 40 other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament in relation to the situation in Venezuela
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u267	This proposal has been amended by Parliamentary Group on the Galician Nationalist Block and by the En Marea Parliamentary Group. [[(G. P. G. G. of the Nationalist bloc Galego, at the initiative of Ms María Montserrat Prado Cores, through her spokesperson and the author of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Rules of the Chamber, submits the following amendment to this proposal not of law.Amen the amendment amendment.The text of the resolution should be replaced by the resources of the resolution by the following:"1.- The Parliament of Galicia shows the support and solidarity with the Venezuelan civil people and supports the political dialogue and negotiations initiatives aimed at achieving peace in this country and in the region, and thus has the final end of the reign of its immense resources, namely:- The escalation of violence, directed by the United States, the political, political and political bloc, political dialogue and political dialogue, and political dialogue, as well as the political dialogue between the European Union's accomplices.the European Union's complic, political and political dialogue, political dialogue, political and political dialogue, political dialogue, political and political dialogue, political dialogue, political dialogue, political dialogue, political dialogue. and political dialogue, and political dialogue, and political dialogue. all. all. all. the role, and its role, and its role, and its role, and its role, including, and its role, and its role, and its role, and its role in the role, and its role in independence, and its role, and its role in independence, and its role, and its role in terms, and its role, and its role, and its role in independence, and its role, and its role, and its role in the role, and in the role in the role, and in the role, and in the role, and in the role, and in the role, and in the role, and in the role, and in the role, and in the role, and its role, and in the role, and in the role, and in the role, and in the role, and in the role of the role of the role, and in the role of the role of the role of the role, and in the role of the role of the role of the role of the role of the role of the role of the role of the role of the role of the role of the role of the role of the role of the Venezuela of the Venezuela of the Venezuela of the Venezuela of the Venezuela of the Venezuela of the Venezuela of the role of]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[(G. P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mrs Eva Solla Fernández, through her spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits the following amendment to this proposal: Amendment.The text of the resolution must be replaced by the following:"The Parliament of Galicia agrees to declare its solidarity and support for the people of Venezuela, with which we have so many family ties, and its institutions legally constituted, in the following terms:1.- We condemn the attempted coup d'état perpetrated against the legitimate Government of Venezuela, showing total empathy with the social situation and the suffering of the Venezuelan people and the Galician community.2.- We also condemn the inherent attitude of the United States of America, and following the considerations of the United Nations, we demand the end of the economic blockade and the irresponsible dialoguesible last resorted to the US authorities, the Venezuelan and their suffering and the Gala Community community, we also condemn the United States's dialogue, which does not seek to ensure that we wish to achieve both a solution. We call for peace and non-interference.5. - We remind the European, Spanish and German authorities that the best way to defend the people living in Venezuela or returned migrants is to facilitate this climate of peace and dialogue."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u268	Mr Tellado has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u269	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia is much more than four provinces and 300 municipalities that make up it. Galicia is much more than two million eight hundred thousand Greeks and Greeks that we live in. Galicia is much more than a land, than a culture and a language. Galicia is, above all, a feeling; it is the affirmation of what we are, the memory of what we were or what we couldn't be and the wing also of what we can become with the effort of all and among all. For many decades — and still today — every emigrant leaving this land had been with him for a while in Galicia. And so there were thousands of Galicians on ships headed to Brazil, Argentina and Uruguay, and so many others by train or buses to Switzerland or Germany. And paradoxically, this emigration — which I would not like to take away from him a peak of dramatism — did not make Galicia smaller, but precisely the opposite: it took him off our borders and made him develop a feeling of galeguity that has to excite us by seeing him in the distance that gives us time. But it also had another effect, which is that today the Greeks expand the horizons of how we see the world and how we feel very close to ourselves problems that give themselves to many thousands of miles away. [[Applause]] Any of us can recognize a worrying call across the continent or across the ocean when a tragedy occurs in some of these places. From this reality, the firm conviction that Galicia cannot be alien to the situation that Venezuela is suffering today. In recent years the Chavista regime has led a whole country to institutional collapse, economic collapse and social collapse, which has resulted in one of the greatest humanitarian emergencies in Latin America in recent history. According to agencies such as UNHCR, in November 2018 the number of emigrant refugees reached three million people; according to the UN, two million more could leave the country before the end of 2019. The sad story of a country that has gone from being the richest in Latin America to being one of the poorest in the world by the hand of Bolivarian socialism. The economic report and the social account are well known to all: inflation out of reach, food and the most basic products, non-existent health services and exponential increase in street violence. All this adapted in the political sphere, with savage corruption and an increase in the power of the military dome and paramilitary motorized bands, which have necroized the democratic institutions of that country. After Maduro's harsh defeat in the 2016 legislative elections — the last recognized by the international community — in which the opposition achieved most, the Maduro Executive launched a Constituent Assembly that usurped the functions of the legitimate Parliament. In May 2018, Maduro continued with his farce of apparent democracy after an election in which he did not participate in the opposition. On January 11 — exactly one month ago — Maduro executed the last scene of this tragedy by taking possession, for the first time outside the National Assembly, of a post that did not recognize him by the international community. In view of this limited social situation, in the face of the usurpation of power by Nicolás Maduro and using the mechanisms provided for in the Bolivarian Constitution itself, on January 23, the President of the National Assembly, Juan Guaidó — I insist: leaving the last comebacks endorsed by the international community — assumed the role of president responsible for the holding of free elections that the Venezuelan people claim and deserve. Hundreds of thousands of Venezuelans went out to the streets to support Guaidó and ask for freedom, but the only thing they found on the part of the regime was repression, illegal arrests, torture, threats, violence and the murder of sixteen people. In this context, the United States recognized Guaidó as head of the Venezuelan state, a statement to which countries such as Canada, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay or Costa Rica quickly joined. As our party has already expressed, we believe that the European Union is late, and this is certainly due to the lack of political initiative and leadership of President Sánchez, who should lead the European Union's position from the minute one by the historical links that Spain has with Latin America. Sánchez kept an accomplice silence for days, a shameful silence, fruit, perhaps, of a certain shameful posture of a part of Spanish socialism embodied by former president Zapatero, whose relationship with the Bolivarian regime almost no one can understand in our country. Fortunately, the European People's Party, together with President Tajani and the Spanish delegation in charge, forced a Eurocamera position to recognize Guaidó. By the way, as I know that some groups are going to say that those who defend freedom in Venezuela are in the same bag that some leaders who recognize Guaidó, I would like to take a very brief look at who voted in Brussels: the People's Group and the Socialist Group voted in favour of the recognition of the president in charge, like the members of the Liberal Group; the BNG MEP voted against, like the British populist right, like the National Front of Marine Le Pen, like the Dutch Freedom Party — extremely right and led by Wilders — as did Sinn Féin — the Irish Bildu — or the ultra-rightist parties of Germany or Poland. After so many lessons that have tried to give us these last few weeks, to see if it's not the German nationalists who look more like the extreme right and the eutrophic populists; it's not going to be that way at last. [[Applause]] For his band, the ineffable Euro MP anti-activacins and health advances, Lidia Senra, didn't have to appear properly even in the vote. I don't know if it would be embarrassing to support a dictator and vote with all the fascist magma I just named, or it would be embarrassing to abstain, as did the Italian North League, Golden Threat or Hungarian and Lithuanian ultra-right. In contrast, Mrs Senna, who did not appear in the vote, has signed an alternative resolution from the Parliamentary Group on the United Left. The resolution includes, in fact, one of the most miserable phrases in politics that can be heard recently, which says: " Venezuela's economic and social situation has deteriorated in recent years as a result of the rise in economic and financial sanctions from the United States and the European Union, which have led to hyperinflation and the shortage of supplies of medicines and medical supplies, as well as to the increase of poverty." Ladies and gentlemen, a small indignity on the part of the representative of the tides of Podemos in Eurocamera. I'm done. Galicia has never been alien to Venezuela's problems; there are 40,000 Greeks living there. We present an initiative concerned by the Greeks there and also by the Venezuelans here. And so we are presenting an initiative because what we don't want is to stay away from Venezuela's problems. That is why we feel obliged to bring this non-law proposal to Parliament. We bring this initiative as an example of the commitment to democracy and the freedom of the Venezuelan people, who need real elections, who need democratic elections. We bring this initiative as a demonstration of our country's commitment to help reverse the humanitarian emergency situation that this brother people live in in, too, many Greeks. We have brought this initiative, this non-legislative proposal to Parliament as a sign of commitment — that we have always had — with the thousands of Greeks still living in Venezuela. Ladies and gentlemen, it is in your hand to support the interests of Galicia — and also of our compatriots, those who live in Venezuela — instead of supporting a dictator by merely being ideologically attached to them. It affects one's position: either we are with rights, with freedoms and with democracy or we are with those who use their ideology and put their ideology above the interests of their own country, turning what was a prosperous democracy into a dictatorship that neither the Venezuelans nor the Greeks who live in Venezuela deserve. So you touch your position and say which side is everybody's side. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u270	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u271	Good afternoon. The truth is, I have to start by saying that I'm a little disappointed, because seeing that this initiative, with everything that's going down in Galicia, with all the situation going on in Galicia, is signed by the president of the parliamentary group himself, by Alberto Núñez Feijóo himself, I thought he'd come to defend it, right? Because, of course, I don't sign the initiatives by defending Alcoa's jobs, public health or anything, but I'm very concerned about the situation in Venezuela. [[Applause]] It has been evidenced — that we have been debating throughout the whole — that are the real priorities of the Galician People's Party: they are running to Madrid to photograph themselves with the trifachito and to present initiatives signed by the President of Galician Union by the situation in Venezuela. Political subordination of the People's Party, of the party ruling in Galicia, to the dictates of extreme positions, of extreme right in Galicia and also in Venezuela. Because I have to tell you that this beneficial Guaidó that just exposed us here, Mr. Tellado is a member of the very little right-wing party of the Assembly in Venezuela. I'm telling you, we're going to get laid. Yes, yes, because I know that before it was "the most voted party" what had to rule and those things, but now it's worth anything, now it's worth anything! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm telling you, we're going to get laid. [[Murmurs.]] Venezuela is actually going through a crisis, but it's not a normal crisis, but it's the fruit of a barbaric blockade; therefore, a crisis induced for years, besieged to surrender. A crisis in which the United States is not that they are behind, but that they are directly ahead, they are leading it because it is of vital importance for the United States to take Venezuela. Why? For the control of its resources, particularly oil, but also the crop, the rare lands, the gas... because it represents the restoration of the historical conditions of domination over the region, the control of which it has always considered its backyard; because the United States cannot allow peoples in Latin America to exercise their sovereignty and control over their own, and for the strengthening of the dollar and the competitiveness of the American economy against other competitors, both Europeans and China or Russia. So that's where we put the question. Venezuela has been confiscated — if, confiscated — more than three billion euros in currencies that could be used to buy drugs and to buy food for the Venezuelan people. And while he's been confiscated more than three billion euros, it turns out that they're all committed to bringing in humanitarian relief frangles. That's the way they act, and it turns out that they're under Trump's command. That Trump who denied the humanitarian aid to Puerto Rico after the devastating hurricane Mary; who cancelled the aid to the Palestinian refugees, who are pursuing and stabbing permanently; who pursues immigrants on the Mexican border, and who has no shame in separating the children from their parents and their mothers, turns out to be very concerned and wants to bring humanitarian aid to Venezuela. It is understandable how free and transparent elections exist in Venezuela, where, I must remind them, in twenty years of Bolivarian revolution more than twenty-five free, transparent and audited elections were held and twenty-three won. It's data, it's small data, and it turns out that the United States and Trump are threatening an elected head of state in a sovereign country to lock it up in Guantánamo if they don't give in to what they say, and it turns out they're doing it in the name of democracy. [[Murmurs.]] And you laugh at grace; as good imperialists who are, laugh at grace. Of course, imperialists failed, as Castelao told them. And as good imperialists failed, they laugh at grace and they give a legitimate president finals because he does not pray to his orders, because he does not agree to be that backyard again and because he defends the sovereignty of a country. And what we've been asking them since the BNG is if they've already told the head of state in Saudi Arabia, where I remind them that women cannot drive because they have to be accompanied by men, execute them and behead them in the street, and it's responsible that thousands of people are dying in Yemen; if they've told the king of Morocco, who doesn't respect the very least rights of the Saharawi people; if they've told Israel, that they're making a genocide in the open sky with the Palestinian people. [[Applause]] Sorry, no, not there, because those who are so worried about the Venezuelan people's hunger in Saudi Arabia are just going to do business, not ask them about human rights, nor go to Morocco... [[Applause]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u272	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u273	Morocco will narrow ties of friendship and Israel will say nothing, for what Israel does is well done, that for this he is a friend of the master. Look: of course, in Venezuela there are many problems, but the fundamental thing is that what they practice is the coup and imperialism, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. The coupism they're trying to carry out in Venezuela is the answer not to subject themselves to the rule of the dollar, not to submit to and break free from financial dependence and drive a multipolar world.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u274	Finish, please, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u275	It's over, Mr. President. Venezuela's crime is to have defended that they have the right to be a sovereign people, to defend the sovereignty of their people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u276	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u277	...and getting rid of the empire — it's over, Mr President. That is why we tabled an amendment — indeed, Mr President —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u278	You've met.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u279	...where we stand for dialogue, peace, the sovereignty of the people, the right of the Venezuelan people to freedom and sovereignty, the right of the Venezuelan people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u280	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Look at the clock. Thank you, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u281	...to have your resources, to respect the sovereignty of the people, to that peaceful resolution and to which you can...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u282	Mrs. Prado, please look at the watch, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u283	It's over, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u284	Finish it, man, please. But look at the clock, look at the clock. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, that's it. Can't you see they're not listening now? Thank you. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] Your time is over, Mrs. Prado, please. [[Murmurs.]] What patience! What patience, please! I've got the sky earned. From this skirt to the sky. [[Laughter]] Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u285	I haven't started yet, and they're already talking. [[Balbordo.]] Look, Mr. Tellado... she wants to talk to Mrs. Prado too; it's a shame, because everyone signed the initiative but they could only choose one. They could, yeah. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] The truth is they could innovate at least in their interventions. Look, Mr. Tellado: in the Iraq war it was defined as the fifth-generation wars were articulated; in fact, the United States, by that time, spoke and defined — their generals — that the public was not the fourth power, but the fourth front. The fifth-generation wars are the ones that you led us to, and when we heard about Venezuela and heard about the support of a coup fighter, we heard of the deaths of Iraq, Yugoslavia, Mr. Tellado, Libya, Syria... and the refugees. That's what happens: the fifth-generation wars, Mr. Tellado. [[Applause]] Yours is as irresponsible as the Government of Spain. You can't support the coupists, and we told you in 2017, when we discuss it here: you don't need to support the current government to know, to make it clear you can't support a coup of state in a country. You offer here false data, but you must remember, Mr Tellado, that most of the countries represented in the Organization of American States, as well as the United Nations Council rejected the coup d'état, Mr Tellado. What you're doing is not defending democracy; they haven't brought democracy to a million dead in Iraq. They do not defend democracy: they did not take democracy to Libya, Afghanistan, Yugoslavia, Syria. They didn't take democracy to those places; they took death, they starved, they took destruction, and they took the business of the United States. [[Applause]] Venezuela is the nation with the largest oil reserves in the world, it is the second nation with the greatest gold reserves, the fifth with the greatest iron reserves and the eighth with the greatest natural gas reserves. That's what happens, there's the interests of the United States and its allies. You act as allies, the European Union is your ally, and it is regrettable that the Government of the Socialist Party has taken that position as well. It's a shame, it's a shame that it shames the people in this country that we believe in democracy. They should learn something from Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero, because, at least, despite not agreeing with the Government of Maduro, he supported dialogue, he supported Unasur's dialogue. That is what we stand for and consider on this initiative. What happens in Venezuela is called blocking 300 billion dollars between 2013 and 2017. This year, last month, the United States blocked 18 billion dollars of PDVSA money, the money that they earn and that they have saved the Venezuelan Government for Venezuelans and Venezuelans in oil sales. That makes it impossible to buy drugs, that makes it impossible to have a normal life. In Venezuela there is no humanitarian crisis, there is an economic and social crisis caused by the right, caused by irresponsibility, and you come...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u286	Quiet, please! Go ahead. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u287	Indigenous, yes, because you promote wars and you're not the ones who suffer them, you're not the ones who suffer them. [[Murmurs.]] It is the working classes of the countries that suffer in the first instance those wars. [[Pause.]] I'm also outraged at having to listen to a hit man and then you say they're democrats. That's reality, that's reality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u288	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u289	Look...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u290	Quiet, please! Mr. Vega, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u291	The United Nations has been called upon not to manipulate the topic of humanitarian aid, which is not real, which is not real! There's a manipulation to justify military intervention. What they have to do is stop helping the economic blockade, facilitate dialogue between the different parties, join and sit down and talk. That's what the Pope really supports, even the Vatican, with which I disagree, but he supports dialogue. You, however, stand on the side of the coups, that is reality, use parliaments and use speakers to induce public opinion. Those are the fifth-generation wars, that's what we're subjected to. Look: we tabled this amendment because we believe that the first thing to do any legitimate government, any parliament, is to condemn a coup d'état here and anywhere. We would never defend that here if I gave a coup d'état just because we didn't like the Government. In Venezuela, there were presidential elections -- you know there are five powers -- four candidates participated, one was selected, and surely in the next elections more could be presented. And I'll be done by now. When they press the button they stop frivolizing with the people's sovereignty, they let the people decide their own destiny and their own rulers, and when they press the button they remember Iraq, remember Libya, remember Afghanistan and remember Allende and Chile. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u292	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. [[Murmurs.]] Silence! Quiet, please! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[A Mrs: What a shame!]] You have the floor now, Mr. Fernández Leicega. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u293	Thank you, Mr. President. As we have little time I'll be very brief, but also very clear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u294	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u295	What's going on in Venezuela is that it's a broken state, it's on its way. A decrease in gross domestic product from forty percent in four or five years is an incalculable magnitude. You compare to the situation we had here in 2012 and 2013, because that multiplied by four or five in a country like Venezuela, which was already starting from the lower standards of life. So there's a very unfortunate situation for many people in Venezuela that implies, among other things, massive emigration that cannot be denied. And there is a need for many people in Venezuela, especially those with less economic capacity, who also move here, to Galicia, because, for historical reasons, we have ties with Venezuela — as with other countries — that go beyond what other European areas can have. [[Murmurs.]] Venezuela's problem is a problem of economic origin that is moving to a social issue and that ends up being — and that's where the solution is, too — a political issue, of the breakdown of democracy in Venezuela. And this is what's happening in recent years. And I'm going to say: we are not in favour of continuing the situation, because the situation is at the edge of the precipice and we have to act. We're not in favour of that, the dialogue you're proposing is an addition, it's a trap -- I'm sorry to say so -- because it's only for Mr. Maduro to be able to earn a few months, a while, as he's been doing in recent years. There can be dialogue whenever we have a very rapid political solution and it involves a restoration of the minimum democratic values. We're also against military intervention, not confused. It doesn't seem to us to have any virtuality, it's no solution, it would make things worse; we condemn it in advance, if necessary. And we're also against Mr. Guaidó being the effective President of Venezuela; it doesn't seem good either, that's not the point. What are we in favor of? We are in favour of the minimum conditions for a democratic consultation in Venezuela, and for that we need to restore the conditions of democracy, which have been violated in recent times. No separation of powers, no separation of powers. The National Electoral Council has been digitized since the executive power. The Supreme Court, the same. Venezuela's Comptrollership is preventing democratic political elections from being presented. What you said about Mr. Guaidó: Mr. Guaidó is from People's Will, which is a central-left party affiliated with the Socialist International; by the way, he has recently had a feature that I recognize to the Socialist International, as it was to expel from his bosom the Sandinista Front, with Ortega in front, because there is a need for a clear democratic will in the parties that are in that International. [[Balbordo.]] There is no situation in Venezuela today of democratic normality and it must be restored. They have to be able to vote all Venezuelans in a balanced way, they have to be able to present themselves to the elections those who want to do so. Today we have people who are deprived of liberty, in house arrest, persecuted or exiled, but who have done nothing but defend a solution for their country by peaceful means.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u296	Mrs. Rodil, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u297	That's the situation, that's the situation in Venezuela. That's the situation that needs to be restored. [[Murmurs.]] Therefore, democracy, the restoration of the conditions of democracy; this is the first of the conditions so that the humanitarian crisis can begin to be solved, which is the result of a brutal economic situation. An economic situation that was created by a regime that did not know the laws of economics, which replaced by pure clientelism and sought electoral support for the normal functioning of a branch of production such as the oil tank, where Venezuela had a good part of its wealth. And by the way, if you want to blame someone from Venezuela's current situation, look at Russia and the OPEC countries, which are behind the oil price drop in recent years. But they also look at Maduro, which is the main blockage of the functioning of Venezuela's economy, dismantling the public enterprise that was responsible for that management and replacing the professionals who were carrying it out by military forces. This is the situation. So we are going to defend it, like the rest, that most of the countries of the European Union, like Canada, like Costa Rica, like Ecuador. Are these countries led by people who have an imperialist will? Or Canada? Costa Rica? Or Ecuador? Lenin Moreno? Lenin Moreno does what Trump says? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, sir, they have a democratic view of the functioning of institutions. We will support what these countries say, what Sweden says, what most countries of the European Union say. [[Murmurs.]] Those behind Maduro — I can tell you — are Russia, China, Iran, Nicaragua, Cuba...; all of them, of course, with impeccable democratic credentials. So we prefer to be with our partners in the European Union, we prefer to be with most of the population, too, of our country. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u298	Thank you, Mr. Leicega. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u299	Thank you, President. I want to begin by thanking the Socialist Parliamentary Group for its position. Mrs. Prado Colors, I think the Galego Nationalist Block is back in the cave. Maybe he never left her; you're still in the 19th century. Listen to her panicking, Mrs. Prado Colors. Logic would tell us that a party that is called a nationalist like the Galician Nationalist Block would defend the interests of Galician and Welsh, also of the Greeks who are in Venezuela. [[Applause]] To those today you said no, that the BNG is not with them, that the BNG is with the dictatorship of Maduro. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Congratulations, that's the Greek nationalism you represent. Look: the reality is that BNG, where did it stay? He stood to defend the chavista regime, stood to support and be a bad copy of Catalan separatism and to try to dissuade our institutions, he stayed to commit and take photos with Bildu's heirs. That's his way: an example of democracy, the defense of legality and the interests of Galicia. Yes, Mrs. Prado, you come here to say that of the very old BNG of "Yankees go home" to defend a dictatorship. Do you know what the Greeks are going to say to the Welsh Nationalist Block? [[Murmurs.]] The same thing: Go home. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Mrs. Solla, you're the last one to defend this; I'm glad you didn't come with your shirt. You need to read the press more, huh? "Iglesias repents of his praise to Venezuela and makes the current situation of the country nefarious." "Pablo Iglesias rectario su Venezuela: "I said things I don't share. The political and economic situation is bad". I understand that in the tides this is carried out that one says one thing and another says the opposite. In the end, what happens and so I'd tell them to do something about it to their spokesperson, who said that he had voted against the general budgets of the state and you finally voted on it. All day long they spend their time dynamizing their own leader. Look: I had a lot of doubts about what his position was going to be after listening to Paul Churches, but the truth is, it's clear that you're still wrong to keep your position wrong. He'll never see us defend a dictator, not before or now. I'm sorry, of course, for your posture. [[Applause]] [[Balbordo.]] Look, what remains very clear, what is very clear after this debate is that the tides of Podemos and BNG have a concept of democracy quite different from our own; it is also true that the tides could wait, because the last time they did an internal vote the result was what was and ended as it ended. Our concept of democracy is based on respect for the choices that are clean, free and recognized by the international community, and we share it with countries like Canada, such as Australia, like Sweden, like Denmark, like the United Kingdom, like Australia, like Germany. His concept of democracy is quite different, and I will not define it myself, because it is enough to see who shares that model and that concept of democracy: share it with countries such as Russia, Cuba, North Korea or Iran, as Mr Leicea said. Ladies and gentlemen of the tides of Podemos, we speak of democracy and we speak of freedoms, and we must choose: whether it is in favour or against democracy and freedoms. You seem to be against it because you are going to vote against this initiative. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u300	Twenty seconds. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u301	Look, I'm telling you one thing: you've been seeing faces for a week all around the corners; it's not gonna happen that the facades are you and they haven't looked at the mirror this morning. [[Laughter]] The facades are you! [[Protests.]] They're the facades of the 21st century! [[Applause]] You should be ashamed of them, you should be ashamed of them!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u302	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u303	We, of course, present this initiative to show our support and our support to the Greeks from there and Venezuelans from here. We, of course, will never be on the dictators' side; for that you are already. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[An honourable Member: Very good!]] Very good morning.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u304	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u305	We proceed to the votes of the non-legislative motions. Close the doors, please. We begin by voting, firstly, that of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mrs Noela Blanco. There is an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group, which has not been accepted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u306	There's a transaction proposed by the Socialist Group that doesn't go ahead and I don't know if the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u307	No, but the representative of the People's Group will be pronounced. Do you accept the proposed transaction? [[One honourable Member speaks words which are not perceived.]] You don't accept it. Thank you. That's it. [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] We vote. Vote of the Non-Law Proposition, of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other Members, on the implementation by the Greek Government of the hemodynamics service 24 hours a day at the University Hospital Complex of Ourense. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u308	We are now voting for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Mr Sanchez. We vote. Vote of the Non-Law Proposition, of the G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr.Antón Sánchez García and Mr. Marcos Cal Ogango, on the demand by the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the defence of the inclusion of the Vigo-Porto connection in the Atlantic corridor, within the process of reforming EU regulations 1315/2013 and 1316/2013, of Parliament and the European Council. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u309	We are now voting for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Pierres. There are no amendments. We vote. [[Pause.]] What happened? Something happened here... we're offline. We vote, if they want, with our hands up. But be careful to count the votes. [[Laughter]] We vote. Vote of the Non-Law Proposition, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Maria Luísa Pierres López and two other Members, on the launching by the Government of Galicia of a housing plan for youth emancipation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u310	We voted in favour of the En Marea Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mrs Solla, who accepted the amendments. We vote. Vote of the transactioned text of the Non-Law Proposition, of the G.P. De En Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by the Galician Union to carry out the direct management of the land-based emergency health transport service in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u311	We voted the following, although they were debated together, separately. First of all, the Parliamentary Group of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Ms. Ana Pontón. The amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia was not accepted. We vote. Vote of the Non-Law Proposition, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and two other Members, on the Project of General State Budgets for 2019 in relation to investment for Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 6; votes against, 38; abstentions, 26. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u312	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Pedro Puy. He didn't accept the amendments. We vote. Vote of the Non-Law Proposition, of the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Miguel Tellado Filgueira and 19 other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament on the draft general government budget law for 2019. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; votes against, 19; abstentions, 13. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u313	Yes, Mr. Leicega, what do you want the word for? [[Mr. Leicega pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Short explanation of the vote? Yes. Perfect, you have the right. [[Mr. Leicega pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Give a voice to Mr. Leicega's chair. Maybe it won't work, if we're disconnected... give a voice to Mr. Leicega's chair. It's not going. [[Pause.]] Try it from the rostrum. Then do it this way, we understand it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u314	Very quickly. Our abstention has to do with the fact that these initiatives are already extemporaneous.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u315	Thank you, Mr. Leicega. We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Xosé Luis Bará. He didn't accept the amendments. We vote. Vote of the Non-Law Proposition, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luis Bará Torres and five other Members, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government in relation to the price of the fees on the AP-9 and AP-53 motorways. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 38; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u316	Finally, we voted for the People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Tellado. He said he didn't accept the amendments. We vote. Vote of the Non-Law Proposition, of the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Alberto Núñez Feijóo and 40 other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament in relation to the situation in Venezuela. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 51; votes against, 19. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u317	We suspended the full till 4.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u318	Good afternoon. We resumed the session. Interpellation by D. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to the situation of the pediatric service in the Greek health system
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u319	To formulate the plea, Mr. Torrado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u320	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. We're always touched by interpellations like this after eating, see if we can still have a more productive debate with dessert. We have more than pointed out and more than known a problem with the situation of pediatrics, which is not specific to Galicia, it is obviously not a direct problem for the People's Party, nor is it a direct problem for the Galician Union. From our position — as we have always expressed and you know — there is a general problem about what if we perceive some differences, something specific here by the issues of how to manage the situation, and we believe that we have discrepancy — and that we have often contrasted it — about some decisions that could be made or that can still be made in the long term and some of which can be taken in the short term, and among them we have a difficult and hard scenario on which we disagree in some matters. Perhaps we can explain it at least in terms of what we are debating, which is always more productive at least to try to find a solution. Why do we argue that there is a specific fact in Galicia? Because we place the problem of pediatrics, the difficulty of covering pediatric care, especially in primary care, in two basic issues: training pediatricians and not throwing pediatricians — not "voting", with "b"—. Our position is that we need to have more and not to leave. And this goes on to deal with some of the issues on these two levels, which in that case we have some discrepancy. In particular, I know that we're going to disagree, because you recently, in the last few weeks or almost months, have manifested some things about the MIR process that you know they're not adjusted and that you argue for a more mediatically defensive position but that they're not correct. To regulate the debate, I think it is important to agree as is the MIR square process: the Union requests to believe, the Ministry believes it considers it, the Union requests squares, the Ministry grants squares. It's a shared work in that work. Well, if it isn't, I'm sure you'll be able to expose it, but if I'm allowed to expose it from this position. [[The Health Counsellor pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And we're going to see if we share some assertions, because maybe we start from different data and, therefore, it's certain that it can illuminate us with some data. All the squares requested this year throughout Spain in pediatrics were accredited and were granted, all of them. There is even this year an increase — to round— of about 5%. Galicia has no more squares. Why? Because they're not believed. Why aren't they accredited? Because you didn't ask for it. That this basically — to set an example, to see it moving to another debate — is to set up a theatre. It has a theater of 100 squares, 100 squares are covered, and you want more people to see the work. So what do you ask? An extraordinary call — which is what you are asking for now — that is: we're going to sell more tickets. Sure, where's the problem with selling more tickets? There's still 100 squares. You ask for an extraordinary summons, with which tutors?, in which places?, for what squares? If you don't believe them! Because, of course, we can say that it is requested or requested. What's the reality? They didn't! Why? Because they can't. What do we defend? That they would have to have a previous job that would have allowed them to go asking for a progressive increase of squares every year, which are always less than what is needed and the increase is small and therefore solves in the long term. But with an appointment that you may have ever heard, "poor of him who did nothing thinking he could do very little." Maybe we could have some advanced space; I'm sure it didn't solve everything, sure!; it certainly wasn't the panacea, sure! but we would have some more squares. Because if it's true that you now have that ambition and that fight for more plazas with that extraordinary summons — that they couldn't accommodate any, because they don't have any more credit, we can see that they've done the last year of the Rajoy Government, because then you have to understand that in the last year of the Rajoy Government — Government friend, you're supposed — you'd increase the plazas. What happened in the last Rajoy Government? They would increase many, and now the evil socialist government does not. But in the last year of government Rajoy, neither. Why? Because they were all granted and because they didn't believe anymore. What they didn't demand from that government now. If in the end -- you know my theory -- I think you're very happy with the Government of Pedro Sánchez because they already have someone to blame, and before the government Rajoy didn't leave them, or they didn't want them, or so. And now it's all Pedro Sanchez's fault. He's even guilty that there are no pediatricians now the Government of Pedro Sánchez—he knows that to form pediatricians we're going to put a little bit of time away, we're going to say the four years, five years even—he's guilty now of what happened five years ago. We know that, in addition, the entire health problem in Galicia is the fault of the Government of Turin, and now the guilt of the health system in Spain is that of the Government of Pedro Sánchez. It's a great coincidence, which should rule too. But they didn't increase the squares with the last Rajoy Government and this year neither, because they don't have the ability to do it, because they didn't do the homework. You also know, Mr Counsellor - and the Government of the Union knows - that the Ministry is seeking to facilitate this enlargement. All I'm saying is, ask for that accreditation. Tell us which tutors, tell us by what means and by what resources they're going to make that enlargement. Or, what's the same -- moving it to the theater debate -- if you want to have more people watching a theater play, you don't sell more tickets with the same armchairs, you expand the theater. And that's what we have to do, and that's what it touches on MIR's summons. And telling something else is good for defending itself in the media, but it's not true, it's not true. There's a second question that's not only bringing in professionals, forming them, but not going away. In a specialty that has practically zero unemployment, technically, because there's more need for the professionals that exist, because it's hard to understand that they go somewhere. And from Galicia they go sometimes, few, because there's little number, but they go, percent notorious. Why? Because we are from communities that treat their professionals the worst, and then, as this happens, there is a problem — also a numerical deficit elsewhere — and they prefer to go elsewhere. Not at the entrance, because professionals are usually entitled and, if they have a job with good forecasts, they prefer to stay normally; there may be some case that does not, but usually prefer to stay on their land, which is natural. But they end up going to other autonomous communities, for example. Why? Because they treat them better, because there are, for example, some positive discriminations in favour of pediatricians, which is a controversial measure and has their complications, but we never heard about whether this is a measure that could be valued or not. There are questions about pediatrics that have to do with a problem of supply and demand, it's a resolution almost in terms of econometrics, even, or analysis. But actually, there's evidence: if there's a small market for a wider demand, whoever gives the best market options will have more options. And there other communities earn us, because we in Galicia have a very powerful labour exploitation policy in recent years, but that's not what professionals are looking for, and the measures that have been proposed in Galicia lately because they really didn't seem very appropriate. I don't want to have to remember the proposal of the area pediatrician, which you proposed without talking to anyone. Suddenly, through the Budget Measurements Act, in the end, put in a corner, to see if it was possible to write it so that it would not... and it had to be invaded. Why? Because no one wanted her, because they didn't talk to anyone; or, on the contrary, they spoke to her, they told her not to, and yet they wanted to put her in. But, of course, people have that defect that they read the documents, at least those that you make easy that you can read — those that cannot read, no — but people read the documents or at least sometimes. From there on, it's important that you keep in mind that there is a need to talk to the professionals. There are some other measures, such as the concentration of services, a measure that would have a need to be studied and that you hid about whether or not you were going to extend; they argued that it was a measure only for the summer. It is obvious — we are in February — that it was not just for summer, that it has a desire for continuity. And it's a measure that could be debated if you hadn't been ashamed of your own measures, because they said here that it was a measure solely designed for the deficit when professionals took their vacations, which is not true. But it's a measure that might be reasonable even if it is right and especially if the information is not hidden from citizens, because there are parents and mothers concerned by the measure and you are continually promising that they will return that service, but they never do. Let me have a parenthesis: that it may not be like the hemodynamics of Ourense, that Lugo's has already been told so long that they would say yes, they would say yes and they would say yes, although here they voted no, they said yes, and now that the elections are next there, they'll end up saying yes to Ourense, they'll end up saying yes. [[Applause]] They voted today that no, uh, they'll end up saying yes. [[Applause]] Closing that parenthesis, they'll do the same to pediatricians. I'd be glad if you contradicted me in this statement. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm going to make a statement — it might be a question, but I'm going to make it in the form of a statement: you're going to appear with pediatricians up to where you can -- where no people, impossible -- going to appear in many places now in Galicia, in all you can, they're going to appear now replacements of health personnel but, come on, this is going to be Jauja! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Curiously May 27 will start to disappear, and I'd like you to say no and that we can check it from May 27th. Therefore, Counsellor, we believe that the situation of pediatrics — which is not the fault of this government — we insist, but this government has done nothing to solve and increase the problem — has some measures. We are going to bring to the next plenary the motion that will correspond to this interpellation. In these proposals we have already done one, who voted against, but we will be able to reformulate the extent necessary to suggest that if you do your job of believing the squares, if you ask for the accreditation of squares, we will defend and support you in the most plaza request, and you know that the Ministry is proclive. We believe that it is possible to remember that, because it would be a defense that would be of value to this government or to the next governments: to agree that when we have a shortage of professionals we have to form more. If you agree, I'd appreciate it if we could at least wake up on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u321	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u322	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. The truth is he does my job, he really does it to me, because he says, what he says to you is what I'm going to say, and then he's already released me a lot. In Galicia we bet on the model of pediatric care specialized in health centers for Galician children. This is demonstrated by the following data. Spain is one of the few countries in Europe that bets on pediatrics in primary care. A study referred to by the Spanish Association of Pediatrics in primary care shows that of the twenty-nine European countries that participated in the study, only seven follow the model we have in Spain, based on the care of pediatricians in primary care. In this same study, it is said that there are difficulties in many countries to maintain the model because there is a shortage of pediatricians at this level of care. First match, Mr. Torrado. We agree that this is not a Greek problem, it is a problem, not a national one, we are talking about the European Union. In the rest of the countries, family doctors or generalists are responsible for this, and pediatricians are in hospitals. Galicia, within the national context, is one of the communities with the highest rate of pediatric coverage, close to 90%; i.e., almost 90% of the primary care pediatrics squares are covered by pediatric specialists, not family medicine. The truth is, to treat them so badly in Galicia, we seem to have more pediatricians than in other autonomys. For example, Balearics: 50% of the squares in health centres do not have pediatricians, half are family doctors and half are pediatricians; in Castilla-La Mancha, this coverage is 58%; in Madrid, Extremadura, Valencian Community, Murcia, Andalusia and Canary Islands, around 70%; Galicia, 90%; that is, it seems that pediatricians want to stay in Galicia and we have more in proportion than the rest of communities. In our autonomous community from 2010 to the year 2018, children of paediatric age increased from 313,608 to 309,092. Unfortunately — as I say, one of the serious problems we have, births — we have reduced the number of children: 4,516 children. If we look at the ratios of children per pediatrician — I also think it is important — according to the latest data from the Ministry, 2017, in Galicia we have 941 children per pediatrician; the average of the national health system is 1,018 children. Communities like Madrid have 1,162; Castilla-La Mancha, 1,057; and Extremeura, 1,043. So I also think it's a positive data for Galicia: the number of children per pediatrician is less than half, it's less than practically all autonomous communities. It's also a reality the difficulty of recruiting new pediatricians, as there's zero unemployment. But, whenever possible, retirements, retirements, leave and vacations are covered; of course, as I say, when there is such a possibility. What measures? We don't stop taking action. What are the measures? First, annual calls for public job offers, in which we prioritize the categories proper to the first level of care, such as family doctors, primary care pediatricians, specialists in family and community nursing, also specialists in pediatric nursing — the few autonomous communities that we have the specialty and that we have already convened squares. In 2016 we convened ten primary care pediatrics squares and nine optional area specialist. In 2017, four nursing squares specialize in pediatrics. And in the 2018 offer, which we published just a short time ago, there are fifty-eight primary care pediatrics squares, twenty-seven for optional area specialists and four nurses specialists in pediatric care. The extension of retirement age. We've also extended the retirement age three years ago and since that date one hundred and sixteen primary care doctors and twenty pediatricians have extended in their service. We have given another solution to the problem. The transfer contest, permanent open. He also made specialists from other autonomous communities come. Stability. 88% of the structure template of the Galego Health Service is stable, 86% of the optional staff are stable. In particular, in pediatricians the stability logically rounds 100%, counting internal and fixed. Increase in training of specialists. Over the past few years, we have seen increasing the supply of MIR squares in family medicine and, as you well say, we can't in pediatrics; all the accredited squares we've got. We continue to request from the Ministry of Health, Consumers and Social Welfare the increase in the number of places we have accredited so that we can logically increase the position available to the training of more pediatricians; in particular, from twenty that we have accredited to twenty-six. What about this problem? Look, we've applied to Minister Carmen Montón, August 2018, and we'll repeat it to the new minister. In fact, as you know, on Monday, February 4, I held a meeting at the Ministry of Health, Consumers and Social Welfare with the Minister, with the Secretary General, and I will reiterate the need to increase that accreditation. That accreditation is requested, as I say, since August. What I ask you is political will so that at this time you can believe those six squares and in the next call for MIR power... of course we will approve the budget to form more pediatricians. I also told you about the need to take urgent action in the absence of specialists, not only the issue of more MIR squares, more accreditation, but also faster approval and titles of extra-Community specialists, or to carry out the total register of health professionals, which would lead us to planning -- I think -- of course, more sure than we have. I'm standing by for a reply. The minister told me she'd give me an answer in a couple of weeks. But, as I say, applications have been for some time. There's certainly a commitment by the Government of Greece to health care and its professionals. Primary care is an organizational model of success in which we have experienced improvements, both in diagnostic capacity and in resolution capacity. Health indicators, especially life expectancy, are among the best in the world. In order to wake up these improvements, we have, as you well know, a plan of work with groups of improvement in primary care, which logically also affects pediatricians, with which we have a relationship since then I think very important, and of course, all the measures we're taking are always from the hands of professionals, who know perfectly well how to operate. We are surely the autonomy that most measures are taking and that it has more in portfolios. And, of course, on our part, we will continue to insist, and surely, as you will support us, the Ministry will probably believe the remaining squares. In addition, one of the measures adopted is the new contractual modality that will allow for broader temporary links of family medical staff and primary care pediatricians, a January 24th resolution that was published in the OJD of January 31st and approved at the sectoral table few days ago. It is, of course, a contract that has only the Basque Country and that will give us stability so that everyone who wants to be with us will be able to have a stability of at least one year and up to three with economic conditions I think very important and, of course, making a programming of his life, with vacation planning and entering into the collection of targets for his activity. Ask yourself if we have good pediatric care in Galicia. I sincerely believe that yes, both in the field of primary care and hospitality. It's an accessible and resolute primary with competent professionals who are experiencing tensions, as I said, from the shortage of professionals, not only here, but in the rest of Spain and also in Europe. And he said if it was planned for Junta to make decisions on recruitment and stabilization. I think clearly Galicia is certainly betting to take action, and they keep taking more and more. More professional training. One of the measures, which comes in addition to the Association of Pediatrics, is the possibility of concentration of resources, as I said, that we use in the vacation period while we obviously do not have more professional. We said "no" to eliminate the pediatrics of primary care, as some autonomous community suggested to do; it does a very important group of countries in the European Union. And neither do we agree with the decrease in pediatric age, which was another of the proposals on the table. For us the current model is a very good model, which, of course, has the possibility of improvement as soon as we have more professional. But, as I say, I believe that, in addition to the collaboration that the Ministry is sure to give us, we'll have them soon. Of course, you also ask yourself if you are committed to agreeing with the Government of Spain to speeding up the accreditation process of training squares in pediatrics. It's the ministry that does it. We ask it to be done. And, as I say, since August, these six additional squares have been requested so that we can form more pediatricians in Galicia as soon as there is a new call. He doesn't understand the extraordinary call from MIR either. It's very easy. This was done in 1995 and 1996. We asked for accreditation not only of these pediatrics but also of more primary care and other specialties in this period, so that by the middle of the year we could make an extraordinary call to those additional squares. The theater that puts her more chairs; we'd put more chairs in the theater so there'd be more people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u323	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u324	...with which, we would also pay the pensions of the next few years of professionals in both primary and hospital care. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u325	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u326	Thank you, President. Counselor, I think we agree on some things, disagree on others; in the end, dessert always contributes. I'm going to try to mix with what we agree with and where we disagree from our point of view, to see if I can trust a more reasonable speech. On the distribution and use of ratios to justify assistance, let me express it in such a way as to be a little easier: Galicia cannot manage with an Excel sheet or Google Maps, but not even, although I can express it this way, with a much more solemn tone the President of the Union has said — and it is a question we can agree on — that we have to reassess the model of self-financing, because some services — and in particular health care — in Galicia have more cost because we have to attend a geographical distribution quite different from the rest of Spain. I mean, we can't use more ratios than the accumulation of cities like Madrid, Barcelona or Valencia allows, where the accumulation of people around the same place is much easier to manage in terms of services than here, which we have a much more notorious dispersion. This is a quite logical reasoning, which I'm sure you share, but that you don't quite include in the valuation to say that we can compare ourselves in ratios to big cities. It is not possible to compare the cost of the service and the need to approach the service, if that's what we want to approach, in the Complaints Chain that in Bilbao, because it's not possible. About the contract model, it's a curious suggestion about a space where you defend there's zero unemployment. It doesn't make much sense to defend the goodness of a model that is supposed to work on eventuality in a space where there is zero unemployment. But that discrepancy of discursive coherence is already another matter. On the MIR issue, I thank you for clarifying something that is important. You ask for more accreditation of squares. I say it's important because you, Mr. President of the Board, have been saying for many weeks that what you ask for is an extraordinary summons to have more MIR. It's not true. You ask for extraordinary accreditation, you don't want MIR anymore, because you know -- and you just said it -- that what you need is that you believe them at once in other places. Well, therefore, when you defend an extraordinary summons saying that with this summons we're going to have more squares, it's a lie. We need first to believe and then will have the ability to convene the squares. So, here, as you've been at other meetings in the Ministry, in the Human Resources Committee -- where, by the way, you haven't said anything about this, because there, of course, everybody knows what's going on and you can't argue what you're arguing about here in some ways, because you know that they're taking you out of your ears, with forgiveness of expression -- do you know what you're asking for is an extraordinary call from MIR? [[Murmurs.]] No, what he's asking is that they believe her exceptionally. By the way, what's supposed to paralyze MIR's call to exceptionally believe is that we don't have this call this year. Because, besides, you know that, as the previous minister said that no more doctors are missing, there was curiously a huge drawer with five credits from all over Spain without evaluating. You ask this government to solve in seven or eight months the problems that it has not solved in seven years of government Rajoy. Man, we're seven times better, but it hasn't given us time yet. Don't worry, don't worry. [[Applause]] I think we'll soon see that we have four normals and that's where we're going to solve the whole problem, no problem. So, since I see that you've clarified the confusion that you're moving on about that extraordinaryly now new MIR we're going to have more professionals, which is not true, you're asking for accreditation, i.e. the permission to expand that theater, which has the lands on the side, which are not going to build where it isn't and those things. So, you don't have your boots yet, you can't sell your tickets; put your boots on, it's a good measure. You raise some other questions that you mentioned here about some measures, about retirement age, a reasonable measure in the sense that it is in the short term, but it is a reasonable measure in that sense. You defend that you don't agree with the suppression of primary pediatric care, not even with the reduction of age of attention, which we agree with you, because we share that position. You see we've shared some things. But it is therefore important at least that we draw this idea that we are going to agree that you have to do the process to request accreditation, that the Ministry should believe, that you are going to ask more places and that the Ministry should grant more places. And in that process we agree, but at least we've made it clear at what point they really are and not what they say they are. I know that he will now answer me in a different way on some of the issues I have left before, because I have no time to reply, that this is the reasonable one, but it is also true that — I tell you — be careful about arguing with MIR, that of the extraordinary summons, because I am going to quote a Member of this House. Do you think you can be asking for MIR calls like that? That's not that easy. And I didn't tell him -- we can hear him -- be careful because they told him in the People's Group not long ago. So we agree with you, but be careful, it won't be that the People's Group doesn't agree with you, which I don't know if it happens, but it's not my question. We're going to agree on that, because we're going to make that proposal, and I understand, by your intervention, that we're going to agree, so at least we've reached an agreement, and next...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u327	Thank you, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u328	...motion can be substantial. I hope they don't do as in Ourense hemodynamics, eh! Vote for it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u329	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Close this interrogation, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u330	The truth is that, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is curious, Mr Torrado: it seems wrong to blame Mr Sánchez, but Mr Rajoy is guilty of everything that happens in health care. [[Murmurs.]] Look, we said earlier that we're talking a lot about the situation in primary care. That's why it's good to remember that the best health service rated by citizenship is, according to the health barometer, always health care. The percentage of people who used the service that values primary care as good or very good in 2017 in Galicia was 88.5% and in Spain, 87.5%; we're above it. In the Galego Health Service we bet on the maintenance, as we said, of the current model of pediatric care specialized in health centers for children and children in Greece. The proof of this is that currently the coverage of this assistance by pediatricians in Galicia is almost 90%. That is, out of the total squares 90% are covered by pediatricians, a higher percentage, as we said, in the middle of Spain and, of course, far above communities like Balearics or Castilla-La Mancha. And all of this, given that Spain is one of the European countries that keeps this coverage at the first level of assistance; we said it was seven of the twenty-nine that participated in this study. From the Health Council and the Galego Health Service, we work and take measures to alleviate the shortage of professionals. It is necessary to point out that Galicia, in addition to exhausting 100 per cent of the replenishment rate, is the only autonomous community that maintains the annual calls of the OPE and that it will allow on the 2017-2020 horizon that about five thousand people access to a stable square. We call for an increase in the capacity to train specialists. The MIRs who finish their training in Galicia have many opportunities to exercise in our community. In fact, 80% of the family doctors who finished this year are hired by Sergas; of the sixty-nine family doctors who finished this year, MIR, fifty-five are in contract with Sergas, a percentage that for the set of specialties is around 65%. It must be borne in mind that not all the MIRs that conduct training here are of Greek origin and that they may therefore prefer to opt for their autonomous communities or countries of origin or either to join the private sector. For the primary care field, we have this new contractual modality that will allow for broader temporary links of family medical staff and primary care pediatricians. We approved it not only at the Council level but also at the union level; we all agree. And say, what's this for if all the pediatricians are working? Precisely to attract other communities or even the neighbouring country friend, the Portuguese country. Of course, with stability like the one we're giving ourselves, they can't compete with other autonomous communities. This could be translated through a new temporary appointment of duration, as I said, not less than a year to cover emergencies and other staff needs, in order to ensure continuity of care. As you see, we work plannedly to increase stability, retain talent and improve working conditions, ultimately, for our professionals to feel careful. And, logically, we will continue to follow this line, we will continue to work with the only objective of ensuring pediatric care in a stable and continuous way, strengthening primary care. Look, in the Ministry we don't ask for an extraordinary accreditation, we ask for six squares, six squares, which in August we send the papers to Madrid... - yes, yes, the next day I'm going to bring you the corresponding reports where it is indicated; what we want you to do is do the accreditations, non-extraordinary accreditations - from August to the present date because the truth is there's time I think it's enough. [[Murmurs.]] Anyway, I hope, with your interaction with the Ministry, that in the coming weeks we can have a positive response. And we, with an extraordinary MIR request, don't want to stop what's already. As you well know, what's already done in January. So we're not going to stop, but if we want, as was done in 1995 and 1996, another one with all the accredited squares that are pending and prioritized by each autonomous community. Specifically, in Galicia we prioritized the family squares, to reach the one hundred twenty-four accredited squares, and those of pediatrics, to reach the twenty-six. With that, we would feel, of course, I think we're already happy, because we're going to have a higher answer than we have right now. It's not impossible, it's possible, and it's just lack of political will. I ask the Ministry from here for political will to be able to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u331	Thank you, Counselor. Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the Greek Government in the face of the state of public health in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u332	To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u333	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. This last Sunday the streets of Compostela overflowed with thousands of Welsh and Welsh people who wanted to defend public health, wanted to make a call that you, the People's Party, would not follow for that destruction of public health. Thousands of Welsh and Welsh against the cuts of the People's Party's Government, against privatization, against the lack of staff, against the lack of pediatricians, against the precariousness of staff; thousands of people, professionals and neighbours. And in response to these health policies, the response given by the Government of the United Nations, the People's Party, is the denial of the problem. Sergas' manager immediately left, because you were quite missing on this issue, on Galician TV, making statements in the media. You, no. He comes here today because there's no other one left — if not, we don't see him either. And today morning we came and heard the president of the board in a new exercise of escapism and negationism to say that in front of the health situation in Galicia there are two versions -- so bold -- there are two versions, as if this were about versions; we can hear the subtitled version or the original version. So he said, every pancho, that there were two versions: the BNG version, in an unheard-of attempt to destabilize public health, and the People's Party version, that original version of which we have a magnificent health, of the best in the world, of which they feel very proud. And that's it, we can close. And since this is about versions, because we're left with version A or version B. I want to ask you, is this, this is a picture of Quintana last Sunday; I suppose you've already had a chance to see her, right?We didn't pass the Photoshop, we didn't pass the filters, no, it's Quintana's picture, and a lot of people didn't pass. [[Mr. Prado Colors displays a photograph.]] I suppose you will be able to imagine that all these people have not been dragged, have not been mobilized by version B, by version of the People's Party, that Welsh health is wonderful and that there is absolutely no problem. I suppose these thousands of people—you've seen them, haven't you?, if you want to let them tell you?—there were professionals here—if, if you want, tell us—there were thousands of people, and really very worried, really worried about the health situation, Counsellor. Because it's not about versions, it's about the situation you're taking to public health in our country. And there were these thousands of people because the health situation is one of the issues that the most social alarm is causing in Galician society, the severe deterioration in public health, a deterioration that is the result of the severe cuts and privatizations the People's Party has been carrying out since 2009, since they returned to Galician Union in 2009. And the health policy of Nuñez Fexóo in front of the board of Galicia, first with a counselor, then with another, and now with you, of course, is an ideological choice of turning the right to health into a business for related groups. They've been handed over to companies, vastly and mostly outside of Galicia, a very important part of public health for them to do business. And that situation is causing the massive rejection of professionals and the growing proximity of our country. And, in the face of that situation, there is a wave of very obvious discomfort, in the face of which of course it is not worth propaganda and that account in which you are still installed, that nothing happens, because, of course, it happens. The CAP professionals have been mobilising for over a year now, claiming, passing him a demanding table, first on a partial strike, now on an indefinite strike, and still waiting for your answer, Counsellor. They continue to demand that he attend that demanding table and above all demand more effective ones to be able to give a quality of care in conditions and not to have these working days — they have been described on many occasions — where they end up exhausted, exhausted, and where they put their professionalism at risk and above all have been denounced that they put the health and life of the Greeks and the Greeks at risk. Now that's clear, that risk was obvious, people have already died, and in the face of that situation, you're still not reacting. So, today we do an interpellation. You have here in writing, in detail, the questions, with which I hope you don't play the trick to say that we've come here not to ask you about the things you're putting in the interrogation. The interpellation we make to him today is detailed. The first question is how far they are willing to reach this policy of harassment and the result of public health. In the face of existing malaise, both at the professional level and in the neighbourhood, their policies will be rectified or they will continue to endanger the health of the Greeks and the Greeks. If they're going to answer, they'll meet the demands of the CAP staff. 061, urgent health transport, scheduled health transport, are on strike; if you follow this policy of "with you will not go," from March on it will become indefinite. The Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia has already annulled the minimum services decreed by you as abusers and not adjusted by law—it has done so on other occasions—and once again you continue to abuse and decree minimum services above the usual staff; they did it in the CAP, they did it in the CHUS emergencies, they do it in the 061; that is, a genuine disproposition. Massive resignation of heads of service in Vigo's health area, the primary health care professionals in Pontevedra and O Salnés, are already being organized, they are already being told that resources are needed, primary care is required with resources, with resolution capacity. The question is, will you correct what you didn't want to rectify when the amendment to the Health Act when we told you that primary care had to have a resolution capacity, it had to have its own management, you had to have resources? Will they accept what they voted against the law that brought here the BNG to provide primary care of at least 200 million euros so that there are sufficient resources to meet that immediate demand? They're pretty clear, pretty simple questions. The CHUS emergencies have been on strike for 14 weeks. At first you said no, that there was nothing to talk about; now they seem to be in the right direction, they're taking part in the demands of professionals, to those who seem not enough. Will they definitely meet the demands, especially more professional, so that they can end the strike and the CHUS emergencies can be met in condition? This week they come back to the judges in demand for help, whenever the Council does not meet their demands and the runners again collapse, just like other emergency services in our country. They're telling you all and all, Counsellor, that you're not in the working group phase, you're not in the debate, because all this is under discussion, the proposals are on the table. They're moving you that you're not in the debate but taking responsibility, rectifying cuts and privatizations; they're telling you absolutely everything. So from the BNG we also asked you if you're going to take any real steps to end this temporality or if you're going to keep doing what you do, you're going to continue with proposals that no one is accepting. You have just launched a contract for primary care that the affected themselves are telling them it's not worth, they're telling you that this contract perpetuates the eventuality, that they want to make a contract covered by an area doctor, as they wanted to do in pediatrics, and that that's not what they need, that with that contract they force them to work up to thirty-one hours uninterruptedly, that it's perpetuating what there is, that it's such a small advance that you say they're copying the Basque Country model, but they only copied the title, none of the improvements that really meant that Basque Country contract, which, without being the best, of course improved. And you're going to rectify, are you going to listen to these professionals who are telling them that this contract really doesn't solve their problems or end with the precariousness and they're going to carry out a decent recruitment policy for all the professionals? Because you're now hiding behind the problem that there's no doctors. What's wrong? No nurses or nurses either? Why do they continue to deny that there is complete equipment in the CAP, because what they demand is that there be a doctor, nurse. Why can't you hire nurses if there are recruitment lists where there are nurses and nurses who are likely to be hired? You have the questions here in detail. As I told you, Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u334	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u335	...what are you going to do with primary care, whether you're going to continue along the path of privatization or proceed to reverse the achievements, and if you're going to work to remove the waiting lists, those fake waiting lists, so masked, that they bring us in? And while, in order to be able to derive from private health, public health resources are the medium gas. I hope that in his turn, Counselor, may he be able to answer all the questions, which he has there in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u336	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u337	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I, of course, respect all the people who manifest themselves; total and absolute with regard to these manifestations. I have to tell you, in addition, that you have been a member of that bipartisan government, that we can make comparisons like that argumentary of yours about the cuts we're doing in health care. In 2008, budgets now have EUR 346 million more than in the Bipartite. 35.7 % was the total budget of the Union at the time of the Bipartite, 40,5 % at the moment, 5 points more. The professional average has increased from that year 2008, to the present at 6.5%. Family physicians and pediatricians, 5.5%. Nursing staff, 7.9%. More than 72 surgeries have increased, 37%. Annual surgical interventions, 19.5%; major outpatient surgery, 39.144, the double goes up to the previous situation. Wait a half surgically, we're down eight days, 11% less. Priority one, we're down 52%. The Galego Health Service works on different strategies of continuous improvement that reduce the expectation of patients to be treated for surgery, a health consultation or a diagnostic test. Thanks to the work of the thirty-eight thousand workers, who have a total of thirty-eight million health acts over a year, because we are in that process of continuous improvement. In a surgical intervention the average waiting time right now, as I say, is 61.6 days, five days less than in December 2017; it's the smallest time since there are records. Also in first consultation we went down on the previous year 7.4 days. In the surgical wait at national level and telling us the latest data we have insurance -- it's June data, because the rest of the autonomous communities have not yet published the December data -- we had 59.8 days, the fourth community in the seventeen totals of Spain. Those who wait for more than six months in an intervention in Galicia are 2.8%, and in the rest of the state, 12.2%. In the first health consultations, the data compared to the national health system, we are exactly 37.3 days away, and the measure of the national health system in 57 days. As for diagnostic or therapeutic tests, most of the waiting indicators follow the same trend as for the surgical waiting for sick consultations. Despite these good results, we continue to promote and strengthen improved actions, aimed at ordering the care activity, and establishing coordination mechanisms between the different levels of assistance, as well as tools for monitoring and evaluating time and resources management. We have 100 percent public health, with new infrastructures, all the attention and attention paid by professionals in the Galician Health Service. Therefore, there are no clippings, nor is there any privatization. And to this we have to add that the amount allocated to concerts with private centres between 2004 and 2008 — they will know that period — has increased by 44 per cent, and from 2009 to today, exactly right now, has decreased by 5.7 per cent. There are more rights and better services for the citizen. The decree of maximum times was made to favor private, as you said. I recall in Parliament various interventions by your particular person, in which I said it was to favour private people. For at this time forty-three thousand people were benefited by this right and none of them needed to derive from the private. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to tell you about the facts, the realities that make our community better. The Health Insurance Act is a fact, it's a reality, which allowed the recognition of more rights for our patients. Today there are new means of prevention, for example, thanks to a screening system, similar to breast cancer, for colon cancer, and this year also for cervix cancer. The Health Act, which has given more participation, more services, closer to citizens. The reduction in waiting times is also a reality. New infrastructures are a fact. We continue to invest in expanding and improving hospitals: Salnés, The Navy, The Barbanza, Ferrol, Great Montecelo, The Coruña, The Mexeiro, and also building and reforming health centers; the latter: Ares, The Milladoiro, The Road, The Laracha, Narón. We improve the situation of our professionals with the recovery of wages, with the recognition of the professional career — by the way, with a broad union agreement —, with the invitation to open and permanent transfers to promote and facilitate voluntary mobility and the reconciliation of the working and family life of Sergas professionals, as well as the permanent coverage of care needs. We improve the tools of professionals: electronic recipe, consultation, electronic clinical history, quick track, telephone consultation, etc. We know that we have good public health, but we also know that our health needs to adapt to new needs and continue to improve. We're working to improve it, building on real data and facts and especially counting on the collaboration of professionals and patients. We have excellent, accessible and resolute primary care, equipped with competent professionals, with a proper budget, but that is suffering from tensions arising to a large extent from the progressive increase in demand, which is coupled with the shortage of professionals to cover squares, in particular family doctors and pediatricians, of course, recognized by members of the opposition that this is not a Greek problem, is a national and European problem. But it's time to go further. The changes that the organizational model needs will only be possible from the dialogue and collaborative work of administrations, professionals and citizenship. Galicia is once again pioneering, also in taking measures to improve the model to agree on a work plan with the professionals. In further steps to move forward, on December 18, 2018 we convened a meeting with representatives of all categories of health and management areas, schools of professionals and societies of family doctors, nursing specialists in primary care, members of the Health Advisory Council and scientific societies. Six enhancement groups were set up to address reorganization and team-building to identify the new professional roles that work in primary care, every day more complete. The measures geared to quality and safety demand care, the prioritization of the investment plan planned for 2019 in primary care, the relationships between hospital care and primary care — a fundamental element — training and research and relationships with patients through new technology platforms applied to health. The agreed work plan was programmed to be able to count on the first findings of the experts this February. By the way, the Ministry of Health copied this path taken by Galicia, with the establishment of working groups as well. One of the measures that has already been adopted is the new contractual modality that will allow for broader temporary links of primary care medical staff and pediatricians. I want to tell the BNG spokesperson that it was approved by a broad union representation, even the IGC union. We are currently assessing other measures such as the modification of the directive structure in the health areas, to create a primary care direction that is the unique contact with health centres through the head of service. We want to carry out the changes that need primary attention from the dialogue and collaboration of all. The steps are already begun and, as I said before, we will soon have the conclusions of the work done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u338	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u339	Honestly, Mr. Padre, I believe that when you have the reality in front of your eyes, in front of your eyes, and you don't want to see it, because you have two options: try to change your glasses to see if you see it or wait for a tsunami to pass over it and tear it down. I don't know which of the two things you'll prefer. But you said there's nothing wrong here. There are these two realities. You're still opting for the reality that nothing happens here. Every mobilization that there are more than thousands of Welsh and Welsh people on the street, they are more professionals who tell them because they don't believe their story, and you're here today sentence — so far—: "There are no cuts, there is no privatization; there are no cuts, there is no privatization." Counselor of Health said, and that's it, we can go so quietly. Look, when Aznar privatized and sold AP-9, he also said he wasn't privatizing, of course, and remained as calm as you. I suppose they went to the same FAES school; I don't know, they went to the same school; of course, they go to the same school, and then they lie with the tranquillity of those who do it every day and stay so calm. [[Applause]] Look, you, in front of that reality of public health in which all professionals are telling you not to set up work groups, which you don't care about, you keep talking here about slaves, vaccines, I don't know what things, when you don't, Counsellor. They're asking for real measures, they're asking you to end this recruitment policy, more resources, changes in budgets. Today the president said yes, that he was going to modify the budget for primary care. You dare say here how much change you will make for primary care. The president in the morning also dared to say I don't know what is more professional in primary care from 2009 to today. Now you've said the same thing again. Look, I'm going to tell you one thing: in budgets -- this role you bring here -- they say that between 2009 and 2019 in primary care there are 15.25% less professionals, 1,424 less professionals. In 2009 there were 9,338, and in 2019, 7,914. In your budgets! I suppose 7,914 is less than 9,338. I don't know what Mr. President thinks, I don't know if it's math, but that's what his budgets say. [[Mr Prado Cores shows a document to Mr President]] I say it because, really, it's already so tired that you make up the numbers and tell them what you want! The Board of Auditors, in its 2016 audit report, which is the latest, says that in 2009 there were 38,747 professionals, and in 2016, 37,648, in general, with which there are fewer 1,099. These are the official documents, and of course it's boring that you continue to make up professionals around here, over there, pachi, palla; indeed, pachi, palla, professional up and down, where you don't know where they're taken from. It would be a little serious if they came here and said where they get those figures that they make up. I want to tell you to finish, Counselor, that, when someone has everyone against it, questioning the policy that is being carried out, because it is taking the public health of our country, of Galicia, to the disaster, if you have a little dignity, what you have to do is resign, what you have to do is resign, because, if you agree with the public health policy of the People's Party and the President of the Union, then you are so responsible for carrying it out. [[Murmurs.]] And if it is questioned by everyone, then resign, and if you do not agree, then resign, to say: I do not agree with this health policy. Because you can't come here, cross your arms and talk to us about squabbling, when there's all that questioning out there, or hiding and not going out to answer, sending the manager of Sergas, or disappearing like Guadiana every three, and the best thing you can do to the public health of this country is resigning, being aware that with his resignation the problems of public health will not end. But if you have a little dignity, what you have to do is resign, because, of course, it's the highest responsibility. And Galicia's public health situation is now on its way to the precipice. You don't have any answers on the table, nor for the professional collectives, who are demanding answers, for the CAPs, for primary care, for emergency services, for either one of them, or for the neighborhood — who are asking for answers to the lack of professionals, the waiting lists in primary care, those ten-five days when they're going to apply for an appointment -- neither for those continuous collapses, and for those waiting lists about which you know it's a lie to the data they give here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u340	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u341	It's so many fronts that it's open that they can't be solved with patches or propaganda. There's a need for a radical shift in course, and as you're not willing to hit the table and make that radical shift in course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u342	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u343	...the best thing you can do, Mr. Padre, is resign and pass on to someone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u344	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Close the interrogation, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u345	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, look, to a lot of honor, I studied in the public school of Cova Terreña, in Baiona; now it's called CPI of Cova Terreña, and then in the high school, public institute; I studied there with a lot of honor — as I say —. I answer the question directly: I will not resign. [[Applause]] Look, how the data really has to defend that data, right? Because of speaking, of course, you have a lot of experience, but you have to give data. In primary care we compared the budgeting of the operating staff chapters, chapters 1 and 2, in 2008, comparing it with the year 2008, we are 25 million above. What is very relevant is to point out that in revenue we were able to take efficiency measures, thanks to the commitment of professionals — generics, centralised purchases, catalogues — which allowed the budget devoted to this chapter to be reduced by 128 million euros. That's where you find the download of the primary care budget, in the revenue chapter, because there's a greater management. But right now, of course, we have a lot more recipes per citizen, with an older population, and we have, thanks, as I say, for efficiency measures, and counting on the collaboration of professionals, to decrease. And we say that there are 1,544 professionals more than in 2008 and with better working conditions, such as careers, for example. OPE annual calls, between 2012 and 2016 we offer 1,606 squares; in the period 2017-2018 we take 3,016, and we will soon remove the OPE this year. In the 2017-2020 period we have offered the possibility of stabilising ourselves to 5,000 people; that is the goal, and we are, as we see from the outset, following that strategy that we have established and, in addition, also agreed with most trade unions in the stabilization plan. The delay in retirement age we took it three years ago — by the way, the Minister of Health said the other day that it could be a very important step that all the autonomous communities took; we, as I say, have been three years, have been 116 family doctors who have maintained and continue to work with us and 20 other pediatricians. As I said, also open and permanent competition to attract professionals and stability, trying to reach the minimum possible with potential. There's always got to be possible in the health service. Why? Because we don't replace loose days, which in other public services doesn't happen. Rate of patients by primary care physicians, 1,275, below the national average, which is in 1,357. By the way, in the Bipartite, in a drawn-up report, it was said, of course, to reach 1,275, as it was intended, it was something unrealistic and they knew it couldn't be. Right now we're in Galicia on those levels. And, as I said before, children as a pediatrician, we also have much less as a pediatrician than other autonomous communities. And we're going to increase the MIR squares in those specialties that we have of efficiency and where they're accredited. In family medicine three-four years ago, we were in 92, we went up to 95, and right now we're in 105, and we want to get, if we believe the Ministry, to 124 more a year. We continue to demand, as I said, accreditation, an accreditation not extraordinary but an accreditation that we've been waiting for many months for it and hope that, of course, it can be done. Of course, if the Ministry is involved, we will be able to offer in the next MIR offer more pediatrics squares and also more family doctors' squares. By the way, the budget to pay the MIR is always from the Autonomous Community; here we are not asking for funding, but only that we ask for accreditation. Mrs. Prado, you should bear in mind that health should not be as bad as you are trying to say when health indicators are the best in Spain -- and if we say Spain, it's like saying about Europe and, of course, the world -- improving over time, having resulted in one of the longest populations in the world, after Japan. Regarding the medicines — which there is always that... — Galicia is the third community with the highest public spending/inhabitant/year in pharmacy. But if you wanted to say something very important, that when you analyze the treatment collection guidelines, it is clearly observed that the medication collection associated with chronic treatments is very high, above 90%, regardless of the income the patient has. I mean, he has more possibility and he's going to pick up the medication that he needs, because he's a chronic patient, regardless of income -- as he said. And, of course, we're talking about the average pensioners pay per month in pharmacy is 4.10%, which is less than 5.6% of the total cost of medicines in low-income pensioners in community pharmacy, and 0% in hospital pharmacy. The cost of medication for citizens starts to show significant increases in age ranges...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u346	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u347	...from 50 to 54, which already exceeds the range of EUR 200 per year, and the trend continues to rise to 85-90. Making, of course, new personal measures, infrastructure measures, it's like always defending public health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u348	Thank you, Counselor. Change in agenda development
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u349	We now enter the seventh point of the agenda, the question to the Government, with the eighth question, that of Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo Question from Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and three other Members from the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the fulfilment of the convention signed with the Provincial Deputy of Pontevedra on 22 January 1991 and ratified in 2000 with respect to the building of Lourizán, in Pontevedra
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u350	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u351	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Mr. Rueda, I don't know if you're a filmmaker and you could go see "The shadow of the law," it's a film that debuted last year, that got six Goya awards and is nominated for fifteen Master Mateo prizes. Well, in that movie, the building -- this -- is what we're going to talk about today, which is Lourizán's palace. [[Mrs. Vilan Lorenzo shows a photograph.]] And you're in this area and you probably know Lourizán's palace, I don't know if he could see it in the movie. That was where, in the film, politicians of the time met and made important decisions. This happened also in reality, because it was the summer place of Montero Ríos, who was president of the Government, and also there were important political decisions, and he also had a lot of cultural activity and intellectual activity within the palace. The truth is that it is part of Galician cultural heritage. It is a 19th century building, built by the architect Genaro de la Fuente, which has an impressive facade with a stone balustrade and a stairway and statues that are worthy to see. In that film only comes out the facade of Lourizán's palace. What's rolling inside, because it's not really in the courtroom. Because until now with this photograph I'm actually lying to the House. That's not Lourizán's palace. The palace of Lourizán right now is this, and this, and this, and this, and this, and this, and this, and this, which is not the caves of Drach, is the palace of Lourizán. [[Mrs. Vilan Lorenzo shows a series of photographs.]] And, then, it is necessary to know who is responsible for the palace being like this, made a piltraph, Mr. Wheela. It is owned by the Deputy of Pontevedra. The answer could be: it is the responsibility of the Deputy of Pontevedra. But in 1991, on 22 January, the Agriculture Council signed an agreement with the Deputy, so the Deputy gave him the palace, the use of the farm and buildings until 2021 to the Galician Council, and it was ratified in 2000 through another agreement. Clause 3a (b) states: "The works of conservation of the noble area of the estate of Lourizán correspond to the Union of Galicia". Therefore, the responsibility for its preservation lies with the Council of Galicia. You didn't. You just need to see the photographs and maybe ask the team who filmed "The Shadow of the Law" if you've done some single work in the palace, because the answer is no. We'd like to know, Mr. Rueda, that you're so proud to comply with the law, when you're going to fulfill the obligations that you yourself have undertaken through the agreement...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u352	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u353	...of 1991. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u354	Thank you. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u355	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Vilan, in fact, I saw the film "The shadow of the law," a magnificent film; I was, invited by the producer, on the stage; a magnificent producer from Greece too, to which I wish even more success with the film, in which, in fact, the palace of Lourizán went out and went far better than it really is. And the question you ask is, who's responsible for Lourizán's palace being made a piltraph? The question is clear and the recipient too: this question was for Mrs. Carmela Silva; you use me as an interposed person. I understand that today the President of the Parliament has no less of his best day, no matter how much he tries to conceal it, but, if he was here, he wouldn't have to answer something different to what I'm going to tell him and that you know perfectly, that the Council of Galicia had a solution to rehabilitate the palace and give him a new life, far beyond his conservation duties, which go far beyond that. You're talking about reconstruction. In fact, the agreement talks about conservation duties, but we wanted a lot more: we wanted an integral rehabilitation, a new life for the palace, 10 million investments (5 to rehabilitate the palace and 5 for the projects that were going to develop there). There were going to be laboratories, there would be a pilot plant for microprojects, there would be meeting rooms, there would be common areas for researchers, there would be developing forest R & D projects, there would be development projects related to bioeconomics, a pioneering project as regards the valorization of lignin for biorefinery. All that would be done, and all that would be done without costing them a euro, no money, to public resources, that is, to the taxes of the Greeks and the Greeks. All this is going to be done by keeping the Administration on the terms and conditions of the assignment. And since it was an assignment, all that would be done without the administrations ever lost the title of the palace. All that would be done, even Mr. Mosquera said, the deputy vice president: "to start tomorrow, to make sure it's a lighthouse." You know what happened? That, when they saw that it was not a lighthouse, they became afraid of it, that that the current rulers of the Pontevedra Deputy had always been able to recognize anything that was supposed to say that the Council of Galicia does well things, as it does many times, that the Council of Galicia was able to tear off the Ence — if it wanted the word "to tear it off", "to reach an agreement with them", whatever it was, because they were not in agreement with the extension of the concession — many investments for Pontevedra, among them 10 million to give a new life to the Lourizán Passover. What happened? That in the policy of confrontation, in the politics of those who comply with the law — we can discuss a lot about it, about the enforcement of the law of the Madam President of the Parliament, you say that yes, at last the courts take your reason, but in the end the truth and truth is that there was nothing done all this time, there was a plan of the Parliament and finally the palace follows as it is. They had four years to do something for you, too, they didn't do anything, there's nothing left for them three months. From the month of June I hope that the palace of Lourizán...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u356	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u357	...may have a second life, because you can no longer say that nothing can be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u358	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u359	Thank you, President. Mr. Rueda, it is unfortunate that you come here saying that you had a solution from 1991 until the Ence has been extended to it for sixty years, which will rest all your life on Mariano Rajoy's back and back. Until that time, since 1991 you haven't done any single work in Lourizán? And in the meantime, what have you been doing? Because this agreement, at the end of the day, expressly states: "The agreement will be automatically extended, unless the parties complain with a year in advance of the expiry of the initial period". And you didn't report it. That means that until the year 2021, the conservation works of the Lourizán palace are theirs, of their government, not of the Deputy of Pontevedra. You didn't return the palace. Have you returned the palace to the Deputy of Pontevedra? Did you give up that assignment that you had received again? No, no, no, no. It is the property of the Deputy, but the responsibility of conservation remains yours, and you haven't done it. And it's not true that you tell us right now that it would cost the Administration zero. Why didn't the extension to Ence to the administration cost the citizens of Pontevedra absolutely nothing, either, Mr. Rueda? Do you think, as the president of the board said this morning, that the Greeks and the Greeks are fools? We're not, Mr. Rueda, we're not. [[Applause]] You have an obligation, and it is to keep Lourizán's palace. You've probably done a calculation, through the fusion of Sardinian-Cotobade, of motions of censorship in Pontevedra province, including the motion undercover in Sanxenxo, to re-take the MP in the next municipal elections, and with that possibility to regain the possibility of having the palace again for the Deputy of Pontevedra and you already make that repair. Meanwhile, you are doing something that belongs to all the neighbours and to Galician cultural heritage to undo by their disillusionment and carelessness, hoping that it will be a company to which you give an extension...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u360	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u361	...in the time of discount and not you and you do not assume your responsibility.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u362	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u363	It's quite regrettable, Mr. Rueda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u364	Thank you very much. For the Government's replication, you have the floor of the Vice-President and President-in-Office, Public Administration and Justice, Mr Rueda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u365	Mrs. Vilan, several things. First — it's enough — you're finished with arguments, and in two minutes you're able to talk about the same subject, you've already changed me to motions of censure. We're talking about Lourizán's palace, giving him two minutes to defend the argument, this time he didn't give it, and I'm sorry. You don't have a lot of arguments, because you don't want to be serious about that. We're going to be serious about the state of Lourizán's palace. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] To the first you say, did you offer the Deputy to recover the property? Listen, the Deputy, at some point, so worried about the state of the palace, so worried about the powers that he had to claim to the Board, do you think that at some point he said, "Will you give me back the palace of Lourizan, that we want to do something?" No, of course, they had no idea. They had no interest or public resources or any idea what they were going to do with it. That's why we had to find a solution. You tell me how much it cost the citizenry of Pontevedra... the extension of Ence. [[Murmurs.]] Look, 180 million euros in the social plan, which every year call for a lot of associations, a lot of citizens in Pontevedra, thanks to the signing of this extension agreement. That's what it cost them, it didn't cost them anything. They have EUR 3 million a year, 180 million during the extension of the agreement, and I am very glad that they are quite smarter, at least politically, the citizens of Pontevedra than you have believed today in this question, because everyone asks for the money of that agreement; therefore, he realizes that they are worthless and that they can take very much advantage. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, let's talk about what could have been done with Lourizán's palace. You know that in 2003... yes, it's true, Mrs. Vilán. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What's not normal is that you have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u366	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u367	...three minutes. And in a minute, she tells me things that don't have to do with the question and then, when I answer, she tries to interrupt me. Let's be serious about that, too. You take advantage of your time if you think you have things to say, but don't interrupt me in mine, that I didn't interrupt you at least. [[Applause]] In 2003, the Galician Union, ruled by the People's Party, announced that the headquarters of the National Park of the Atlantic Islands would be installed in the court of Lourizán. Of course, the Bipartite came and all that was forgotten, it was an idea of the People's Party, there's no need to do it. You immediately said you had another idea, they were going to put the Galician Central Meteorology Laboratory there, they were going to set up an experimental environmental resource centre... you know what happened? You know it perfectly: it's been four years, nothing at all. We had to get to Galicia's board again to find a solution, 10 million investments, it could already be done, it could already be creating jobs, it could already be seen in Pontevedra that that jewel — which, in fact, has to be recovered — could be recovered. As always, you, as I came from the board, didn't want to do anything at all. I'm glad you ask this question to give me the opportunity today, that Mrs. Carmela Silva shouldn't have much interest in talking. I'm just wondering if you're from the band that filtered what happened after the sentence that says there's a crime or the gang that didn't want to filter. That didn't make it clear to me, because of the rest of what I said about Mrs. Carmela Silva said nothing; that's because I'm right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u368	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question... [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr. Fernández Leiceaga asks for the floor.]] Tell me, why do you want the use of the word, Mr. Leicega?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u369	Yes, to ask the Vice-President of the Board to withdraw the inappropriate personal allusions he has made to our honourable Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u370	And what was the...? I'm sorry, what was the...? I asked Mr. Voicer of your group to... yes, I would appreciate it. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u371	He made two allusions which I think he should withdraw. First of all, saying that the citizens of Pontevedra had a much higher level of intelligence than that of the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u372	Quiet, quiet. Quiet, please! Mrs. Prado, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u373	And the second, by giving the honourable Member a filtration in relation to an administrative procedure of a council which is certainly not appropriate at all. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u374	Thank you, Mr. Leicega. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry, but I'm here now; then I'm in charge of the debate, if they don't care. I understand that in the second, there is no problem in that sense, Mr. Leicega, and there is no disrespect whatsoever; and in the first, I don't know whether the vice president intended to say... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't understand it that way, so I'm asking the vice president to tell me whether that was his intention or he was talking about political intelligence. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u375	Yes, Mr. President, I spoke of political intelligence. If Mrs. Vilán wants to be the smartest in all respects, there's no problem, she's clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u376	Well, understanding that there is no disrespect, we continue. Question 7.1. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please, you've had two spectacular days. Really, to see if we can end them like this. Question from Da María Angeles Cuña Bóveda, G.P. de In Marea, about the officials who are part of the mutuality that replaced the Galego Centre in Bos Aires in Ospaña
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u377	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Cuña Bóveda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u378	Good afternoon. Mr. President, thank you very much. Mr. Román, I suppose you'll answer me, because you've just arrived. Well, what we're talking about could also be answered by the Vice President, it's a very important issue and it's urgent. Time rushes, it's like chess games. You have to take notes and move notes. And moving chips corresponds to you if you really have the interest you expressed here on repeated occasions. We have to move here with regard to a fundamental issue, not the question of competence, which the Argentine Government has about, for example, the possible sale of the building of the Galego Center in Bos Aires, but they have full responsibility for the organization of Spain. [[Murmurs.]] I'd ask you, Mr. President, if it's possible...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u379	You're absolutely right. I would be grateful if you hadn't spoken or gone out, and listen to the honourable Member who is speaking, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u380	For us, and I think that for the whole opposition. There was also expressly a signature from this whole Parliament of an institutional statement supporting the Galego Centre in Bos Aires. But reality doesn't coincide with this alleged or supposed wish for support and concern. Indeed, if there is competition with respect to Spain. Ospaña — and has repeatedly been said here — was created to save the Galician Center of Bos Aires. But there was a maneuver, a very perverse maneuver, in 2014 and 2015, there were few letters, two notes, one sent by the Secretary General of Emigration, Mr. Rodríguez Miranda, and another by the Ambassador of Spain, both addressed to the President of Spain, asking them — it is obscene, ladies and gentlemen, it is absolutely obscene — what was asked? May the Galego Center in Bos Aires leave this organization created precisely for this, to protect the Galego Center in Bos Aires. It was necessary, when Ospaña was created, the participation of the Spanish Government, the Galician Union and the Galician Center, because it was the only way to operate in Argentina. What happened here? With Alejandro López Dobarro, with Santiago Camba, what did he do? Favoring the Galician Center, expelling it from Spain, with which prejudice is immense. What are we talking about? Of transparency, of emptyness, of corruption, of what are we talking about? Who do the officials report to? And that's why there's all the competences of this government. Here was a possible solution, Mr. Román, which was that the Galego Center in Bos Aires was once again a part, as it should never have left Spain. He must give us an explanation. Which officials are part of the mutual who replaced the Bos Aires Gale Centre in Ospaña, endorsed by the Union and the Government?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u381	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u382	I finish this first part and I look forward with great interest to an answer that we consider as very urgent and necessary.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u383	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuña. The Councillor for Culture and Tourism, Mr. Rodríguez González, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u384	Good afternoon. Mr President, Your Honor, I really thought I'd take the question away, honestly, and I'm sorry to say so with this coldness, but I think it's quite absurd in the background and in the form. And I'll explain why. I think we're in a situation where there's a certain obsession with blaming the Galician Union and the People's Party for a situation that has nothing to do with either the Union or the People's Party. I think you're clearly mistaken as an enemy. I think it's an attitude that, to some extent, is diverting attention to the real leaders of the current situation of the Galician Centre, and I think this question, as I said, is absurd. Because he did, and I'll try to reason. You record a question on February 4th in respect of a hypothetical celebration of an assembly on February 11th, or that there will be February 11th, i.e., cheering up, to which extent you try to say in your justification that what happens there is the fault of the board, or it is the responsibility of the board, or the attitude that takes the board depends on the resolution of the subject. That's what puts your explanatory statement. Well, first of all, I'll tell you that this assembly has not been held, this assembly has not been held; that is to say, the person who was elected president, as representative of the users of the Galician Center, has not taken possession, I don't know whether with good or bad judgment, but has not taken possession, and the speaker does not celebrate this assembly. Which from there everything you pose really doesn't make any sense. Because, moreover, then you think as if the Board had something to do with it or some ability to interfere with the decisions of that assembly, and there the Board has neither voice nor vote, it has neither voice nor vote nor is it said anything; it is a sovereign decision of some people who form a series of associations that integrate into a private cut-off mutuality that receives health care in this area. And then he also talks about a mutuality that replaces the Galego Center in Bos Aires. In no case does there exist any mutuality that replaces the Galician Centre. And you're also here to talk about the fact that if Ospaña has left the people of the center of Galicia. It was just the other way around: it was the Galician Center who didn't want to receive the people who sent him to Ospaña for his health treatments, claiming basically that they were older people and that they had to look for another way. With which I think you're frankly wrong and I don't understand...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u385	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u386	...—I don't know—I don't understand the ultimate reason for your question, because, as I just demonstrated, it doesn't support itself either in the background or in the form.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u387	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u388	Of course we know that two days ago this assembly was postponed. Mr Moyano, Argentina's legal intervener with regard to the Galician Centre, what he did was adjourned for three reasons he said: one, the macroeconomic situation of Argentina; two, the situation of the sector itself; three, the specificity of the Centre itself. But adjournment doesn't mean... we've been on this issue for a year and it's not settled. You don't answer the question. You're talking about argumentation. The absence is motivated by this, but it is absolutely relevant. Absurd is, at most, your answer. Obsession, none. Clarity is what we ask, explanations are what we ask. Because if you don't tell us that officials supported the mutual, mutual of children and workers who replaced the Galician Center in 2015, you're lying, it looks like the tango: Yira, yira, yira, yira, they're going to say that everything is a lie, they're going to say nothing is love, and the world doesn't care. But you should care. There is a very important question: can officials be held guilty? This is the question you have to answer. You know exactly what you're thinking. Do you know that Xunta officials are part of the mutuality of the children of migrants from Spanish residents in Argentina? This is checked, documents we all have. Then there may be not only an administrative problem; there may be, ladies and gentlemen, usurpation of functions; there may be activities prohibited to public officials and even, according to some advocates of prestigious contrast, crime of prevarication. We're not talking about nonsense or obsession.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u389	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u390	'Finished.' I ask for an answer to the question put...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u391	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u392	...that is perfect and congruently formulated. Don't go through other lanes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u393	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuña. Replica tour of the Government, Counsellor for Culture and Tourism, Mr Rodríguez González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u394	Mrs. Cuña, you used to talk about moving chips and reflecting a complex situation. That's where we agree. There's a very complex situation, which you have responsible for, you know, because, if you don't know, it would be worrying, that responsibility doesn't fall either in the Galician Union or in a Spanish political formation either, it falls in the Argentine Government. And I'm absolutely convinced too that we have to move chips. But you have to move chips about safe. You have to move chips without giving false steps or perverse effects, because those legal threats you pose, if you take false steps, maybe we fall into the trap or fall into the traps that you want to pose. Of course there are representatives of the Spanish Government and the German Government in Ospaña. But there's no official, no official. There are three representatives: one is the delegate of the Union, another is the ambassador of the Kingdom of Spain and another is the labour adviser of the Kingdom of Spain. And Spain is an administrative body that provides a service to Spanish citizens, of course also Greeks, all kinds of Spaniards, and Greeks, who hires health services with a series of mutualities as was the Galician Center, and it was the Galician Center who decided not to give service or not to accept Spanish and Greek users sent by Spain with the excuse — I don't know whether or not — that they were very advanced in age and generated a huge expense. It's just the opposite of what they tell you, and that's the reality. And you speak here in your question of mutuality. There is no mutuality that replaces the Galego Center in Bos Aires, none, no mutuality. And I remind you that it was the partners, the partners of the Galego Center, who have decided freely and unilaterally not to accept people from the social work of Ospaña It is so, and you are somehow trying to create another speech where the truth is that it's hard not to understand, because, of course, they talk about where they are affiliated also the Greek officials who are part of a mutuality that does not exist, because, of course, there is no mutuality that replaces the Galego Center of Bos Aires, Mrs. Cuña, with which I really believe that the information they are going through is going through that way or is being interpreted that way. And, really, if you're concerned about the health of the Welsh people or children of Germans in Bos Aires, I'm going to tell you: welcome, we're also, welcome, but really don't fall into the trap or into strategies that are not protecting or favoring the resolution of the problem. And also, with regard to the health situation, it must be said that Argentina has a service...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u395	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u396	...universal health, better or worse, but it has a universal health service, and also the Galician Union, along with the state, favors and gives tools...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u397	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u398	...for health care to the Greek immigrants in Argentina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u399	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Mr Jaime Castineira Broz and six other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the investment planned by the Galician Union, within the framework of the Rexurbe program, for the acquisition and subsequent rehabilitation of buildings in the historic nuclei of Ferrol, Betanzos, Lugo and Ourense
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u400	To put the question, you have the word Mr. Castineira Broz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u401	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, the Government of Greece in recent years has been intensifying its commitment to the rehabilitation of homes in our community, by calling for different lines of assistance aimed at preserving the built heritage and improving the living conditions of the Greeks. This bet responds to a commitment expressed by the People's Party of Galicia in the electoral program with which it obtained the majority confidence of the citizenship of Galicia in September 2016. This program, which dedicated a specific heading to the recovery of historical helmets, made a specific mention of a singular action with the name Rexurbe, which defined this way: "The public will be able to carry out direct and intense interventions, acquiring and rehabilitating concrete buildings to achieve the recovery of highly degraded urban spaces where the private initiative does not perform any intervention, due to the high degree of deterioration or marginality of the field. In this way important urban spaces will be recovered, achieving economical dynamizing these areas, protecting the built heritage and fixing population in the historical helmets of Galicia." Following this commitment, in this legislation, in addition to the various lines of assistance directed to the owners and municipalities for the rehabilitation of housing and urban borders, Junta is also pushing for other direct rehabilitation actions, in different Greek cities, in real estates that belong to its property. He had also recently announced that he would continue to bet on these direct rehabilitation actions with the acquisition of new real estates in various historical centers of cities and towns in Greece. On January 12, he published a public offer to acquire real estate in the historic centers of the towns of Ferrol, Betanzos, Lugo and Ourense, which will be rehabilitated directly by the board in the framework of the Rexurbe program. We have asked him the following question: what does the Union plan to invest in the acquisition of real estate in the historic nuclei of Ferrol, Betanzos, Lugo and Ourense within the framework of the Rexurbe program and for its subsequent rehabilitation?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u402	Thank you very much, Mr. Castineira. Mrs. Vázquez Mejuto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u403	Thank you very much, Mr Castineira, for asking this question and therefore for giving me the opportunity to give information to all ladies and gentlemen. One of the priorities of the Galician Union is to bet on rehabilitation, to recover what we have already built, which is the heritage of all of us, which is a heritage that we inherit, and therefore we cannot allow these degraded areas to continue. A clear example of why in the 2019 budget we are allocating EUR 36 million for rehabilitation, both in direct actions and in indirect actions through aid and grants. One of the most innovative and outstanding programs is Rexurbe, which enables us to rehabilitate degraded areas from an architectural point of view but also from a social point of view and from an economic point of view, by pushing these centers back to have their own activity and to be an attraction to our historical helmets, especially within the towns and cities as well. We focus especially on the recovery of historical helmets, its delimitation, and therefore already in 2018 we agree to make a public offer of acquisition by buying real estate located in the historical helmets of Ferrol, Betanzos, Lugo and Ourense. The Council selected the real estate to be purchased taking into account specific criteria such as, for example, the special architectural value or that they were immovable whose recovery can contribute in a special way to the environmental regeneration of the area. After evaluating all the bids submitted, which were a total of 46, they acquired all the bids they met, and they were 26 real estates, which means an expected investment of 1.7 million euros for the purchase and 7 million that are necessary for the rehabilitation of these acquired properties. In total, the number of dwellings that are expected to result from these actions will be around 50, a figure that I'm going to detail. In the historic building of Betanzos, 6 buildings have been acquired and 12 houses are to be rehabilitated, which must be added to 15 that have been acquired before and for which we have already committed 3 million euros. In Ferrol we acquired 13 real estate. In December 2018, the rehabilitation of 2 real estates, on Rue Argüelles, will be granted 4 rehabilitated homes, so the Union will have a total of 50 homes in the old Ferrol case. In Lugo we acquired 3 properties located in the area of Tinería. We are currently rehabilitating a total of 9 dwellings, with an investment of 1.3 million euros. And finally...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u404	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u405	...fix the purchase of 4 buildings, which will add 5 more dwellings. And so we take up all the space and we're going to rehabilitate it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u406	Thank you very much, Counselor. To reply, Mr. Castineira Broz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u407	Thank you very much, Counselor. What is clear is that the success and operation of this programme is undeniable, and the future that is in line with the Rehabilitation Act, which is being dealt with in this Parliament, we hope that it will also be promising. And so if you could give us a brush of how these Rexurbe areas are left, these Rexurbe programs, in the future law that is being processed in Parliament, we would thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u408	Thank you very much, Mr. Castineira. For the Government's replica shift, you have the floor of Mrs. Environmental, Territorial and Living Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u409	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Castineira. From the German Government we have set a goal, and that goal is to choose rehabilitation. But it's true that we had to have a legislative framework that would give both the owners and the different administrations both security, making not only the more fluid dialogue but also being able to speed up all the procedures. That's why we designed Galicia's first Rehabilitation Act, which, as I told you, seeks to facilitate the recovery of historic centers and rural nuclei, as well as to protect historical buildings. A text which, as you all know, has already begun its parliamentary procedure and which will be discussed in this House — I hope — in the coming weeks. My desire, no doubt, is to invite all political groups to leave this law with the greatest possible consensus and to make the necessary contributions, because of all the sensibilities together at the end the result is always positive. We will achieve the objectives that we set out, and that goal is to instill the culture of rehabilitation, use and, above all, protect our heritage, that built heritage that we count on and that we must respect and at the same time we must promote. Any legal text which is debated and put to the vote in this Parliament is important, but I think this is very important, and therefore because of its relevance, I have a hand for all of us to work together. Because it has an extra relevance. On the one hand, because we promote coordination between administrations, and those we have had the opportunity to be in different administrations, we know perfectly well what we are talking about: it removes the barriers to edificibility for those who are involved in these actions, it encourages us to live in these areas, it guarantees planning for the future; that is, it is no longer about that the Administration buys buildings but we are going there, making a programming, a programming that goes in the wake of restoration, but also in the development of culture, in the environment, in the economic environment, and it is essential to have planning. And on the other hand, it lays the foundations for a public management determined to facilitate citizen participation. Among the main novelties of the text, it highlights the simplification of the processes, which is essential for rehabilitation. It also provides for the simplification of procedures in intervention in housing areas in areas where Santiago roads are affected and in rural and urban centres with some type of cultural protection. And the future law also contemplates the start of the Regurbe centres that we talked about earlier, linked to those areas that have a special self-interest. Including the creation of a Rexurbe fund to fund through interest-free loans...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u410	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u411	...and also a gun of abandoned real estate. It's the first time this sanctioning regime is established, and what we expect is the maximum collaboration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u412	Thank you very much, Counselor. Change in agenda development
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u413	We moved on to the next question by making a change in the agenda. Question by José Luis Rivas Cruz and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on aid to prevent damage caused by the wolf and the wild pig in livestock and agricultural crops
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u414	To put the question, Mr. Rivas Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u415	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The boar keeps an abundant population in the Galician geography. Its presence in our mountains is not only an exponent of our rich biodiversity, but also an element highlighted in the historical and biological balance of the environment in which it develops. "Equilibrium," that wonderful preamble there, this infamous defiance, opens one of the orders of the Environmental Council that tries to regulate the aid to prevent and remedy the damage caused by wildlife. Time won't let me give you a full argument, but I'll give you a few brushes. Since 2016 there have been no help to prevent and damage to the brave pig; there have been no complaints enough. Counselor, mark 012 and you'll know why. Even today, mark 012 and you'll know why there's no complaints. Of course, there are municipal elections this year, and you have to distribute money and cover holes, because otherwise you don't understand that there's much more money to compensate for damage than to prevent it. Then, 200,000 euros of prevention, 300,000 dollars of damage. But in barium there are 100,000 prevention and 811,000 damage. Still, they're insufficient and ridiculous in view of the magnitude of the wolf problem. It's not the wolf, it's the inaction and the ineptitude that harms the predators, up to the limit of risking the continuity of beasts, beasts and cattle, for example. The orders, Counsellor, are an insult to the intelligence of all those affected sectors and those of us who are concerned about the survival of the countryside, to show a divorced councillor of reality. Unrelenting the lobe-balance by showing-cleaning of saw-knocks; danger to all of them. Attacks on the large cattle, both cow and goat and sheep. Forage crops, mainly corn and grassland. Agricultural crops for household consumption. Professional garden crops, which are non-existent for councils that have something to do with rural areas. Health of livestock and people — here we are playing bottom. The spread of swine fever and tuberculosis, which is there, in Europe, is knocking on our doors, in the variants of containment and dissemination. Traffic safety. Counsellor, all permissions and licenses for closures made at the time of request for help. You and I both know that a municipal license includes a lot of licenses and permits that are time-consuming when requesting help. Why not at the end? Determination of breeds of pedigree dogs — here they've already received a lot of beatings and had to go back. 100,000 euros for fixed closures. By the way, in memory it advises to bury the stakes from 2 meters to 30 centimeters. Counselor, you and I know what the earth is and what it's like to bury a stake, right? To be included in the Reaga. Look, the marine professional garden has 240 farms more or less; only 7 (5 outdoors and 2 under roof) are registered. In Artixo, the Artixo garden has at least 320 farms (30 outdoors, 7 indoors).
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u416	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u417	They have to present the reference of SIXPAC, farms that do not enter the CAP, electric shepherds, complaints before seventy-two hours. What are you going to be like: riding a guard every day in front of the forty, fifty or sixty farms?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u418	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u419	I'll follow you later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u420	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas. Mrs. Vázquez Mejuto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u421	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Rivas. I'm glad to hear you're worried about our wild fauna, about biodiversity, but I'm also pleased to know that you're concerned about livestock, farmers, and accidents. It's good, it's good because at the end of here what we have to do is not just focus on a specific order, but go further, and therefore, I'm glad you heard it. And I wish it was always this way, whether or not there are municipal elections, whether there are autonomous elections, whether there are national elections or not. So, I'll tell you that one of the main axes of work and concerns of our council is, of course, to deal with the damage that wildlife causes in both crops and livestock farms as well as in peri-urban areas, because now it's not just the glove that complains, no, it's that we also have them in cities, and we have a boar overcrowding. In fact, we've implemented a wide range of preventive measures, but also compensatory measures, and, as you know, we've even made changes to the law, because there's a time when we have to have control, we have to do containment. You named it perfectly: there we have the swine fever, but just as we can have the swine fever, which can end all the boars we have in our community, it can end the rest of the domestic cattle, the swine; but it's also true that they are transmitters of other kinds of diseases, and therefore control is fundamental. But it is also crucial to help, the help we have to give to those farmers and to those farmers, which, in fact, have losses, and because they have losses, on the one hand, we do prevention and, on the other hand, we try to help them make those losses smaller. Therefore, this year 2019 we have called three lines of aid, equipped with 1.4 million euros, and designed specifically to prevent and counter these attacks. And believe me, Mr. Rivas, which has not been done because yes, it has not been done with two technicians — who are very good technicians at the Environmental Council. He was counting on the sector and on a table where agricultural organizations are, and there he came to Agricultural Unions and also went to the Galician Labour Union, and he listened to everyone, and it's therefore good that they give him that information. But yesterday the director general was meeting with an agricultural organization, because he wanted to promote a project in a given area. With which he listens, he talks and, when he goes down the street, of course, he sees himself apart. These measures are as follows — and you said — the compensation for damage to barbarians, with EUR 811,000. Why? Because it's necessary.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u422	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u423	And on the other hand, for the damage caused by the wolf, we have spent 350,000 euros, and in prevention we have up to 300,000 euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u424	Thank you very much, Counselor. To reply, Mr. Rivas Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u425	Counselor, the concern for wildlings and domestics is not new. And you recognize overcrowding. So, what's the balance of what you're talking about in the preambular order, which, apart from being very nice, is unrealistic and authentically shocking — to tell you something —? Porcine plague can end, it can end all the boar, but it can end all our exploitation of pig, extensive, intensive and whatever you want. And that's a danger that's there, and you have to start dictate protocols, you have to start walking, and you don't walk. At that table he talks about, or at some of those tables and meetings, he came to talk about paying 50 euros per piece charged, which Wanted from the West; yes, at least that's what happens to me. But what hurts us, Counselor, is their ignorance of reality. Because you look, electric shepherds for professional agriculture. Do you know what it's like to be surrounded by electric threads, electric shepherds, sixty-seven estates that professional farmers have right now? Do you know what these farmers have to do to be able to report the attacks in the seventy-two hours after it happened? Do you have to mount guards on the routes of their farms? Counsellor, why do you exclude the arabs, the amorous, the oysters, the garlic, the spinach, the pyrexel, the vercas, the tirabecs, the beans, and if you include the pretty ones? Can you tell me how many cute people are caught in Galicia right now? We just don't really get it, do we? [[Applause]] It's a whole lesson of comprehensive knowledge of reality. You've been advisor to the middle of the countryside, haven't you? I mean, we think the affected sectors have more than enough reasons to be angry. Because you see, what I was saying to him about beasts, beasts, and cattle show me. There's a horse left in the Xistral and the other saws, the Cadramon and the rest.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u426	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u427	...at the end of next year, because they're tired, because you're not able to arbitrate a way to know how many chickens eat the wolf every year, that you have to pay them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u428	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u429	And they're well paid, because the wolf and the poultry and but the show cattle have to live together to make cutters. Counsellor, take action, move, because the problem is great and the environment is essential.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u430	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas. To reply to the Government, you have the floor of Mrs. Environmental, Territorial and Living Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u431	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm not surprised, Mr. Rivas: the messages you give on one side change them directly to the other. Well, actually, I've been a rural councillor, I live in the countryside, I'm still a gang member's daughter, now I'm in the environment, everything is compatible, but believe me that your concern here today is our concern and we're bringing it in. When he speaks of dispropositions and inaccuracies, we saw him move to the Ministry of Ecological Transition that we have to arbitrate systems, not only every community for free, because the problem of the boar is not just a problem of Galicia, but the problem of swine fever will come not only to Galicia, but to Spain as a whole. And then, well, there's the dichotomy between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Ecological Transition, but believe me that here, as a Government, there's none, but we're going by hand. So, there are no misconceptions here, there are no inaccuracies, you heard the sector, and you just recognized it. More importantly, the euro that was going to be paid for money was actually changed because it had to be brought closer to reality, Mr Rivas. But there's work, and that's why we spend time with him. So don't say we're back in the sector, but we're sitting in the sector. You say we accept and incorporate. That's more, I'm telling you, we've accepted and incorporated the proposal to include the acquisition of fences, which was something they've been demanding for a long time, and now we've said OK. We included it, because the sector was asking for it, and it was at those work meetings. As for the barremations, which you named them in writing, this year points to the existence of previous damage on holdings in previous years. Why? Because we know we have to help them, because it can't be just the farmer and the farmer, the livelihood of wild fauna, but there has to be something else. We introduced news about the dogs, and you said begigri. What did they ask of us? Butterdogs. Well, straw dogs, breed dogs, and there it is. And who asked for it? He asked for the sector. So there was dialogue, there was consensus, it was heard, but it wasn't something the advisor or the technicians had said, but it was done by the sector, which is the acquaintance. As for the recipient's requirements, because to tell you: it's about legislation, and for a fence we don't ask for a license, but they do have to have prior communication in the county, and you'll understand that we can't skip to the tower some things yes and no, because if we don't, they would quickly tell us from the other side that we're doing it wrong. But, in addition, it's a problem of municipalities. We're not the ones who license the fences, it's a prior communication that needs to be managed. So the features are the technical documents...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u432	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u433	...which they also valued with all of them. I believe that there is a programme, a programme that is developing the Autonomous Community, and indeed we call for the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Ecological Transition to be involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u434	Thank you very much, Counselor. Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u435	Let's move on to the next question. 7.3 you know you've been welcomed on request by the Government. And the next one is 7.4. Question by Mr Miguel Állado Filgueira and eight other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on the assessment of the Government of Greece on the institutional journey to Miami and New York announced by the President of the Galician Union to strengthen economic and trade relations with the United States of America
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u436	To put the question, Mr. Tellado Filgueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u437	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is, we were used to the House's net living with an opposition that says one thing and does another. But this is an innovative opposition, counselor. And now, innovating, the opposition is saying two things at the same time, even from the same parliamentary group. It's an innovation of opposition in this considerable legislation. I believe that, if we refer to the trip that last week was carried out by the President of the Galician Union to the United States, we saw perfectly portrayed the opposition in this conduct: first, they criticized the trip and then criticized the President for shortening the trip. Either you criticize the trip or you criticize the short trip, but you were able to criticize both things, even when the president didn't shorten the trip, but he changed the schedule of one of the acts provided for in that schedule. With which opposition we tend to laugh the usual rice in these plenarys. First, they say that the trip is useless, then they say that the travel meetings are very important and that the president changed the schedule and that's wrong. And, therefore, I would like to make it very clear that since the Popular Parliamentary Group we believe that what the president did last week, first, on the journey and then attending that concentration in the Colon Square, was exactly the same, which is defending Galicia and defending Spain. Because defending Spain is the same as defending Galicia and defending Galicia is defending Spain, on the institutional journey and also in that concentration. [[Applause]] Galicia does not defend itself when budgets are backed up which are detrimental to Galicia and benefit Catalonia. He doesn't defend Galicia when he doesn't face people and he doesn't defend the productive sectors. You don't look for Galicia when you don't bet on supporting companies, which is exactly what the president of the Union did on this trip, a journey that wanted to defend the Galicia brand, move the Galicia brand to the United States and move what the Galicia brand is, because it's also part of that Spanish brand. The Galician brand I think you know everyone here, but you need to talk about it across the ocean, to defend what the Galician brand is as quality, as work, as sentiño, as institutional stability. And so, Counsellor, we wanted to ask you about the assessment made by the Government of Galicia on this trip that the president of the Union and his team performed in Miami and the United States, New York, to defend and consider Galicia's tourist offer and also the offer that has to do with the productive sectors of our community. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u438	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u439	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Tellado, I would like to thank the Government for explaining in this House the journey of the President of the Union to both Miami and New York. And I thank him because that means being able to speak in this House of Economic Policy, Industrial Policy and above all the competitiveness that our productive fabric is showing in the field of exports. The President visited for the first time on an institutional trip to the United States, with an eminently economic and cultural agenda, with a clear objective of opening up new markets and, above all, accompanying the productive fabric in his effort to compete in the world's first economic power. What took us there? First of all, it has led us to the fact that more than a thousand Greek companies are exporting to the United States, a thousand companies that are currently increasing their exports, about 2%, reaching up to November 2018 521 million euros of export. And, above all, to establish stronger trade relations with the United States, which in some ways are also explaining why for the fourth consecutive year Galicia in 2018 will once again hit the export record, exceeding 22,000 euros of exports in this case. This institutional journey has also led us to see that Miami is considered the world capital of the cruise, and therefore to open opportunities in cruise tourism and also in the naval sector, because the demand for cruises from a constructive point of view is going to increase by 50% in the coming years. And also a journey that had a deep schedule linked to emigration and culture. These are reasons why we understand that enough for the purpose of this journey to be centered on productive sectors of our economy, such as tourism, the naval sector and the contract sector, and also a journey that has established a joint agenda with the County of Miami to promote the Holy Year, the Xacobeo 2021, in a country that is currently the third country that receives tourists, behind Portugal and Germany. And, of course, also to highlight the whole of Welsh emigration in the United States, a very important aspect. And in this sense, I would particularly like to highlight the work done by the Galician Council of Culture and its exhibition "The Fades", which was a tribute to millions of Greeks and Greeks emigrated and, above all, a recognition of the generosity of the American nation with Galicia. Finally, economic reasons, commercial reasons and cultural reasons that give you content to an international agenda and especially to the accompaniment from the point of view of the Galician Union to the effort that the productive fabric is taking to increase...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u440	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u441	...their exports to third countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u442	Thank you very much. To reply, Mr. Tellado Filgueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u443	Thank you, President. Tell us, Counselor, of visible results on those trips. And so I have to say that the criticisms of the opposition can only inevitably respond to the bad conscience they have when they talk about travel. It is clear that the Socialist Party cannot be told about official travel, because, well, we soon see how the official Falcon is used to go to a concert of The Killers. Now we're waiting for Pedro Sánchez to make an official trip to Spain to see if elections are called, to see when he plays. Bad conscience also of the mayors of the Tide, who make official journeys to meet with other mayors by their respective mayors. And they also have a bad conscience from the Galician Nationalist Block when they talk about travel, because they remember what they did when they were in front of the German Government. [[Murmurs.]] You tell us about a journey in which the tourism sector has been defended, if you have defended exports, if you have defended the capacity of institutional cooperation of the Government of Galicia; a journey that places in value the good reputation of this government inside and outside Galicia. And so we have to regret the attitude of opposition groups, because we think they're portrayed every day; we just have to see it when there's no arguments. [[Murmurs.]] And, therefore, I, counsellor, want to ask you about the specific schedule of the trip, about the complete schedules of the trip, if you have fully fulfilled the objective of this trip, or if, on the other hand, if you have changed the programming and you have cancelled planned meetings, as they denounce, irresponsiblely and liarly, the different groups of the opposition. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u444	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. For the Government's replica shift, the Councillor for Economics, Employment and Industry has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u445	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Tellado, indeed, the travel schedule has been fully completed with all the meetings originally planned. And it was an extensive and diverse agenda: it has mixed institutional aspects, commercial aspects, cultural aspects and aspects related to emigration as well. Specifically, the President of the Galician Union had the opportunity to hold a meeting with the mayor of Miami-Dade County, Carlos Giménez, in which the aspects of Miami's position in the traffic of cruises and airport traffic were addressed, and, in some ways, to establish links in order to channel towards the Year Xacobeo 2021 an additional effort to receive tourists from the United States. Both in Miami and in New York also kept the president without any business encounters promoted by the Chamber of Commerce. And in concrete terms, the naval sector had a special role in the President's agenda. The president held a meeting with Ritz-Carlton officials to continue the presence of this shipowner in Galicia, who, as you know, is building a cruise in the yard of Barreiras for an amount of 250 million euros. At that meeting, new opportunities were opened and the possibilities were identified for the purpose of exploring new links and, therefore, for establishing new long-term relationships that could help Galicia to position itself in the construction of cruises. One sector, as I said before, which has accumulated growths over 50% over the last ten years, and the forecast until 2027 is that more than one hundred and ten new ships are operating around the world. It's therefore another chance for the naval sector. The president also visited the port of Miami to put to value Galicia as a reference scale on the Atlantic coast, at the entry door of America to Europe, and to continue to promote, ultimately, the tourism sector of Galicia. It also met with companies in the contract sector; in particular, it held a meeting with Marriott officials, who are currently carrying out 100 projects in the construction process in Latin America and 136 renovations in the horizon of 2020. And, therefore, opening up opportunities also so that the contract sector can have new contracts. And then, after single encounters with the Galician community — as it does on all trips — the president of the board also had the opportunity to inaugurate in the New York Immigration Museum the exhibition of the Galician Culture Council "Os goodbyees", which is a tribute to Galician history. Finally, the president signed an agreement with the University of New York, one of the most prestigious universities in the world, to be able to hold in this city in 2020 a unique international symposium on the Way of Santiago, which will be an opportunity to position the Way internationally.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u446	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u447	Ultimately, new partnerships based on the stability of our Government, talent and capacity in the shipbuilding sector, the contract sector and the tourism sector. The recognition of the Santiago Way and the links with emigration was also the main objective of this journey. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u448	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. Let's move on to the next question. Da Luca Chao Pérez and Da Maria de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda, from G.P. of In Marea, on the reasons for billing families for repairs of computer equipment provided to students who are part of the E-Dixgal digital education initiative in the method of transfer of use
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u449	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Chao Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u450	Thank you, President. In case Mr. Tellado didn't find out, tell him that what we criticize is that fascism says "good" and the president leaves it all. But let's go with digital teaching. As you know, eight years ago the Galician Union has been developing initiatives aimed at promoting the digitization of classes. We speak at the first moment of the Abalar project, complemented by the E-Dixgal initiative, which allows eighteen thousand students of 5th and 6th primary and 1st and 2nd ESO students to be part of this initiative in 2018-2019. It is interesting to stop at this because, on the one hand, it affects only 267 centres, and on the other hand, very few school courses, which means that, after living the experience of digitization, students and students return to the books on paper, which, of course, would be much more interesting to keep in time. The implementation of digital education, of course, leads to an important investment in equipment. Thus, in 2017 we need to highlight a framework agreement with a single entrepreneur of 11 million euros and a 2018 announcement of another contract of 15 million euros; framework agreement, by the way, announced in August 2018 and which is still pending to adjucate today, six months later. Counsellor, it's already a rather clear, strange delay and, of course, an inefficient administration. But let's go to the center of today's business: what do these millionaire contracts include? Well, above all, two kinds of equipment. On the one hand, the equipment used by children and children, which are, as you know, ultra-portable; and on the other hand, laptops for teachers and classes, not curiously for the professor of Therapeutic Pedagogy and Hearing and Language, who is excluded from this project. Here's the government's great commitment to inclusive education, too. So, of course, the well-known classes that are inserted into the E-Dixgal project need wifi connection so that students and teachers can follow the digital content and educational activity in the classroom. And that's in class because, on the other hand, computers that count the student have the possibility to connect offlinely to the contents. And this is very important, they lead us to a fundamental matter, because all children must be able to follow the contents in the home without necessarily having access to the Internet. There are, of course, 22% of Galician homes. And here we come to an important part of the problem: what happens when these equipment, which is fundamental to the course follow-up, is destroyed? Well, the scares come, the scars are very important to the families, Counselor. Suctions of nothing more and nothing less than 437 euros billed to families. I have here precisely an invoice of 437,96 euros for repairing a screen that is sent to a family, a real scandal. [[Mrs. Chao Pérez shows a document.]] Do you think, Counsellor, that with these bills you can guarantee equal opportunities in public education in Greek? Is this what the German Government understands for a free public education? How does the Government of the Galician Union explain that the families are being billed?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u451	Thank you very much, Mrs Chao. Mrs. Pomar Tojo has the floor of the Councillor for Education, University and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u452	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Mrs. Chao, I want to begin my answer by thanking the written exposition of this initiative, because in the same way they recognize the work done in recent years by the Galician board to achieve digitization in the classes of the Greek educational centres. It also recognizes — and I read textually — that "the implementation of digital education is of course an important investment in equipment for having digital classes, equipment for students and personal use teachers, a virtual learning environment and variety of digital content, training programs and tools for intercom and collaboration." The Agency for Modernization Technology of Galicia and the Education Council, through the E-Dixgal Strategy, develop the E-Dixgal project. [[Amtega]] In particular, in 2018-2019 the digital book through computer equipment is available to eighteen thousand students from 5th and 6th primary and 1st and 2nd ESO students from 267 educational centres. So I take this answer to reassure them and to clarify that neither Amtega nor the Council nor the Premium Support of care, support and accompaniment, are issuing any bill to families for the regular repair or acquisition of student equipment. Mrs. Chao, allow me to tell you that your question arises from an incorrect interpretation of what is happening. You actually give the existence of billing, when what exists is a communication channel to confirm that the incidence is not covered by the warranty and that repair or replacement of the equipment must be carried out through a channel authorized by the manufacturer, while you are given the option to request a repair or supply budget of a new equipment. I insist: the Premium Support for Care, Support and Accompaniment makes a communication to inform you of the obligation to repair or replace the equipment in those cases where the incidence is not included in the alleged warranty that the adjudicator assumes. It also offers the option, without commitment, of being able to manage the repair or acquisition of the equipment affected by an incidence which — I repeat — does not cover the guarantee without commitment. The development of E-Dixgal establishes that the Galician administration assumes the provision of an individual team of students for educational use including support and maintenance of the team. In addition, it has been established that the equipment is owned by the Board, but that families must take responsibility for the correct care and use of the computer, and thus appears in the student transfer agreement. In fact, they sign the liability assumption form and the correct care and use of the computer, responding to the loss of the computer or its misuse. So the freeness for families refers to the equipment's equipment and its normal maintenance, but not to screen breaks, not to stick breaks, not to load connector breaks, or to pointer breaks...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u453	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u454	...of the pointer, loss of the pointer, of the charger or of the equipment itself. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u455	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the replica shift, you have the floor to Mrs. Chao Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u456	Too bad you recognized him in the end. I mean, are the bills being sent? Yes. Do you have families to pay? Yes. That was the bottom line. And you know the bottom line question you tried to dodge: what about families who can't afford those bills? That's what we're worried about. What about them? Do you think bills of this caliber are absumable in every house in Galicia? You know, of course, that you don't. You are thus being responsible for increasing the inequality of Galician children and children, because no, unfortunately, not all the Greek families can pay these bills, and what is not understandable is that children and children depend on family income to have the material they need, material with which important companies are doing succulent business — we do not forget —. And it's going to allow me one more step in this disincentive because of which the Galician Union is planning to invest in digital equipment while it carries the costs to families and guarantees millions of income to various companies; one more cost, one more example of permanent compensation in a teaching that we will not tire of being told must be truly free. Back to bill: 437,96 euros for screen replacement. You know, Counselor, how much does every team cost? It is clear in the contract: EUR 385.64. How can you explain that the repair bill is 50 euros more expensive than the purchase of your own equipment? I'd like you to tell us what appreciation deserves; for us, a coat of hair. And second question: how can you explain to Junta that here if you had signed another contract of nothing more and nothing less than €2.262,000 for -- textually -- "pay attention and technical support to digital education users," when, instead of assuming the cost, as they did up to a year ago, which paid the Board of Galicia directly, are the families that have to pay? How do you explain this? How do you explain the compensation? What kind of hair jacket is this?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u457	Thank you very much, Mrs Chao. For the Government's replication shift, she has the floor of the Councillor for Education, University and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u458	Thank you very much. Well, I think it's hard to maintain such a harsh criticism when what's going on is what you yourself in your written exposition and your colleagues and colleagues have described: "The use of laptop computers and digital tools and content installed in it is free of charge for the student. Families are committed to the proper use of the equipment, to the care of public equipment, which can be used in other courses by other students, and to the use linked to the educational activity for which it is transferred." I'm going to tell you, Mrs Chao: the present course has been communicated to Premium support by families and centres a total of 69 incidents not covered by the alleged guarantees. Do you know what percentage is? 0.38%. Specifically, 20 per loss of equipment and 49 per ruptures of any component of the equipment, mainly screens, hinges, load connectors and pointers. You will understand that as head of the Education Council, you appeal to the importance of responsible use of school material — computers, but also textbooks — and also to the importance of transmitting to the student who must care for the equipment and become responsible. They and they have very learned it and very assumed and internalized it, as I check every time I visit some E-Dixgal class. It's important that the student learn the value of being responsible, that he learns that he has to make proper use of the computer and also of the rest of the school material and the textbooks, which he receives for free, both the computer and the textbooks, for an educational activity, which, if he doesn't, he has to take on a repair. Mrs. Chao, it's not right to confuse freeness with a sort of free bar. That's not a good message for girls and boys, who will be citizens of the future of Galicia. And I should also think about always assigning a negative connotation to the term "externalization"; don't forget that the Tide governments have also outsourced some services. By invitation to tender, Junta acquired the computer equipment provided in E-Dixgal and the families of the participating student assume in the assignment of use the responsibility of custody of the equipment, care and return. In particular, the text commands them to sign: "I am responsible for the correct care and use of the computer, responding to the loss of this or its misuse." In those cases, therefore, where the incidence cannot be found to be a defect of the equipment, it is not included in the alleged guarantees that the adjudicator assumes. Within the duties of the adjudicator of the student's equipment supply contest, he is providing a channel where families and centres can request a repair budget, but not a commitment. It's not a billing. The Premium support provides that information and the user can repair or buy the equipment on the channel he wants, keeping the warranty conditions set by the computer manufacturer. I end up appealing not to confuse things and work all together to improve the teaching and opportunities of the student in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u459	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Mr José Manuel Pérez Seco and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the actions planned by the Government of Greece to solve the situation in which the pediatric service is found in the municipalities of Moeche, Sardinian, the Somozas and San Sadurniño
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u460	To put the question, Mr. Pérez Seco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u461	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Greeting also the mayors of Sardinia and Cariño, who accompany us today in the rostrum. As you well know, last Sunday thousands of people manifested themselves in the streets of Santiago against the sacks of public health of Mr. Feijóo. And I say sacks because that's the only thing that's leaving us this country's legislation: sacks and more sacks to public health. [[Applause]] In this demonstration there was no PP leader, because they were in another demonstration in Madrid, but don't worry, that I told you a little about what happened here in Santiago. Among the thousands of people were the mothers and fathers, children and children of the four municipalities object of this initiative: Sardinian, San Sadurniño, Moeche and the Somozas, who, as you well know, since January have no pediatrician, or what they have is three days a pediatrician and two other optional days coming from the Fontennla Maristany outpatient clinic, by Ferrol, which in no case have the pediatrician specialty. The only thing the Government wants is to keep the service with non-specialized professionals, so no optimal conditions are given. A month ago there was a traveling pediatric service, which is known as a "for here there": in Sadurniño on Mondays and Fridays, in Sardinia on Tuesdays, in Somozas on Wednesdays and in Moeche on Thursdays. There is currently no such service of consultation and all are held in the municipality of San Sadurniño. I used to be the pediatrician who used to travel and now it's the parents and mothers who walk "from here to there." And this causes great discrimination for the children and children of the counties of Sardinian, Moeche and the Somozas, who, as you know, are rural municipalities. If there is discrimination, because there are not the same levels of coverage in rural areas as in cities; also for their parents and their mothers, who have difficulties with conciliation and are forced to make displacements; but it's not a good situation for the optionals, who are overwhelmed by their waiting rooms. But it also rains on wet, because it's not the first time these sacks occur in the Ortegal district; so, in the town halls of Cariño, Ortigueira and Tomorrow children and girls know that they can't get sick when the pediatrician is off or on vacation, because the lack of the specialist is not covered. You're dismantling the service and you need a substantial improvement in health care, starting with the recovery of staff working conditions, with more job stability, and paying attention to the smaller ones. So, since you were in Madrid and Galician public television, it seems that they didn't tell you completely either, we asked you, what are you going to do to stop the dismantling of the pediatrics service and avoid the serious discrimination and situation in which the service is found in the municipalities of Moeche, Sardinian, Somozas and San Sadurniño? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u462	Thank you very much, Mr. Pérez Seco. The health counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u463	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is that I'm surprised because I thought I was going to speak again to Mr. Torrado, who spoke of pediatrics with Mr. Torrado; then, I have to repeat some of the utterances I said there. [[Murmurs.]] Look, as far as the primary care service is concerned in San Sadurniño, this district, as we say, the municipalities of San Sadurniño, The Somozas, Sardinia and Moeche, in these municipalities, in the total number of child health cards we are talking about 332 children: 124 in Sadurniño, 80 in Somozas, 52 in Sardinia and 76 in Moeche. As the spokesman of the Socialist Party well recognized, there was until very little a pediatrician with a stable square — and that we will continue to keep, of course — lowering the average performance, as we said, with regard to Galicia, which is one of the best ratios between children and pediatricians, 941, and here we are talking about 332 children. We're gonna keep doing this. But on January 14, 2019, the optional who came to provide his services in primary care in San Sadurniño is incorporate to his new destination after reaching the square in the corresponding opposition. To respond to this situation, Ferrol's EOXI tried to incorporate another optional. Moreover, I also know — I take advantage of to greet the mayors of the area — that they have been informed of all that was being done by the Iron Health Area Administration. The pediatric square of the San Sadurniño primary care service is structural, exists and will continue to exist and for nothing is in question. And, of course, as soon as we have possibilities, we will incorporate an optional as we have so far. In view of the absence of potential pediatric specialists in the recruitment lists — he said in the previous interpellation: zero unemployment — neither childcare doctors, following the criteria set out in the contract of recruitment, and to ensure assistance to children of the service, the collaboration of different professionals of the Administration was requested. Contacted professionals work late in their respective primary care services, taking into account the children of their reference population; they are also making a huge effort to be able to handle this way and avoid further displacement to the families of the region. This schedule allows these professionals to carry out an extension of their daily life in the primary care service in San Sadurniño tomorrow. With this I mean that, of course, it's not a health cut, as the spokesman said, because it's a matter of course we pay these professionals, which, of course, we have to be very grateful because they make an extraordinary effort, out of their diary. This coverage from Monday to Friday has been lending since the moment that optional incorporation took place to its new destination. This planning will continue until a new optional can be incorporated into the existing square, so it can't be said to delete the pediatrician service, since at the moment we can count on a new professional...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u464	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u465	...then we will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u466	Thank you very much, Counselor. To reply, Mr. Pérez Seco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u467	Counselor, the mayors say they haven't been warned, and if later, when your question comes to an end, the next one, that you're also going to answer it, you've got five minutes to talk to them, you're probably going to thank him. He says they're going to keep the square, but so far he's not, and what we're asking for on this initiative is that the same coverage in rural areas as in cities, because the dispersal of rural areas is not the same as cities. We know that in cities, on a street in a city, there may be the same children as in these four municipalities and they have a specialist at five, ten minutes from their home. It's not like this in rural areas, they have to travel, depending on a car, a taxi, the transport of Galicia, which is like it's in rural areas. That's why we ask him and tell him when it's gonna be that these three municipalities are going to have the pediatrician again. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u468	Thank you very much, Mr. Pérez Seco. You have the word for the Government's reply, Mr. Health Counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuína.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u469	As I said in the previous interpellation, and I remember again, we in Galicia believe in the current model of pediatric care specialized in primary care, in health centers, and in the municipalities, as I say, with few children. There's certainly no area in Spain with a ratio of 332 children per pediatrician. We believe in that model. And, as I told you in the first intervention, we're going to try, when we can, to incorporate a pediatrician who's going to be covering that square. The mayors, as Xerencia told me, were informed directly by him about the situation, and of course what we're going to do, and what we're doing, is to continue to pay attention to the children of the county. Recalling, as I say, the previous plea — which is why I was surprised that it was not Mr Torrado; it seems that, according to the health area, specialization in health varies, curiously — we are taking measures: we are expanding retirement age; that is why we have twenty more pediatricians in Galicia. A new contract, with which we will try to capture pediatricians from other autonomous communities, and, as I said before, from northern Portugal, because it is a contract that will go out for 4,800 euros with a continuity of up to three years, and then the creation of these squares will be valued. So we keep working. We will continue, as I say, paying pediatric attention to this and other parts of Galicia, because we understand that rural people have to have services, and of course Galicia's board is involved and will do so. And, as I say, we just need a push from the Ministry, from the Socialist Party, to let us believe six more pediatrical squares, and at that time we could form, instead of twenty, every year, twenty-six pediatricians, which I think would look very good to us all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u470	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question from Noa Presas Bergantiños and five other Members from the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the forecasts of the Galician Union regarding the expansion of the operation of the hemodynamics service in the University Hospital Complex of Ourense at 24 hours a day
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u471	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u472	Mr. Almuña, at the plenary today, we have already taken two bad news: the first, that your parliamentary group seems to be committed to beating some kind of record number of times that you vote against the right of the ores to have hemodynamics 24 hours, and the second, that you have already told us this afternoon that you have not thought of resigning, despite the fact that you are falling in this country. [[Applause]] Of course, if you're not going to resign, I'd recommend you not to go next door to Ourense, because of course to me, if I were you, I'd be rather ashamed. The truth — I said today this morning and I insist now — is that the history of hemodynamics — does not like the lords of the People's Party to hear it, but that they are then consistent with their votes — in Ourense is the story of the hypocrisy and the true disgrace of the People's Party with the orensans. We've been served by institutions governed by the People's Party by little or nothing, either in the House of Ourense or in the Town Hall, so they can listen to us. The truth is, it's pretty hard for them to listen to the demands of the oransans when they're talking on the phone while they ask them. This is the level of respect that is on this issue, and the truth and that is a shame, Counselor, because we are talking about human lives. [[Applause]] We're talking about Ourense having the highest average age in Galicia, above and above the state average; we're talking about him having the highest rate of mortality from myocardial infarction, including Galicia, and issues such as that in 2017 142 people died in Ourense because of this, because of acute myocardial infarction. Surely some of these lives could have been saved if there was a 24-hour unit of hemodynamics working in Ourense, because they work 24 hours in other parts of the country for something, because it's efficient and because it's the best thing to do. Today there is no single technical or scientific argument that makes it better not to have this service than to have it, but you're still lying and pretending to this Parliament, as if this mattered to you, when the only thing that matters to you is the economic profitability of the Counsellor, as if it were a private company and not a right to all of them anyway. We understand, of course, that this is a question of social justice and basic rights, that anyone in this country deserves the same services, living in Ourense, living in Santiago or living in the Coruña, living in an urban environment or living in rural areas. And, therefore, we understand that this question, in which, at last, after years of popular mobilization, has just been ceded in Lugo, must also be applied to Ourense. So today he demands a very clear question: we want a date, Mr. Almouniña. I ask him: will he leave Galician Union to pretend that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u473	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u474	...in Ourense we choose the schedule for a heart attack? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u475	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u476	Will you give me a date? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u477	Thank you very much. The health counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u478	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. Obviously, demagoxy has no end, you can talk whatever you want. But look, in Galicia for years we've had a system called Progaliam project, which is one of the best at the national level. And Galicia has had urgent care for many years since then, at any time, any myocardial infarction, any process of breast angina, 365 days, 24 hours, no matter where she lives. I would like to recall that from the last report of the Regaliam Monitoring and Monitoring Committee, which was brought together in July, it can be concluded that as of 31 December 2017 a total of 2,724 cases were registered, representing a total of 40,23 cases per 100,000 inhabitants. Global mortality for all these causes in this period, after thirty days of follow-up, was 3.5%, lower than standard 5, which is what mark Spanish scientific societies, which, by the way, have a very important level at the international level. Also, of course, this mortality is below the standards in Ourense, and I think I should review that data you presented. The Regaliam Follow-up Commission estimated that, while we still achieved these excellent results, aimed at indicators marked by the Spanish Society of Cardiology, we had margin of improvement. Among other measures, they said that we should carry out a population information campaign to improve knowledge and quickly identify the symptoms of acute myocardial infarction, because, of course, while the population does not know exactly the symptoms at the first moment, in addition, it should not only know these symptoms, but also know that the fastest way to get attention is to call 061 and activate the code of acute myocardial infarction. We also reviewed the isochrons of Foundation 061 for the transfer of patients to the centres with the ability to perform the nearest primary anxioplasty. We've studied, along with 061, the resources available in advanced life support. We have analysed in detail all the factors that determine the times of care within the hospital with the objective of improving them. We extended the hours of Lugo and Ourense rooms, with continuous monitoring of their results, to achieve the reduction of this time between the diagnosis of opening and, say, the infarction. The Hemodynamics Unit at Lucus Augusti Hospital, Lugo, on February 23, 2018 expanded its operating hours from 8 in the morning to 10 in the evening and we have results already and that is why we made a decision that we understand was the most necessary. In Ourense we are going to follow this same procedure, exactly the same way, with the same period of time to make decisions. When is that period? September 2019. Right now, in the first trimester of action, in Ourense there are 13 cases, which not much less gives us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u479	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u480	...a possibility of changing attitude in the face of scarcity. In a year, September 2019, we'll be there...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u481	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u482	...with technical reports that evaluate everything we're talking about.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u483	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the replica shift, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u484	For demagogy, you, Mr. Almuinho. It must have been quite interesting about that call and it didn't really pay attention to what I asked him. [[Applause]] Demagoxia has, for example, Mr. Jesús Vázquez, mayor of Ourense, who is upset not because his neighborhood has no such service but because the opposition we care about this matter and we do our work. Demagoxia had her background in this Greek Parliament as the spokespersons of health; among them it is a pity that our President of Parliament had already left, who seemed little to begin this service, but who now do not use his political power to give us wings and the werens equal rights. Demagoxia is also the constant policy seen by ourrensania, by the House of Ourense, who are also specialists in sharing defibrillators throughout the country, as if that's why you're already cardioprotected, when later, if you have an attack on your heart, you don't have the same service as if you've lived somewhere else. That's demagogy, Mr. Almuinho, that's demagogy and good. The next thing you're going to tell us is that those information campaigns that you've just assumed will automatically be catechism by divine inspiration if you have a heart attack. This isn't serious, Mr. Padre. I should have taken this subject with a little more seriousness and not come here to repeat an obsolete argumentary that we've been listening for ten years since they arrived in the Greek Government, and even more so when later they rectified the path of the facts, because it was not necessary to extend the schedule until they had to expand it, there was no need for hemodynamics at 24 hours in Lugo, even they completely perverted a popular legislative initiative that took over 40,000 people until they had to correct it. And the question is: why is Lugo yes — that I am happy and defending — and Ourense no? We simply ask him to make our neighborhood the same as the rest of the Greeks and the Greeks. And I don't quite understand why I'm here to justify that 13 cases are not representative. The attitude of an advanced society and a Greek government that wants to take us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u485	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u486	...to an advanced society with well-equipped public services is that every life is worth as a thousand, and that therefore... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u487	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u488	...if he's in his hand, he must extend this service at 24 hours.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u489	Thank you very much. For the Government's replica shift, you have the word of the Health Counsellor, Mr Vázquez Almuína.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u490	Tell him the Almuña comes from Ourense and therefore I will continue going to Ourense as often as I need to. [[Applause]] Look, what's demagogic is that you're talking about a health issue that you know absolutely nothing about, that you don't know what statistics are for in this kind of case, that you don't know that defibrillators are going to reduce the stopping and sudden extrahospital death, which has nothing to do with this. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, you need to have more knowledge. But I understand that at this moment it's all worth it, when in the replica shift of what you're talking about is the mayor of Ourense and you're not talking about what hemodynamics is, what cardiology is. [[Murmurs.]] Look, we always use the technical criteria to make decisions. This is how the Progaliam program has been awarded nationally, because it is one of the best study programs for acute myocardial infarction. And this Parliament has created Regaliam, which is the record not by political criterion, but rather by measuring all the records necessary to make the decisions. And decisions are made by many parameters, including response time. But the most important of all is mortality, and mortality in Galicia is below the canons that are understood as quality at national and European level. And we're going to keep working, because if it's really important from the very start of the early diagnosis, and we're going to go to a center, and follow the instructions, and what is accompanying with the 061. All this is very important, even if the parliamentary lady is laughing, it's all important. For us, our commitment to Ourense, as well as commitment to Lugo, is to analyze with sufficient time, with the precise cases, so that they have statistical significance -- it's called statistical significance; it's not a whimsical to say eighteen, to say three or forty-eight; statistical significance -- and with these criteria, if you produce what was produced in Lugo, Ourense will also have hemodynamics 24 hours in 2019. But for that we hope to have the results, to do the analysis, and not because some people don't have representation in the Council of Ourense want to vote in charge of this issue, which is much more important than all this. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-13-DSPG102.u491	Thank you very much, Counselor. Finished agenda items, end session. Thank you very much.
