ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u1	Good morning. Let's start the session. Good morning, the session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. He justified his inattentiveness to this full-time wife Concepción Burgo. We go into the agenda with the first point, which are legislative texts. Comprehensive discussion of the draft law on measures to guarantee supply in droughts and health risk situations
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u2	Amendments have been made to the whole at the request of the Joint Parliamentary Group, the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block in Wales and the Joint Parliamentary Group on the Left. For the presentation of the bill, the adviser to Infrastructure and Mobility, Ms. Ethel Vázquez Mourelle, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u3	Good morning. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we bring to this House the draft law on measures to guarantee supply in droughts and in health risk situations. It is the first law to adapt water management to the context of climate change and shield an axile and coordinated response between all public administrations to ensure supply. It's a pioneering legislative text, which Galicia will be more prepared for episodes of low rain, drought, and health alert. We've been working for a while. In fact, the legislative text comes out in October 2018, and it was already ahead of the Fegamp to address with the Fegamp this text before starting the official process. In February it was published at the Galician Board Transparency Portal and followed the hearing process to the various public and collective administrations to make their arrivals. The truth is that only 14 entities have submitted observations, which in most of them have been incorporated. After this process of public participation and the relevant sectoral reports, it was adopted at the Council on 4 July, and it is now, once referred to this House, in parliamentary procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, there has already been an effective water legislation for the year 2010 in the field of supply. But with this bill we sink into an important matter. It is a normative text on the management of the integral cycle of water as a new legal instrument for planning and managing dry and health-risk events; events that, of course, require prestige and require efficiency and agility in their response. The legislative text that we bring to the House today stems from the fact that Galicia needs to adapt water management to the climate change context. In recent years we have seen periods of rainfall associated with climate change, and this is clear that we need to prepare ourselves, of course, to prevent the water supply from being compromised. And what we're seeing is that it changed the way it rained. There are longer periods without rain and shorter periods with more intense rain. We have the example of 2017 -- the driest year of the last ten years -- it has rained 24% less; but we also have to take into account that the average precipitation of that year was 966 litres per square metre and therefore 24% more than in Murcia, for example. So, you lead us, of course, to conclude that we have to deploy tools to move forward in that change of water culture and get used to that we can't waste water. And of course also, in the matter of drinking water, every drop counts. Of course, public administrations have to act. It's the object of this law. Public administrations are the first to set an example. The experience in Galicia has shown that we must be more efficient in water management, avoid losses, avoid leaks in networks and, of course, avoid irresponsible consumption. We must be prepared and anticipate to establish in advance the mechanisms and procedures necessary to give an axile and effective response to these events of drought and health risk. That's why since the Galician Union we've been pushing this legislative text, a law for prevention, for greater effectiveness in water supply management and responsible use. It also clearly directs and delineates the action protocols for any situation of this type and to make it easier for public administrations, who have the competences — mainly local administrations — to adopt extraordinary measures and greater coordination to improve the functioning of emergency supply systems such as drought and health risk. In this bill we are very aware that ensuring the supply of water in quantity and quality to the population needs the collaboration of all public administrations responsible for the matter. They know that the management of the hydraulic public domain in Galicia has different entities responsible: conca organisms, Galician Waters, the basin of the Galicia-Costa demarcation. But we also have cocas dependent on the state: the mine-sil hydrographic demarcation, the Cantabria hydrographic demarcation and the Douro hydrographic demarcation — State competence. And the competences in the supply of drinking water to the population are essentially municipal, because that's what the Law says on the basis of local regimes. At Junta de Galicia, the powers that we have directly in the matter of water, through the waters of Galicia, as a conca organism, because they are to ensure the care of our rivers and, in relation to supply, are the authorizations of concessions for the capture of their tails. Also as Junta de Galicia we have the health authority through the Health Council. But, on the other hand, the direct powers in water supply are from the municipalities, which must be supported by the deputies. Deputies have the legal obligation and a fundamental role, by the Law of bases of local regime — enhanced by the Law of 2013, of rationalization and sustainability of the local administration — in the duty to assist the municipalities in their own jurisdictions, especially the municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants. Despite this role that has been assigned to Members, since the Galician Union we have been providing technical and financial support to the municipalities in their municipal powers of supply and sanitation since 2009. In particular, we have committed some 300 supply actions to help, support and assist 186 municipalities with important works — such as Cervo, Ames-Brion or Monforte. And of course we will continue to support and help the municipalities to exercise these powers of supply and sanitation, as we have always done. This Law on Guarantee Measures is therefore born with three fundamental objectives: the adequate supply of water in the urban water cycle, the assurance of supply in quality and quantity; the second is to reduce the vulnerability of water supply systems; and, lastly, the third objective, the protection of public health in case of health risk. Therefore, three most important objectives: the adequate provision of supply services, reducing vulnerability and the protection of public health. In line with this progress in the new change in culture from not wasting water, which must involve the whole of citizenship, public administrations — as I said — must be consistent and also set an example. That's why this bill makes special ends up looking for greater control and efficiency in the management of supply systems by promoting responsible use. The fact is that today there are a lot of municipal networks that can get lost on the network — i.e., leaks in the supply network — of up to 40%. I think we all have to conclude that it's nothing efficient and not reasonable either. Ladies and gentlemen, I think you can agree with me that citizens cannot be asked for greater control over the consumption of water, responsible conduct, while public administrations that have competence to manage supply have losses that are around 30% to 40% and are not remedied. I don't think it's consistent to ask citizens for efficient and responsible consumption when municipal networks have their networks with losses and leaks of up to 40%. You look at this map — which is the real loss of network water supply, drinking water supply, with INE data. Vexan Galicia and the rest of autonomous communities. Galicia is the fourth autonomous community that has the most network losses. Municipal competence is sanitation networks, as you must know. It is municipal competition that supply networks, with water that is captured, a water that is pumping, a water that is drinking — because it passes through the drinking water treatment station — that is taken to the warehouses and then distributed over the network, which is when it is lost. Of course this isn't efficient. If we shorten this, we will save water — therefore, we will have more reserves — we will save energy and also save citizens money. Galicia loses one out of every five liters on its networks from that municipal supply and, therefore, we are the fourth autonomous community. I think it's a matter that we have to cut short. We need to look for measures to cut these losses and net leaks because it's nothing efficient. It's even more worrying, when you see this INE data — the last ones are 2016 — if you see the history of the INE data for network losses. It is the worst data, the worst figure, since 2004 — an irregular downward trend but the worst figure as a result of losses in the municipal supply network. That is why I believe that this legislative text is important for you to have the measures you have, concrete and direct measures to shorten water loss in municipal networks. On the one hand, the obligation is placed on the municipalities of a flow control for each use of water; giving priority, of course, to the supply of water to the population, the first is the supply of water to the citizens. And to eradicate and shorten these net water losses, we propose two years in time for all municipalities to conduct audits to detect these losses on their networks. We know that this work can be complicated for the municipalities, so we give these two years for those audits. Installing flow counters will be required at capture points and at end supply points. Because the flow meters, the flow meters, are a small investment but a lot of information to shorten those net losses. From the Galician Union we will assist the municipalities. We'll help as we've always come to help, with a support line. We will enable a line of help in the 2020 budgets to help the municipalities install these flowmeters, these flow meters, in 2020; because we are sensitive to this issue and we want to help the municipalities in this task that must be everyone's. We hope that the state's deputies and hydrographic confederations, which also have powers as conca bodies — which we will all agree with — will also be involved in this joint task that we all have. Over these two years, one more year will be available to execute the works and correct these deficiencies below 20%, so that the losses are below 20% online. So we have two years to develop the water leak reduction plans and another year to run the works, which are reduced below 20%. At the Galician Summit we would like less time and with more reduction of net losses, logically — I understand that like everyone else — but it is an agreement with the Fegamp to have this schedule, this two-year audit plan and one year for the works, and to avoid those excessive losses on the network. After these three years, excessive net water losses will begin to be the object of a dissuasory recording, a finalist recording, to renew the net losses. And don't get me wrong and don't twist. We're working so that not a single euro will recur with this finalist recording to avoid net losses. What we want is not to raise a single euro, what we want is that there are no network leaks and make responsible use of water. Unfortunately, we have to propose for everyone to achieve this goal, and we have to propose to us all administrations. On the other hand, this law also promotes revisions of municipal tariffs to encourage efficient use, responsible use, easy to understand, that the tranches are based on actual consumed water volume and that they do not have specific minimums exempt from the tariff but rather directly depending on water consumption. Although the improvement of supply networks will make us less vulnerable, as I said, we have target number 2, which is the reduction of vulnerability, to prepare us to further minimize the impact of water scarcity. We have three instruments: planning, management measures and new infrastructures. Planning will be strengthened to achieve more efficiency and efficiency. We have to anticipate and think cold about the performances. Of course, improvised solutions are not the solution. And that's why we make the drought plans at all levels. First, the drought plans of the Galician Union Administration itself. And in the conca agencies, as a novelty, we will issue an annual follow-up report on the Galician Waters Dry Plan and update it. We're self-exacting ourselves first to demand after others. The municipal emergency plan is also required. We made a guide that serves the municipalities to carry out these drought emergency plans. Because the truth is, today, that no municipality — at least in the Galicia-Costa demarcation — has an emergency plan against drought. That's why we issued an order of help recently, in the month of June, for these emergency plans to be drafted. More than 80 applications have been submitted, we hope that the deputies and the confederations will also add up. Goal 2 is efficient management, enabling or facilitating those works from the drought plan, reuse of waste water, first being supply, and also running infrastructure. We have emergency, emergency infrastructure. Emergency personnel will be declared as such to do them immediately. They will prevail as an urban tool; and also the protection of public health, which clarifys health actions. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, a comprehensive, necessary, pioneer legislative text that aroused the interest of other autonomous communities. We concentrate on a single legal text on supply regulations to act swiftly, and in which the Galician Union will help the municipalities reduce water leakage in the networks, with the aim of reducing them by 20 per cent in three years. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia needs to be shielded from the challenges of climate change. I hope that in responsible use of water and in efficient management of this resource we will all find ourselves. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u4	Thank you, Counselor. The role of defence of amendments to the totality of return and positioning with respect to the bill. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u5	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. The Joint Parliamentary Group at its time introduced the amendment to the draft law on security of supply measures because we are concerned about certain aspects of this new law. Apart from that it may contravene certain normative provisions, as we see as the Galician Waters, which is a public entity, continues without developing the administrative processes that were granted to it on its day. Aware of the need for measures in order to ensure the proper protection of our water resources, the measures adopted in this law must be preceded by a thorough analysis of the purpose of avoiding actions that could irremediablely affect the public hydraulic domain. For which, firstly, it is essential that the legally established procedures be followed by intervention and, secondly, that there is consensus of all the administrations involved. She said that this law of measures had a lot of participation, but there were many organizations that were discovered by the press when those fourteen contributions that had already been included. From the Joint Parliamentary Group we reject the creation of a sanctioning regime for the municipalities. Because you're talking about sanctions in this law — you don't want us to cheat — if you're talking about sanctions. And we're talking about sanctions for the municipalities. So we refuse the creation of that sanctioning regime depending on the existence of losses or leaks. Instead of sanctioning, why don't these effective aids, perhaps, be enabled, which you have to give the Board to improve the municipal own networks and thus correct those leaks or leaks that there may be? You said — and I was saying well — that from January 2017 until April 2018 we had an episode of drought in our important country. This wasn't an isolated fact, this is going to happen again because of climate change. It rained 27% less than other years, but the result was that we had many months of scarce rains. In 2017 we recorded the same amount of rain as we needed it to fall before it was over February to prevent the drought itself from destroying itself. We're talking about where they had to rain 1,500 liters per square metre raining 650. This had an effect on our economy in rural areas, in the countryside: the grape harvest that year dropped by 50%, the livestock had to go through the pastures they were saving for winter and the chestnut production was significantly reduced. In the latter case, in the chestnut, a 50% reduction in the crop is also estimated. The drought that occurred in 2017 was not a timeless or extraordinary phenomenon, but the symptom of climate change that is taking place around the globe. Global warming is a reality whose effects we're beginning to feel tremendously now. For this reason it is necessary to take preventive measures in the medium and long term in order to shorten it and minimize its negative effects on our lives. In this line, the Economic and Social Council, which in its report of that year 2017 urged the Union to promote plans that would improve water management and use, clarifying competences, and ordering the Board itself to exercise administrative powers in the use of this public good. On the one hand, it is necessary to carry out campaigns to combat climate change itself in order to prevent the climate from further extremizing its conditions. Climate change is no longer an abstract threat that scientists often warn us of, but it is a reality that we have to fight with measures in the long term as well. And, on the other hand, it's necessary to set up a dialogue table. You were talking about participation, and that's something that didn't happen. The main actors affected by drought were not to discuss proposals that would help to address these effects. This table also had to be designed to design strategies and protocols to address situations similar to what we live in 2017. From In Marea do we think there are reasons to worry? Of course. Is this law necessary? This law is necessary. Do we see with good eyes the processing of this law? No, that's why we put that amendment back in its entirety. And besides seeing a lot of eyves, we think it might be a lost occasion. So once it's done, then do it right. We see it wrong to become of this new law because we have found very powerful background failures — as the German Government often has us used to these things when it deals with them — from the lack of participation, as we said, even with privatization. And we're talking about the water resource policy, aren't we? It's, again, a more burden of work for the municipalities. The law takes measures to implement in the event of drought. One of them is that Galician Waters, a body dependent on the Infrastructure and Mobility Council, can order private water rights from sources, wells, chafarics or water catchment mines, among other things. That's right, you can only do it in the demarcation that is of your competence. Similarly, Galician waters, in their area of competence, may order supply to the population with flow supplies for other uses, so it may be possible to restrict use of recreational activities. We see this well, since in this chapter the law foresees the urgent adoption of drifts or uptakes of surface water. "The Galician Union, the confederations and the municipalities must have emergency plans to know how to cope with future drought periods. They must be equipped with indicators or alerts that identify the arrival of drought and have planned alternative savings and supplies measures." Of course!, when I read this article I also had a deja vu: the municipal emergency plans that the Rural Council ordered to do by the 2017 fire strike. How many municipalities are there today with emergency plans? It's just that these emergency plans are already collected in the Water Law. Town Councils don't have this plan and the Water Law so requires. Town Councils that have less than 20,000 inhabitants and who have no resources can help themselves to make those plans. I don't know about other deputies, but at Ourense they're going to follow the Town Councils as they are, they're going to follow the Town Councils without plan; and, if not, at the time. What technical and economic means do the municipalities have to make these plans? I'm thinking about most of the municipalities of less than 1,000 inhabitants I know, to whom the House of Ourense is not going to help them. And these municipalities will be without the plan that this law itself demands them. After Junta, instead of helping — well, we're used to the last few years — instead of helping, it drowns the Town Councils again. The rule provides the Self-Government with capacity for action to ensure water supply if local authorities are not competent. That's right, then we're talking about sanctions to municipal authorities when they don't meet the rules that come out of this law. We are also very concerned about the flexibility of expropriatory and administrative procedures which are envisaged in some chapter in the event of urgent work, since in these urgent works certain procedures will not be guaranteed which block the rights or property of individuals or communities of neighbouring communities in common hands, and even that the relevant environmental procedures are respected. So if you want to simplify the procedures, I think what you should do here is to speed them up. Help them, yes, but no step in the process we have to skip. Because that's what's going to happen is that the relevant environmental procedures are not being carried out. And your board has to be one of the most interested in that. Very serious also seem to us other aspects of this law, such as reducing the ecological flows of rivers — so literally — in the event of an emergency. This is giving you the latest stockpiling of existing already weakened ecosystems by itself, which can give you the chance to understand that hydroelectric companies will benefit from this rule. It had to be on the contrary, the Galician Union should draw up a plan — and fulfil it — in which, at least, river biodiversity is catalogued and quantified, in which strategies are developed to recover the species themselves that are threatened, in which the populations of invasive species are controlled, as well as in the rivers of their competition — not all of them — exercise the functions that already contemplates the legislation itself for the fulfilment of the ecological flows in hydroelectric dams, as well as for the operation and maintenance of the systems of escalation for migratory species. That is, the opposite of what we think you've collected in this law, how to reduce the ecological flow of rivers in the event of an emergency. We have to shield the consumption of the population and the animals, yes, but we have to protect the hydrological flows because, if not, we're going to have a problem. Ordering -- here we're no longer reducing, here we order -- the use of regenerating water for industrial or hydroelectric uses -- we're not going to reduce electricity, we're just going to send them to order. We keep thinking this law is necessary, and it's very necessary. The problem is that, apart from getting late — this law has already been announced in 2017 and we are at the end of 2019 — we continue to say that this law did not have all the participation it should have, from professional schools, technicians of autonomic and municipal services, social movements with interest in the sector, and, in general, users. The period of reflection for the drafting of this law has not been opened, and in those aspects that were necessary to be more effective and more cost-effective with this resource, no such participation has been given. We are in the country of the thousand rivers and not only do we not have the water that we should have because of climate change, in the country of the thousand rivers together with the sad state that many of these rivers present. All we have to do is get close to the Low Limit to see the state of Conchas coronation. It's disgusting, it's angry, it's impotence to look at the sad landscape that we could see there. This has only two culprits: the Confederation and the Union. Yesterday, on Monday, the advertising committee of the Government of Galicia has already rushed to draft the news for The Voice of Galicia: "The gravity of the weaver of 2017 has brought to light the absence of measures to cope with an episode of water scarcity, which forced it to create a law that not only collected how to act in the event of drought but also established measures to improve the channelization and optimize supply." These measures include the placement of approved counters for consumption measurement — they have to be installed by individuals — the drafting of an audit to quantify losses for two years — the municipalities — the adoption of a plan to minimize such losses — the municipalities — and the completion of improvement works on the network so that water leaks do not exceed 20% — the municipalities. Do our municipalities have enough technical and economic resources to cure what Galician Waters hasn't done in recent years? And then they come up with the emergency plans that we talked about before. They will be compulsory, as you said, for municipalities of more than 20,000 inhabitants. The poor will be able to take control of the provincial deputies. I say — and I hope I'm wrong — that, as with forest fire prevention plans, we're going to spend years and the municipalities won't have the ability to make those plans. But those plans that refer to this law that we are debating here today were, as we have already said, an imposition that already collected the regulations of the waters of Galicia, and that no council has done. What has the Galician Union done or dedicated to Galician Waters in recent years? You converted people's right to water into a business, and allowed private companies to cover, today, by that right -- a basic right for life -- and it was with the approval of the Water Law a few years ago. Today they could amend that situation a little bit in the process of this law, but they didn't. We have to make responsible use of water, of course. But water is a public good, it's a good of nature and therefore can't be a business object for any kind of company. Besides, water must be a free asset for the lives of people, animals and society. In time, we denounce that we cannot decide by law whether it is a private law firm, such as Galician Waters, to manage a basic resource for life, as water can be. And when we talk about privatizing, it's not that you privatize a supply, a debugging or a service, but that you privatize the element itself, which is water. That's the really serious thing. Of course, the rights of exploitation —the supply network — we have to charge them, of course, yes, or of debugging, of the debuggers, of the EDARs, of course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u7	...but the right of collection about the use of water, rain and sea, that is a right of people. The right to water is a basic right for people, and you're privatizing and playing with this good. Today we have lost an important opportunity — and I am finished President — to be able to move forward towards the remunicipalization of this service. In our country, all water management is left to a company, Galician Waters, which is public, so that with the new law it becomes private law, which means an absolute aberration that goes against human rights. Because water, as we said, is a human right, as established by the UN, and goes against the fundamental right to life of people and animals privatize it. For my part, for now, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u8	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u9	Good morning, Counselor. His intervention could be entitled "He passed by here, no phone nearby and I couldn't resist it." It's just you don't go through here! You have been primarily responsible for the waters of Galicia since 2009. You've been the president of Galician Waters since 2009 and now it's the fault of "cha, cha, cha", the fault of the Town Councils. [[Applause]] But what did you guys do? What you just told yourself of this pioneering law -- which is not a pioneering law, which is, in any case, a law of the last century, because you to all the laws put to them the "pioneer" qualification; it is absolutely predictable, when they come here they always bring a pioneering law -- which you just told us here, is the finding of a failure, the failure of the policies carried out by the People's Party over ten years, it's a decade of prosecution, Counselor, it's a lost decade. You come here to discover your shames, so clearly; to discover what they had to do and that they did not. Because, besides, you put them in the papers and they didn't. And then we'll talk about it, which I've got a lot of shrapnel here. But the worst is not that, the worst is all they did and did in reverse; all they did in reverse, against European directives, against all environmental legislation. And you're still here talking to us about climate change. But if they didn't even put the words "climate change" in this law! What are you talking about? They don't even talk about the law of climate change. And they don't talk about prevention either. You in this law don't talk about climate change or prevention. They had a wonderful exposition of motives to do a dissertation on the very serious consequences climate change is having on our reality, and on water and many other issues that we're going to talk about. And now, after ten years of disillusionment on their part, of paralysis and defeat, it turns out they want to throw hot potatoes to the municipalities — to the municipalities of more than 20,000 inhabitants, because the others don't seem to count. Look, the Water Framework Directive -- which, by the way, is now under review -- is going to be reviewed immediately, and maybe they're making you change the law later, as the General Legal Counsel changed it, which has turned it into an unrecognizable law; what you sent and what you came after has nothing to do with it. Well, the Water Framework Directive talks about the clear principles of water policy, it talks about participation. And you come here pretending that there have been 14 allegations of a law that has such a transcendence in people's lives. But isn't it embarrassing?Oh, my God! It's just that participation doesn't rain from the sky, participation must cause it, it must be made possible, it must be made participatory processes. Mr. Trenor gets nervous about his participation. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's okay, I got you, too. Don't worry. [[Murmurs.]] Well, yes, it's a very poor balance of the 14th, 14 claims, in a law. There are other governments that open up participatory processes and what they do is to call the entities to meetings, to convene the councils. There are 22 Greek municipalities directly affected by this law. You should talk to each of them. Why do you think the municipalities — the one of Ribeira, for example, or the one of the Road — know what comes to them with this law? You think they know? When they know they'll put their hands on him, I assure you. Some of them didn't, because some of them did their homework. Look, apart from that, we also have that the European directive is certainly talking about cost recovery, which you are not talking about either and is one of the keys precisely for prevention policies. Don't look back, look forward, Counselor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Cost recovery, tariffs, tariff structure... is that it? [[Murmurs.]] Is that the reference tariff structure? Is that the local water pact? Is that all we have approved in this Parliament and that you have not been able to do it? That's one of the keys to water policy, cost recovery. It is clear from the Water Framework Directive. What's wrong? That you — we have told you many times — are a kamikaze driver who goes in the opposite direction and thinks that those who go backwards are the others. But you're the ones who go backwards in politics that are going to sharpen the consequences of climate change. In addition, we have a law of the year 2006 for the protection of rivers. And what did you do with this law? Well, ignore her. Why? Because it was a law of the Bipartite. Go back, bad bipartito! A law of the Bipartite? Worse... well, no. What did they do with this law? Look at what this law says: "A plan of environmental education related to household, industrial and agro-gaging uses of water will be developed in order to prioritize reduction of consumption and prevention of pollution, with specific attention to both urban and rural environment, in order to begin building a new water culture." This law is from 2006, Counsellor, and you kept it hidden, locked in a drawer. And he clearly set the way forward. But, of course, you didn't, and you went in the opposite direction. It's understood that they do so in a law that did "the damn Bipartite." Now you have a lethal bipartite in Ourense, but Ourense's lethal bipartite is no longer bad, it's good. But, well, it was hopedful with a Bipartite law, but not with its own legislation, with the water law that you approved as president of the waters of Galicia and with all the normative development it had. Because we didn't agree with many aspects of that law, but you weren't even able to apply it, to carry it out. And I'll explain. Look, that law provides for the Sustainable Use of Water. It was in the law of 2010. Do you know what happened to the Sustainable Water Council? We're waiting for that advice to be created for the sustainable use of water. Don't you think it's an important question? For that is the importance that you give to the sustainable use of water, which has not even been able in nine years to create a board of social participation. And they come here talking about participation precisely so that society becomes involved in the answer and solution to that problem. They're blankets like managers, they're a disaster. Second, the Greek Supply Plan and the local plans, provided by the law of the year... No, no... Don't come here with the Water Plan, which we'll also talk about the Water Plan. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's not the Water Plan. Also in the 2015 planning regulation... by the way, you made a law in 2010 and it took five years to make a planning regulation. They didn't even come here, either. No, they didn't, Counselor. And you're not doing the supply plan now, the German General Supply Plan, which you've placed as a responsibility for the German Government. Don't blame the Town Councils. And there is, in the Galicia-Costa hydrological plan, 500,000 euros to draw up this plan. When are you going to do it? When are you going to do it, Counselor? I'm asking you specifically when they're going to do it, which has 500,000 euros on the Galicia-Costa hydrological plan. And do you know what the 2015 planning regulation says? So it says the following, that general supply plan has to be done to have a specific action programme aimed at rationalizing water consumption and the consequent saving of water resources. And what did you guys do, what did this task do in 2015 for this? What have you done for specific actions for rationalizing water consumption and saving water resources? Nothing, zero kicker! Second. This regulation also said that the German General Supply Plan, which you didn't, had to contain the general criteria consistent with the drought plans for the development by the local corporations of your emergency plans. I mean, you want the municipalities to make emergency plans, but you haven't done the general criteria that have to have those plans. And now you come here to announce a guide, a guide that the state is making. And what about the local water pact, which says about the local water pact! that you announced, renunciated, sold and requisitioned. He was the ineffable Agustín Hernández, his boss and predecessor, and now awarded nothing more and nothing less than the presidency of the Economic and Social Council — he must be concerned about good health and the care of the Greek rivers. Well, do it. In 2013, Madam Counsellor, where were you? He was still in Galician waters. Year 2013: "Junta is given a year of time to deal with a single receipt of water." It was in 2013, and a year of deadline for a single water receipt. We're in 2019, it's been six years. His years seem to be too long. And your boss, Mr. Hernández, made an appearance in this Parliament in December 2013, in the month of December, precisely to announce the bomb and dish the Water Pact and the unique tariff for the whole of Galicia. And they kept talking in 2014, in 2015, in 2016... Mrs. Bea Mato also announced in 2017 that they would give a definitive boost to the local water pact. And still above they brought here an agreement — Mr Trenor — assuming that they were able to reach agreements. They approved an agreement, they promoted an agreement, which is a wet role: "Determining clear criteria of priority in investments in hydraulic works". But, of course, they're not interested in approving it, because they can't take the water to their mill and continue financing their municipalities. And, secondly, that agreement said, "Setting a reference tariff structure." And we're waiting. And, look, it's already the biggest proof of the failure of the Galician Union's hydraulic policy in these nine years, apart from the low budget execution — they left 200 million euros behind in this period — because that's the situation we have in supply in the Vigo area. Counselor, there were 7 million registered in the hydrological plan... [[Murmurs.]] You are looking for it. You are querying. [[Laughter]] No, you can, you can... you can, because I'm sure you can take care of me at the same time. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'll do it, too. [[Murmurs.]] Seven million euros, Counselor, on the 2010-2015 Hydrological Plan for Supply from Eiras, and you didn't invest that money. They've been fighting for years in an absolutely absurd and childish war with the Vigo Council without solving this issue. Now they're going to do a study. Now they're going to do a study many years later. But, look, the underlying problem isn't even this, it's not their mismanagement, their bad government, that they didn't run their own plans. The problem is not this, the underlying problem is that you don't analyze the context exactly where we are now and you don't look for integral solutions. You go back to patch solutions, solutions that only analyze the supply and don't analyze the entire ecosystem, all the reality that has to do with water. They don't understand that we are precisely in this new context of climate change, what you are not talking about in this law, and what you are talking about, by the way, the report just published by the Observatory on Sustainability, which paints a really dramatic panorama for Galicia in the coming decades. You are still like the kamikaze driver who goes contrary, because you — the Galician Union — are a real factory, the largest factory, of climate change in this country with all its policies favoring climate change, with water policies, of course, but also with waste policies, energy policies, mobility policies, infrastructure policies — or not? — forest policies... Or is it just about catching water in the rivers or in underground captures and taking it? The water issue has a lot to do with all these sectoral policies. And you're going in the opposite direction, Counselor. Now they come with more than that, you come with a law that puts palliative solutions and reactive solutions. It puts reactive solutions, not preventive solutions, which is what we should talk about in a law like this that you bring us here. You only propose measures to increase the supply, when what we had to talk about, above all, is measures that are needed, for example, to reduce demand — and to improve the efficiency, of course, of management. And there are many places that are getting this. Because you brought here a map which is precisely an indictment. You, with that map, what I was saying is that Galicia is a disaster, it's from the worst communities in the Spanish state. And you have nothing to do with it, it's the city hall's fault. How can you come here to say that, when we are at the first spots of the ranking of consumption per inhabitant — and rising —? Aren't you worried about that? What were they doing to avoid it when there were regulations that provided for acting on that issue? And besides, you act, as always, in haste and with precipitation, with precipitation. This isn't about "precipitation," it's, in any case, "precipitation." But you're in a hurry, and the rushes are bad companions. They haven't done their homework in three years in legislative matters, in this legislation. And now they're in a hurry, running, seeing as they're passed a lot of laws in the last year. But that's not how things are done, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. Look, I'm going to read you a press headline, see if you can agree, "A plan of 823 million to secure supply and reduce leaks to half." This plan was announced by the Galician Union in 2010, when you were president of Galician Waters. What was that plan? Because you were going to solve the problem in 2010. And you come here to blame the municipalities, when they said at that time that you had to.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u11	That's why, of course, we don't accept this law. We want another law, a law made with maximum participation and maximum consensus for the entire territory of Greece, for urban supply but also for the needs of economic and industrial activity, land and livestock, sustainable, which differentiates drought situations and timely drought episodes, with effective measures to prevent, preserve and sustainable use of resources, with measures too — which are not here — of saving, reuse and reduction of consumption, with effective measures to reduce losses in the distribution of the network, as is already being done, Counsellor, in some municipalities, as is being done by the Pontevedra Council, which has 3.6% of losses on the network. That's the example. This is the model. The model of the village — which is a good village — that gives drink to the passerby. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u12	Thank you, Mr Bará. For the Joint Left Group, Mr. Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u13	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. As you know, our group has tabled a comprehensive amendment to this bill, because it's a law that doesn't serve the purpose that is put on the table, because it's a negationist law, that denies climate change, that doesn't name climate change. You named him here, but his bill does not take into account the climate change framework in all his proposals. If you want, I'll explain later, I'll explain a little bit, but it won't give me time to go deep into everything. It is a bill that does not take account of the regulatory framework, with the transposition of the Water Framework Directive, which clearly prioritizes environmental conservation in terms of water cycle conservation, which you in this bill do not take into account either. And because it affects and gives continuity to a failed model. You were talking about the data we have in Galicia. It's obviously the data of your model, your failed model, based on privatization, the mercentilization of service and concrete. [[Murmurs.]] No, please, you seem to have never ruled Galicia. Maybe it's our fault. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's a bill that represents an old-fashioned strategy against drought, ineffective, irresponsible and foolish. An antiquated strategy, for you are still anchored in the past century, clinging to an old culture of concrete and privatization; a strategy that is not effective to give a real response to the new drought episodes—maximum in the current climate change framework, which you observe in this law. It is a bill that involves the irresponsibility of not addressing the environmental recovery and conservation of our aquatic ecosystems, thus violating the objectives of the Water Framework Directive. It's a deeply foolish strategy, as it elucidates the application of the precautionary principle against climate change. You've spent too much time denying climate change, too many years eluding the responsibility of addressing droughts as something peculiar to our climateology, too long looking at Rajoy's cousin, without addressing drought as a real problem and blinded by his negationist myopia. Even though it does not seem to be dare to deny climate change, it does seem that they dare — and they still cheat us again, as they do with this law — to relaunch old policies, to promote businesses based on large transfers, more arrests and privatization of service. But, look, the solution isn't about promoting new coronations. Promoting new coronations as a solution to future droughts in a climate change scenario is a futile and wrong strategy. It's like giving a poor man a wallet. The poor man already has money, which he doesn't have money. So if we make more support and more infrastructure, we can have more infrastructure without water. What we have to do is preserve the resource, which is what you forget about this bill proposal. In future droughts, if we make more infrastructure, we'll have more dams without water, like we have airports without planes or highways without cars. The solution does not go through the construction of new transvasions either. Transvasions are equally useless in times of drought, because droughts are not a local phenomenon, droughts are regional in nature. So that they understand me: when the Tambre comes into dry, the Ulla, the Sar or the Xallas also enters. And when there's a need for supplies in Vigo, the Verdugo is also in a situation of water stress. So it's not a solution for a drought emergency. What this is about is addressing a hydrological transition to the current situation. We have an obligation to bet on public policies that reduce social and environmental vulnerability to drought periods. Addressing a hydrological transition, which becomes a legal requirement with the transposition of the Water Framework Directive into state law, becomes, with climate change, an urgent and unapproachable reality. We must therefore act urgently, move from the old culture of the concrete to the environmental intelligence of sustainability, recover our rivers and our aquifers, which are the water lungs that give us nature, which are our real and effective reserves of quality water in periods of drought. And, above all, it is necessary to move from the suicide of myopia negationist to the strict application of the precautionary principle against climate change, which you ignore in this law. Climate change has as its main generator vector the energy vector, no doubt about it. That's why we need to take an energy transition. But, as far as socio-environmental impacts are concerned, the key, the main vector, is the water vector. And that's why we need to address the challenge of hydrological transition. You must overcome the wrong conjunctural and exceptional conception of drought periods, which is what you do in this obsolete bill. It is necessary to assume them as a recurrent, structural and inevitable phenomenon, which necessarily implies changing the established approach. The problem must be tackled from an perspective of the chronic shortage of water. And since his negationism, this is not possible. In this context, it is a huge mistake to bet on old supply strategies through new seizures, new transvasions, instead of prioritising new demand management strategies. This is an immeasurable waste of public funds for an absolutely wrong and not effective strategy, because it assumes drought cycles as local and non-regional phenomena, so investing in transvasions and dams will not increase the availability of water resources. We will have transvasions in both origin and destination subject to the same water stress, and we will have empty containers. And before we go on, we want to make it clear. We have in essence nothing against the transvasions, the embassies, as we have nothing against the airports or highways. What we're against is empty containers, empty transvasions, airports without planes and highways without cars. [[Applause]] We must recover our rivers and our aquifers as a really effective strategy to cope with drought, as said in the Water Framework Directive and as binding on the Galician Union. One of the fundamental objectives of the Framework Directive is the protection and conservation of the environmental quality of all waters, rivers, aquifers, wetlands, lakes and coastal waters. This is not the competence of the councils, Counsellor, this is the main act. You're not doing it and you forget about it in your bill, which is directed solely to place responsibility in the municipalities. If they want to do something really useful to prevent and mitigate the effects of drought, they stop systematically violating the Water Framework Directive, take seriously the sanitation of our rivers and rivers, bet on the recovery of hydroelectric power plants, stop betting on polluting projects like the Touro mine—lethal to the life of our rivers. Take seriously, once and for all, waste management and accept that the model of large spills will make our water resources real cloacas. They don't allow business lobbyists to dictate forest policies and turn the Galician mountain into a great green desert. Finally, do your job. If you really want to do something useful for the efficiency of supply networks, if you want to reduce the percentage of network leaks, you bet on the public water management. The privatization process of recent years has put water management into a context of private benefit priority in relation to the common good, and so they indicate the data, so the data, Counselor. The consequences of this model, the model you defend for water management, are clear: lack of investment in the supply network, a percentage of unacceptable leaks, obsolescence of the harvesting system, positivity and water purification and much, much, much corruption. And you know a lot about this! Abandon the path of mercantilization... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Are you surprised at the corruption of the PP now? Surprise cry, Counselor? Abandon the path of mercantilization and privatization of water. You can't do business with what it's all about, you can't do business with a human right like water. We can't leave in the hands of the market what the market can't manage, how they're showing the data; and how they demonstrate the comparative data between where there's public management and where there's private management. It's just that you, Counselor, should know and not deny with your head, because the data so indicates. They understand that water, which provides us with water, is not replaced by any market goods. And they stop throwing balloons out, doing their job, they stop charging the city halls, charging local administrations with the consequences of the irrationality of their privatization model. Finally, if they want to alleviate and predict the effects of the crisis, they bet on participation, transparency, public participation mechanisms, to avoid the calamities of corruption. Anticipates, focus their efforts on designing strategies for prevention and management of new cycles, so that zozobra and social alarm in drought periods do not lead us to make bad decisions, such as those you wanted to take two years ago with the crossing of the River Verdugo. They comply with the Water Framework Directive, they make a bet determined by the recovery and the good ecological state of all our waters. It's their primary responsibility, that they don't fulfill and that they don't take this bill into account. They bet on demand management strategies, savings and awareness from economic rationality. They bet on the public management of the entire water cycle as a great challenge of country. They put in place urban and territorial management measures from sustainability criteria, so that new urbanisations require a caudal certificate of availability with a guarantee of supply in drought periods. They have budgetary instruments for our municipalities and apply strictly the precautionary principle for climate change. All these are measures that you can do, that can happen to you, and stop attacking, criticizing and charging against the Town Councils. You've spent too much time denying climate change, Counselor, to really understand what its consequences are. And that's why you don't understand the current situation, and that's why they bring a bill that's a bill that we can understand validly as a starting point for a situation that isn't climate change. But at a time of climate change, of course, it's a law that's totally out of place. You have left the supply networks in the hands of the market and you know what their consequences are: ineffectiveness and corruption, too much corruption! You don't understand what to do, you don't know what to do, because your policies are marked by big business lobbyies. Stop fooling people with this bill, which is useless, which is useless, that doesn't deal with the problem. Take care to do your job, with the responsibilities of the Galician Union, before there are any solutions that are valid, before it's too late. For me, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u14	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Non-amendant groups. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, Counselor. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, allow me to make an explicit acknowledgement to the knowledge of Luís's work Eduardo Aute by Mr. Bará Torres, for that reference to Passaba here that made the lady counselor; a reference which I understand correctly because you, Counselor, with all due respect, what you came here was not the presentation of a bill, came to make an appearance. He came to make an appearance in which, in addition, he completely forgot to talk about what we understand is one of the essential parts of this bill as well: the one referring to the health assurance of water supply. You spoke, I think, fifteen seconds at the end, obviously a fundamental part of this bill as well. The fact is that the Council of Galicia, already in November -- excused in March 2018 -- that is, a year and a half ago, was aware of a report from which it was the Council for the Environment and Planning of the Territory for the submission to the public consultation prior to a preliminary draft of a bill of measures on the use of water resources. So we were told that Junta was working on two normative instruments to ensure the supply of water in sufficient quantity and quality. One was about measures for drought events and exceptional situations, and another, a special plan for improving the monitoring of water quality for human consumption. Now this is presented as a single bill; which, in itself, is not necessarily bad. The fact is that this regulatory forecast was part of the annual regulatory plan for 2018, without such a forecast being met. I mean, we're about to end the year 2019. By the way — as it may be passing through — we do not know what is the policy plan for the year 2019 of the Galician Union, which is unpublished and approved, despite the legal obligation that exists from the publication of that regulatory plan, as you well know. And the powers and regulations on waters in Galicia are mainly gathered in that law which was repeatedly referred to by the spokesmen who preceded me: Law 9/2010, of waters of Galicia, to which this parliamentary group at that time held an opposing position; norm to which you referred as "an effective legislation." And if that effective legislation is a norm that has undergone 32 regulatory changes through eight different laws, and that even this bill specifically envisages five new amendments — so we will be in 37 normative changes in a text through nine different laws — I think it is good to show that we were not wrong when we said that law, the water law of Galicia, would not solve problems and that was being processed without the necessary reflection and analysis necessary. But this is generally part of the water policy — both supply and purification — of the People's Party, and therefore of the Galician Union. You would make the drafting of a regulation on the integral water cycle providing for coordination mechanisms between municipalities and autonomous administration, which would analyse quality standards in planning and service delivery, regulation of neighbouring betrays, private debugging systems and tariff aspects and recovery of economic costs. None of this was done, except for a rule, with a decree range, of the year 2015, so a rule four years ago. You were going to boost the local water pact, which was also referred to on repeated occasions — a necessary reference, of course, in the context of this bill of law that we are talking about. You were, within this empowerment of the Local Water Pact, to sign a framework agreement between different administrations to reach agreements and respect them from all areas for their subsequent transfer to autonomous water regulations. What's the reality? What is the reality of this impulse, this empowerment of the local water pact? Well, the reality is that November 4, 2013 — therefore, six years ago — you signed a protocol, a protocol six years ago — I repeat because this is relevant. And it turns out that, in six years, three meetings of the institutional commission were held — last in May 2015, so four and a half years ago — and seven meetings of the technical commission — last in April 2016; hence more than three years ago. You're going to draw up technical instructions for the development of small water and purification systems. Where are those instructions? You were going to regulate the promotion of Galician waterways through the establishment of a quality seal. Where is he? You were going to develop a unique, financially sustainable model in the exploitation of Galicia's purification systems. Where is he? Well, it's true that at least our parliamentary group has knowledge through the press that you're starting to do something in this direction. Because there seems to be certain media outlets that perfectly know the content of that audit that you must have and that our parliamentary group had to request through Article 9 so that we, as parliamentarians we are, could be referred to as information that the press already knows as much as possible. This is the reality. [[Applause]] You were going to put in place a technological system of efficiency improvement in the management of Galician hydraulic infrastructures, which is absolutely necessary. Where is he? And here I have to make this reflection: if you talk, as if you tell us repeatedly here, I think you have a severe episode where you're moving. I mean, they're quiet and, therefore, they better start doing it so they can keep saying what they're talking about. You were going to make a strategy for the international exploitation of the Galician Water Management Model. Counselor, spectacular! From Galicia to the world! From Galicia to the world! Perhaps for now, they are silent until they have something to teach the world, or at least the rest of the autonomous communities. What if I recognize you, I do recognize you, is that this law is a pioneer in the state. That's true. But, look, there's nothing about all this I was telling you. We're not going to talk about the flood zone strategy anymore, which, beyond time action, does not exist. It is relevant, in this debate, to give small brushes on budgetary data — i.e. the money of all the Greeks that manage Galician Waters —: "Planning and Hydrological Management" — Programme 542A — and "Infrastructural and Supply and Sanitation Management" — Programme 542B —. In recent years there has been a systematic and permanent decrease in the counties that the Galician Union transfers to Galician Waters, which are a sign against the own resources of such an organism. Logically, and if we analyzed the data, for example in 2013 — six years ago — Junta transferred 47.5 million euros; and, in 2019, 29.5 million. Opposite sign: Galician Water tax revenues in 2013 were 55 million euros; and in 2019 they were 61. And the main sources of tax revenue are the known and poorly employed water canon, which increased from 48 million in 2016 to 52 million in 2019; the green coefficient, which keeps income and forecasting constant income; and administrative rates, which is the least relevant chapter of these revenues. But the truth is that in the last four years —2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 — Galician waters predict a tax revenue of 236 million euros, which is said soon! It's a lot of money if you use it well. And, of course, as Galician waters are not part of the consolidated budgets of the Galician Union, they don't report on execution. And, therefore, we have to go to the general account of the Autonomous Community of the years 2016, 2017 and 2018 — which we have just met — to find out what is the level of execution of budgets in Chapter VI of Galicia's Waters. And here we have to say necessarily that it produces an absolute stupor to check how over the last three years Galician waters had 160 million euros in Chapter VI, which contracted bonds for 49 million euros, and which therefore left without running 111 million euros in three years. Frankly, we have to conclude that this is a disastrous management of the purpose for which that money is conceived, for what the investments of Galician Waters are designed. As far as we all know — and you too know — that each year's investments have -- let's use an euphemism -- a high degree of opacity. In other words, it can be mentioned that on many occasions the criteria for choosing certain investments are not unknown. No known schedule. They never existed. They don't care. Although it seems that with this law you intend that this planning exists. But so far they have not been interested in the existence of a known planning of these actions, which, in many cases, seem to follow the biased criteria. The preliminary draft was aware of an impossive modality — which was also referred to — but the bill finally does not incorporate that tax figure. It refers to the drafting of a bill, which must be submitted within three years, on that figure. It seems that some respect should impose on them — at this moment almost pre-electional with regard to autonomous elections — to create an impossive figure, which also does not know very well about who will fall directly, i.e. who will be the passive subject of that new tax. This project had to be informed by the Water Sustainable Use Council, according to the Galician Water Law. But the council is not — nine-year-old of the adoption of this law — constituted. So, in his fault, he seems to have been informed by the Galician Waters Rector Council. Beyond all this situation, with regard to the bill that we are starting the debate, we understand water as a potent, dynamizing and cohesion element of the territory for the economic and social development of Galicia, which is particularly important in our community, which is characterized — as we all know — by a large population dispersal that greatly hinders the arrival of these services to the entire population. We understand that, in order to achieve this objective, it is necessary to modernise supply networks by also providing assistance to neighbouring entities, which were in many cases those which built and maintained water supply networks; the automation, innovation and modernization of drinking water treatment plants; supra-municipal agreements — we agree — with the aim of optimising the use of infrastructures — especially deposits, drinking water treatment stations and pumps —; the homogenization of a water cycle tariff system in accordance with Article 9 of the Water Framework Directive, which sets the importance of cost recovery and the fact that prices should be used as an incentive to improve the efficiency of water consumption; and greater progress in the collection of water canon, and not to link to domestic uses solely the volume of water consumed, but also the activity that is carried out by the business or the company. We could also talk about debugging, but of course this is not the objective of this bill. Finally, we support a hydrological planning and management of the appropriate water policy policy — and appropriate to the Framework Directive on European Water Water Framework Directive — and that we support the objectives in addition sufficiently enough, and therefore we support a sustainable, medium- and long-term water planning and management of the appropriate water policy and appropriate water policy - and that we support the European Water Framework Directive, and that it also adequately fulfil the objectives, and that it ensure sufficient medium- and long- and medium- and long-term drinking water in the context of increasingly severe and frequent drought droughts caused by climate change; a comprehensive and efficient management of the demands of all water resources available in the operating systems, both superficial and underground, and those resulting from reuse, and those resulting from reuse; a medium- and long- and long-term guarantee of sufficient, medium- and long-term drinking water water water, and water that ensures that sufficient water and water resources, and water supply, and water management, as well as measures available for water and water management, taking the common public domain good as a common public domain good that is essential for the purpose for the X initiative to life; and ensure from life; and sustainable measures; and to ensure that life; and to ensure a sustainable, and to ensure the effective, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement the measures; and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement the measures; and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement the measures; and implement, and implement, and implement the measures; and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement For these reasons I have just explained, our parliamentary group aims to improve, in the process of this bill, this text, to which 183 amendments have been tabled in total, which realizes that it is an improved project, even from the point of view of the People's Party. Because — I repeat — there are 183 amendments to a law which has 31 articles, 6 additional provisions, 2 transitional provisions and 8 final provisions. It is a necessary law — in fact, there were parliamentary groups that preceded me that they consider this to be a necessary law — and it is a better project. We therefore do not submit a refund amendment because we understand that it is absolutely necessary and — I repeat — we aspire to improve it thoroughly in its parliamentary process. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u16	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Trenor López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u17	Good morning, gentlemen. Mr. Álvarez, of the law you spoke little, but I am glad that you have not tabled an amendment to the whole and that somehow you have recognized some of the kindnesses that this law has, and also that you have recognized that it is a pioneering law, because the truth that denying such matters is to enter into debates sometimes a bit absurd. I hope — as you also hope and wish — that in the parliamentary process we can reach agreements, and I can also enjoy the humor you have, that I have not yet had the chance to enjoy doing committee work. But you are consistent with the agreements that have already been in the prior process of this law. And that's for me, too, I think it's a thank you. To a certain extent, you also recognize that this law comes after a dialogue, then arrive at agreements mainly with those affected by this law. And in that sense, we're going to continue that path that has already begun. Mr. Rodríguez, after your intervention, I think I don't know if you're in accordance with the law or not in accordance with the law. I don't know if you've really regretted presenting a whole amendment, I don't know if you thought through some partial amendments you could actually better reflect what you think of this law. But, well, I was surprised that you had made reference in your exposure to the Constitution — now he did not refer to it but in the Register he did — but I want to tell you that at all times we respect local autonomy and the responsible and competent entities in the supply system. I am grateful that you have doubts about whether we are invading these powers, because it makes it clear, at least, that the competences are from the municipalities. That's because it says it to the law of local regime bases. Also — as the councillor reminded you — provincial deputies have an obligation to support and assist the municipalities, especially those with less than 20,000 inhabitants. And also the Galician Union, despite the powers of the municipalities and their deputies, is providing technical and financial support — which is almost most important — to the municipalities themselves. Since 2009, there have been more than 300 supply actions, of which more than one hundred and fifty municipalities have benefited. Furthermore, from the waters of Galicia the local sanitation plans have been developed, the creation of consortia, both for supply and for sanitation and for the entire cycle of water — also assuming the exploitation of EDAR, which was not the case, Mr Bará. Supply services are also provided from the waters of Galicia to several municipalities. Help commands were made for the development of the city's water planning. And also, ladies and gentlemen, for emergency plans to be developed in the face of drought to ensure the supply of water to the population. That is the purpose of this law, to ensure the supply of water in quality and quantity. And that happens, in addition, by the collaboration between all the administrations that have responsibility in the field. It's no good to be denying everyone's competences, and it's no good to give up and not to exercise the powers that the different administrations have. Collaboration is necessary, but it is also necessary to be responsible, not only to count on infrastructure, but also to keep it and to invest the amounts of fees that are being charged for the provision of maintenance and replacement services. They're the city halls responsible for their networks and they're the ones who know them better than anyone else. And as much as you want to help, if the municipalities don't take it seriously there's nothing to do. At least what they ask about the water that invests it in the networks, that invests it also in the water, and not that it gets out for different issues. Some of them may be more important, but in other cases water resources are being used for parties or for issues that are frankly not a priority for any municipality. And then you make reference -- and that's what all the groups do -- to a sanctioning regime to the municipalities, to punitive measures. And we can't admit that approach, that reading you make. Because what you say is that a deterrent mechanism is set up to encourage responsible use of water, to contribute to efficient use of this resource. Look, the counselor said that we can't assume the level of losses we have. I found another article where I put water leaks in Galicia equivalent to the consumption of Madrid and Catalonia in a month. All right, we can get into the debate about who the competition is. For you, it's the recognition of a model. Frankly, Mr Bará, they've been ruling in Pontevedra for 20 years; in Lugo I don't know how many years they've been, and in Vigo for three quarters of it. I mean, these are many municipalities where you've been ruling for more than two decades and where you haven't done anything at all. And I remind you, when we talk about 40%, it's because it's the average of all the municipalities, where you've been ruling for many years and you haven't done anything at all. With which, when the counselor complains that they're losing 40%, instead of laughing, instead of making a bit of a scratch, at least think about what they did wrong and try to fix it. Be a little humble. The goal? Place water losses below 20%. Regarding the improvement of supply networks, the law states that it will be mandatory to have controls approved by the flow rate at both the pick-up points and the final supply points. And these counters are essential mechanisms to know the losses of the network and act, so that we can prepare ourselves for extreme drought situations. You've asked for wider deadlines for the installation of counters. But this measure was dealt with, in particular, with the Fegamp and the rest of the water sector agents. And they were listened and, in addition, adapted the deadlines to their demands and proposals. I don't know whether or not you've talked to these agents and to Fegamp to come up with this proposal they're making. In our group too, we argue that not only do the municipalities have to reduce consumption and control consumption, but also those large consumers, like companies, contribute by consuming less water. And that's why we defend a dissuasory canon for water consumption for industrial use. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the law has no purpose to sanction, nor establishes any punitive procedure. The only requirement is for measures that in many cases should already be implemented and which only seek to achieve an improvement in management that has an impact on the achievement of environmental targets. Mr. Cal, gentlemen of the Power Group, two things. Plagiarism is very wrong, and copying entire paragraphs of another person and simply translating them from Spanish to Greek is a burdo plagiarism. I don't know if you should resign, I don't know. [[Applause]] But it's true that, in a country where the president is the first to plagiarize, it's very difficult to ask you for responsibilities. But, look, now, of plagiarism, at least do it well. Professor Arrojo, who is what inspires and what has helped him to copy and catch his intervention, when he defended everything you translated, he did it with a purpose, in a different context and in a region that has nothing to do with Galicia. For everyone to understand it, all that Mr. Cal said was written 20 years ago in Zaragoza and for the purpose of not building in Aragon 145 infrastructures — dams, pipes and pumps to be able to transcend more than 1,000 cubic hectometres of the Ebro basin along the Mediterranean coast. So, Mr. Cal, if you're going to plagiarize, at least make an adaptation to our community, take it as well at this time and don't make us go through this buzz. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because — believe me — when I found this gave me some shame. [[Applause]] So if all the argument made by the Podemos Group to justify its amendment to the whole is a plagiarism of the argument made by its group against the transvasion of the Ebro, it will allow me to doubt its rigor. But, look, I really want to point out two things that you said. He completely doesn't know about legislation and how the water regulations are structured and the purpose or purpose of the law we're talking about. Prevention measures are established in hydrological planning, they are established. What we are doing in this rule is to establish measures that regulate an exceptional situation that can happen even in spite of all the general rules and the adoption of the preventive measures laid down in it. Because I imagine that when these things happen, you will think — or I want you to believe it that way — that you have to guarantee the supply of citizenship, I understand that you think you have to do it. Well, that's what this law is about, not everything you mentioned. And on the subject of participation, look, you get confused again. It is not the same channel for participation in planning tools as in a legislative text. But, of course, you weren't referring to our law, but you were referring to the National Hydrological Plan, so the criticisms you were making to the mechanisms of participation were not to a law but to a hydrological plan. But, look, as the counselor reminded you, in February the text was published at the Galician Board Transparency Portal. Then there was a hearing process, and the text was sent to all the administrations involved — ministries, delegations, confederations, to the Fegamp, to different departments of the Union — and also to different groups, associations and trade union organizations. More than 50 entities received the text in the claim period so they could make their approaches, and among them they also agreed with the Fegamp — I do not understand why they deny it —. Here is, for example, the meeting that the councillor had with the president, and here is also another day that there was with all the representatives of the Fegamp where agreements were reached, where there were concrete contributions. And the advisor was receptive, listened to what the mayors told him and incorporated him into the text that we now have here. [[Mr. Trenor López shows some photos from the rostrum of speakers.]] After this process, the bill was passed at the Board of Trustees and entered the Chamber. And in the House, we still have all the parliamentary procedure in which you can make partial allegations. And I hope they make allegations adapted to this text and not claims they submitted to the National Hydrological Plan. Surely, if you do that, we will be able to talk and we will be able to accept or compromise some of your proposals. Mr Bará, with regard to the participation, look, your group accepts very few recommendations. I remind you of the theater you did in the Constitution Square when you wanted to make a parallel parliament that sought to retain legitimacy in this Parliament, because that's how you understand participation. When you and your friendly associations and your friends, then there's participation. When it turns out that it is Parliament, which is legitimate to pass the laws, which makes the decisions, you, who have six Members, believe that it is not listened to. [[Applause]] Look, you confuse a law for situations of extreme emergency with situations of normal supply, in which procedures must be completely different. It seems that you, moreover, are unaware of the hydrological planning figure, which is the maximum exponent of planning, which includes planning, sanitation and supply targets. This hydrological planning is in effect, it's in force, it's in continuous review because it has a schedule that's changing every six years. Different schedules are now being made which correspond to the next six years, while are currently running. But, look, before I continue, let me tell you it's not bad to be a little humble and prudent. And when you're a conchler, when you've been a conchler, as you have been, one of the most important municipalities to improve in everything, in everything, absolutely everything that affects water supply and sanitation, it's even more important. Look, water management in the Pontevedra Town Hall takes her to the Feast Hall. It's the only city in all of Galicia where debugging makes it the Board of Galicia, with the seriousness that, when the Board of Galicia assumed debugging because you were unable to do so, what was being charged for debugging — which logically when you no longer did, you wouldn't charge it — you went up to the rest of the tapes to collect exactly the same. With which, they lend less service but the citizen is charged the same as when they provide all the services. [[Applause]] Look, I was listening to him the other day boasting that two points were lowered by water loss. You've been ruling for twenty years, Mr. Bará, twenty years ruling in Pontevedra, and they've only dropped two points in twenty years. It's just that it's gonna take them two hundred more years to leave it without loss, two hundred more years! I don't think you're gonna do it. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] From your city's emergency plan, we're still waiting. I suppose you'll think you don't have to. I honestly think, apart from being useless, they're vague, vague, because it's incredible that a city like its own has these eves. Ah! not to mention the spills... because I remind you of the spills of the river Gafos, which you think by hiding them, by throwing some concrete on them, they won't get to the river.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u18	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u19	No, they're coming and there'll be complaints. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we have a law that is positive — I am glad that the Socialist Party recognises it. We are now starting the parliamentary process and I hope to be able to reach agreements. But for that too, what we have to do is adapt ourselves, get down to the ground and know what we're talking about here in Galicia, which is not what we need for Zaragoza. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u20	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. Replica of amending groups. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u21	Thank you again, President. Mr. Trenor, I agree that this law is necessary, we have said it from the beginning. We do not agree in the process of it or in the content of it. Why? Because we think we're going to miss a very good opportunity to guarantee an optimal water supply. We missed a very good opportunity to protect our water resources. I am grateful for Mr Trenor's name to refer to sanctions. "In this law we don't speak of sanctions," said the Counsellor. Mr. Trenor called them "dissuasive mechanism," or "dissuasive canon," but sanctions for the municipalities are collected. They call it by name, they don't invent new things that we all know what's going on. In 2012 a decree was issued that a regulation of the water canon and the greening coefficient was adopted in public wastewater purification systems. Even though the president of the Union himself, Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo, announced that the holders of private wells and betrays will be exempt and that the water canon will be excluded for agricultural purposes, it has been proved today that this is a lie. We're all paying, aren't we? So you can't say what then it won't be done. In this law that we are debating today we also find important omissions that should be very present, such as mining — the mining undermines the access of future generations to this resource — the extractive and transformational activity of geological resources, particularly metal mining, which also consumes large amounts of water and there is no record of any kind of gravel for this type of exploitation. The hydraulic fracture is an activity on water that is one of the greatest aggressions in soil and aquifer pollution, and no deterrent canon is envisaged. There are more cases but, in short, little is spoken of in this law of obligations or penalties to companies that carry on these activities and to municipalities — and in addition to deadlines. Water is a heritage of communities, peoples, humanity, and it's not a commodity. That's why from the Joint Parliamentary Group, from En Marea, we argue that water management must always remain in public and community space, and must be carried out with participation, equity and social control. Water can't be a business, we said it already in the previous shift, and the organizing principle must be cost recovery. It is necessary to impact the costs on the consumer — supplies, sanitation, etc. — but the collection must be intended solely and exclusively for that medium and not, as I said earlier, for them to be left unexecuted, I think one hundred million euros. I don't think we're so overwhelmed that we can afford that luxury. The Galician Union must modify the regulatory framework governing water and must design a new multi-annual sanitation plan that combines different technological solutions for the environmental care of the Greek rivers, which is worth seeing. We want a law that in its presentation speaks of a problem that exists throughout our country, which is that of climate change. We don't want a law that drowns the Town Councils any more. We want a law of prevention in terms of water and its cycle, we want a law that protects our rivers and our water resources. And we want a law that has participation. A photo of the lady councillor with the president of the Fegamp and another photo of the lady councillor with two of the people of the Fegamp -- so you called it -- I don't think it's enough. We want a law that's not institutional propaganda before elections. And, therefore, I am sorry, Counselor, but to the Mixed Group, to the Tide, this law is not worth it. And it's not worth it because it's a law that won't be useful for people or our environment. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u22	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u23	Look, this debate has shown that the hydraulic policy of the People's Party can be defined in two words: failure and fiasco. These are the words that characterize it. And that's why you're so undervalued in the surveys, in these surveys that you so much like your secretary-general, Mr Tellado, who suspends everything. Did you see the survey the other day on Sunday? Hang on to everything! They don't reach the 5th in any area of the Government. And by the way, the environment is one of the worst rated. [[Applause]] For something it will be. Also the industrial and social policy, the government's worst valued. So take note and apply, they still have a few months left. See if they improve the note, because there will be a final exam soon, Mr. Trenor, Mrs. Ethel Vázquez. Of course, you're very good at selling smoke. They sell bottled smoke through the Galician Television, through all channels. But, of course, smoke can be sold once, twice, three times, ten times... but the moment comes when the decoration falls, the envelope falls, the cosmetics. You don't just understand a question we told you here. Because you say that this law refers to situations of extreme emergency and that then there is the situation of normality. No, we question this frame, because between the extreme emergency and normality is the drought situation caused by climate change, which is what doesn't appear in this law and which you, in any case, analyzed in the drought plan, which is the year 2010. But we're not in 2010, we're in 2019 with a threat of climate change that's scary, as the study of the Sustainability Observatory said about the increase in temperatures in Galicia and the fall in precipitation on a 30-year horizon if no action is taken, if you don't change your policies. Because -- I told you -- what's in favour of climate change is its forest policy, its megaminary policy, its pollution policy of rivers and rivers, its forest policy of filling the mountains of eucalyptus or its waste policy, taking away the waste that is produced in homes all over Galicia to burn in Sogama to produce electricity. That is to promote climate change, when that waste, which is mostly 50% organic waste, must be treated in close proximity and recovered to make compounds and to recover our mountains. That's the policy that needs to be done, and you're going in the kamikaze car in the opposite direction. And, of course, it's all over now that you dare criticize Pontevedra. And I do not consent to you, Mr. Trenor, to speak with that contempt of the concierge who carries the water cycle in Pontevedra, which is chemical and which gives you a thousand turns in water policy and any policy. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You have been here in this Parliament. [[Murmurs.]] Don't look down on her, Mr. Trenor. [[Applause]] By the way, look... what's the matter, can't you be a concierge of parties? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Is that a demerit? You came here to mock that I was a concealer of parties. Well, yes, it's the feast conceler, the water cycle, the spokesperson for the BNG Group and a lot more, because it gives you much more than your political capacity. [[Strong murmurers.]] And if you come to criticize her here just when that congealer has just said that Pontevedra has 3.6% loss in the distribution of the water that is caught and the water that reaches the homes...! Or 3.6%! Twenty years! You've also been ruling for 40 years, but the previous 40s have not done so to improve the situation in our country. Twenty years, but twenty years, look, you at Galicia's circular economy plan suggest that by 2030 there are 20% losses on the network, and Pontevedra is 3.6% now in 2019. [[Applause]] You should throw rockets, congratulate Pontevedra and ask him how they do to do it in other places where you rule. [[Murmurs.]] And they come here to criticize, they still dare! And it's enough to tell me that the Galician Union is responsible for the purification of Pontevedra's waters because the government of Pontevedra didn't know how to do it. But, do you know when Galician waters of the debugger management of Pontevedra were entrusted to four municipalities? In the 1990s, when I ruled the People's Party at the Galician Union and the Pontevedra Town Hall! It was at that moment, but because it's a supramunicipal debugger. [[Applause]] Do you understand the concept of sub-sub-unicipal? Four municipalities that pour the water there, and we've already told them that The Pleasures can't be the funnel they put the shit out of four Towns.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u24	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u25	We do not accept that extension of the debugger, which is clear to you, Counselor. We don't accept it, we have to do more debuggers in the Pontevedra creek. You can't concentrate the shit on a single debugger at the bottom of Pontevedra's creek, because Pontevedra's creek has three debuggers, Vigo's has nine and Arousa's has eleven. This isn't acceptable. They have to do their job.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u26	Thank you, Mr Bará
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u27	I'm done...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u28	Your time is up, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u29	Thank you, Mr Bará. Political capacity is supposed to be all of us; otherwise, we were caught.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u30	No, everyone, everyone! We're going to leave him like this, all of us. For the Joint Left Group, Mr. Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u31	Thank you, President. First of all, I want to tell Mr. Trenor that he forgot about Ourense when he went over the cities that have problems with the supply. You deliberately forget this because you don't want to recognize that this is a structural problem, and the only thing that makes the law is to be able to attack the municipalities where they don't rule. When we talk about the municipalities, we also talk about Ourense, because he has the same problem. And then I'm sorry, Mr. Trenor. I'm gonna get him. I know you were very happy, and I'm glad that you're looking at Mr. Arrojo's work, I'm glad a lot, because it would be fantastic if you took them into account in your proposals. I'm glad you saw him. Of course, you saw the thread and said, "Ow!, I have part of this speech, I already have how to attack Mr. Cal and escape everything you can tell us in your speech; and so I get away from there. Well, I'm sorry, Mr. Trenor. Of course, our explanatory statement has many parts of Mr. Arrojo's work and theses because it was the person we advised ourselves to do this work. Of course, we have many parts of your theses because it's the person who advised us to do this job. You're still making fun of it. I don't know if you know... stop being ridiculous, Mr. Trenor. [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] I don't know if you know... [[Murmurs.]] He's talking. Can you talk while I speak? Can you talk while I speak?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u32	It is not a question of you recriminalizing to me now some of the debate. The debate is built by you. I can't go against a gentleman showing a paper.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u33	But ask him to shut up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u34	I can keep silence at a certain time, but don't blame me for the debate not going through the lane that you want. That's another story. [[Murmurs.]] Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u35	You'll have to do something. You'll have to call him in order. If you don't shut up, you'll have to call him in order, just like he does with us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u36	No, no. I didn't notice a noise here right now that I had bothered.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u37	Don't stop talking.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u38	But that's something else, sir, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u39	But that's something else!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u40	If they all talk to each other in a low tone! It's not my fault that the debate doesn't go the way you want, that's not my fault. You're building the debate better. It's not my fault, please! It's not my fault!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u41	Your responsibility...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u42	I'm right now, but I can't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u43	I'm not responsible for a gentleman showing a paper, that's free. You go to the subject, which I take care of mine.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u44	You do your job.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u45	You're on the subject. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please! All right. Silence! We continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u46	As I tell you, Mr. Arrojo is a person in our political space. He was a member of our political space, as you well know. He's the person with whom we advise on water issues and an international prominence in the conservation of the water cycle. We advise ourselves with him. That's the big difference, we advise ourselves with eminence in the conservation of the water cycle, and you're dealing with Rajoy's cousin. That's the fucking problem, and that's why we're in this situation. [[Applause]] Look, you make this bill with a very clear objective: to throw balloons out when we have a drought situation in some city; that is, the problem is with the municipality, when you have a huge and major responsibility for not meeting the conservation of the water cycle for many years, for decades. And if we do something, if we have to do something, whether it's a transvasion or a boost so that the construction-friendly companies too are enriched, even if it doesn't serve anything, even if it doesn't solve the problem; and, of course, don't touch the privatization model that so much money is giving to a few and that so many cases of corruption in which the People's Party is involved has given us all these years. This is reality, this is what has happened all these years. And you come here to tell us a story that no one believes. Look, the main problem with water is that we have less and less resources and that we have more and less contaminated water. That's the main problem and you don't focus on that problem in the bill. They go through this problem absolutely, they don't talk about the importance of preserving the native forest, preserving the turbulence, the riverheads, the sanitation of the rivers, ending with speculation and the constant greens that are damaging and destroying our water resources. He doesn't talk about the problems of the mountains, with the eucalyptus and the acacias that are consuming huge amounts of water resources. The counselor, perhaps, doesn't know because he advises himself with Rajoy's cousin. That's your problem. That's what Mr. Rajoy said, I don't say, Mr. Rajoy said. [[Murmurs.]] If you're ashamed of Mr. Rajoy, say here you're ashamed of Mr. Rajoy. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's it, that's it! [[Strong murmurers.]] If you are not ashamed of Mr. Rajoy, for he has advised his cousin of these issues, that there is no climate change. Well, that's the reality! [[Strong murmurers.]] They don't take the Water Framework Directive into account. Look, you guys are facing the problem of the drought emergency just like they do with the fires. They don't work prevention, they're all after the reaction to the problem and they're not solving the problem. The fires engulf the territory and the country will be in a dry state with its policies. Act now because we're talking about a very serious matter. We're talking about the future of life on this planet. And you're at risk. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u47	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Before we proceed to the vote, we will greet the students of the SEK-Atlantic College of Poio. They're 5th grade students. Welcome to Parliament, too, your teachers and escorts. Voting of the legislative text
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u48	And now if we proceed to the vote. Close the doors, please. We begin by voting on the amendments to the whole, the refund, of the draft law of measures to guarantee supply in droughts and in health risk situations. We begin by voting on the whole amendment, which is to be returned, tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group. Voting the amendment to the whole, return, G.P. Jointly, the draft law on supply assurance measures in drought and health risk situations. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 38; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u49	We are now voting on the amendment to the entire Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. Voting the amendment to the whole, return, G.P. the Galego Nationalist Block, the draft law on measures to guarantee supply in drought episodes and health risk situations. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 38; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u50	We are now voting on the amendment to the whole tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Group. Voting the amendment to the whole, return, G.P. of the Left Joint Group, the draft law on supply assurance measures in drought and health risk situations. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 38; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u51	Rejected, therefore, amendments to the whole, this bill continues its parliamentary process. Finished voting. Open the doors, please. Developmental modification of the plenary session
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u52	We continue with the agenda, and in this case with changes, which, as they are now going to be constant, I will no longer communicate them. They all have the script. G.P. motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, on the actions to be carried out in Galician Union for the continued improvement of the Greek education system
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u53	An amendment was tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group on the Left.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u54	To formulate the motion, Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Welcome to the students and teachers of this centre in Pontevedra, to which the President of Parliament referred earlier. Ladies and gentlemen, we understand that in a year's time there will be autonomous elections — if not earlier, on the basis of different electoral cabals that can be done by the President of the Board, who has the power to convene this process. In any case, this course 2019-2020 will be the last in which the current Administration of the Galician Board, and in particular the College of Education, University and Vocational Training, will have the responsibility to organize and dynamize the Greek educational system. The fact is that over the last three years — the three years of this legislation — we have attended a series of actions and initiatives by the Council that, theoretically justified in a supposed efficiency and that would be a model for the rest of the autonomous communities of the state, are in many cases true ideological decisions. First of all, we can cite as an example the refusal to recover the universal gratuitous program of textbooks, when we know — and the Government and the People's Party also know — that it would be the fairest, most economically efficient model and that it is also implementing in other autonomous communities governed by the People's Party when their government partners force them to implement this policy of universal gratuitousness, because of theirs let's say that it does not reign them. Tomorrow we'll talk more deeply about these matters with the debate of a non-law proposal. In any case, this Parliament rejected a non-law proposal already in December 2016 aimed at recovering this program of freeness. It was also denied the possibility of the distribution in the educational centres of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, both public and private, of any publication which called into question the equality of persons, and in particular those which questioned the policies of equality, treatment and non-discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. A non-law proposal was also rejected by this group in January 2017 — I will do two years. By the way, and not in the spirit of alarming society, this kind of action seems to come with a renewed thrust in the last few weeks of hand from some other political group represented in Congress — with representation in the dissolute Congress of Deputies, in Madrid. It was argued from that point of view that the centres had this ability to limit that kind of distribution of propaganda — at the worst of the perceptions of the term propaganda — when, of course, our parliamentary group understands that the Administration has an obligation to limit certain practices — "to limit", separate, not "delimit", to understand us well." In September 2017, a non-law proposal was also rejected for this parliamentary group to define itself, in a manner consistent with the educational community, with all the actors who are part of the educational community (fathers and mothers, teachers, students, municipalities), a network of centres, which must overcome the current framework, to effectively ensure equal opportunities for all the population of our autonomous community. It also denied the possibility, through a non-law proposal presented in 2019, by this group this year, to evaluate, with known criteria, any program, both for experimentation and for educational innovation, which are different things, but refused to put any evaluation mechanism into operation, some of them about the maximum that we are going to evaluate the program once it has finished its implementation. That is to say, in the specific case of the I Action Plan for Equality in Galicia's educational centres, 2016-2020, we will evaluate it by 2020, when the programme has already finished. By the way, for public knowledge, this parliamentary group has seen itself in the regrettable obligation to have to ask, in writing, for all of the measures envisaged by that programme — which are twenty-seven in particular — that have logically associated indicators of compliance, and the Council has given us the same answer to all questions, when one of the indicators is quantitative, when one is asked or evaluated, for example, how many centres have carried out a given action aimed at achieving a specific objective. I also have to remind or inform, more importantly — some of the parliamentarians and parliamentarians present already know, because I was in Commission 4a, that we have also seen the sad obligation to ask in committee the Director General of Education how many students have participated in a particular programme, in particular the Bachelor of Excellence, and I can tell them that there is a general director in parliament who is reading data and a parliamentarian or a member who writes in writing that data, because Junta refuses to provide that information in writing. This to me, which I'm already a certain age, goes back to those times when there were no photocopiers and we copied the utterances of the questions and then took the exam. [[Applause]] He also refused to recover the working conditions of the teachers, who have their schedules overloaded as a result of a theoretically dictated regulation to contain the public deficit. And the truth is, there are autonomous communities that are no longer applying those schedules, but that in Galicia still needs to be applied. And at this point, I'm going to be allowed to, as long as I'm not accused of making an ideological speech, refer me to this publication, which is data and figures of non-university education, edited by the Education Council and, therefore, I suppose that no one in the People's Parliamentary Group will deny me their rigor and validity, which shows that between 2008 and this one there are 1,274 teachers less in the Greek public system; on the other hand, there are 279 more teachers in concerted education in the same period; of course, this is the consequence that the public professor has increased his hours and, therefore, we need less and we can contain public spending there, while on the other side. [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez shows a document.]] Those are just some of the performances that have been performed. They also refuse to evaluate programs that are well-known for failure. We're talking about the PluriFP Star program, all these multilingualisms, which are in front of the "star", which turns them into stars, which, well, regulated the implementation of multilingual cycles in an absolutely failed way, because the number of formative cycles were twelve in the 2017-2018 course and for this, three courses later, there's going to be forty-four, when, of these forty-four, twenty-seven were already authorized the past course. The program of introduction to primary educational robotics was also implemented, with a wide range of advertising and alharacas. And the truth is that this program, in its first call, previews the incorporation of one hundred twenty new centers; in the next call, of a course, one hundred twenty, were selected one hundred twelve, and now previews twenty-five. The question is that this is evidence of a failed program more than the Education Council. And we also talk about our motion for work planning. We already know that the works are complicated, that the works, when they are performed, especially integral rehabilitation works of a large building, like school centers, are complicated. I believe that no parliamentary group would question whether there were any small unending actions at the beginning of a course always and when these unfinished actions did not cause any disturbance to the normal development of teaching, but rather a real danger to the student who is teaching in these centers. But, in any case, it seems that the Councillory is trying to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u56	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u57	...—if—to hide any trap at the beginning of the course, still forcing the start of classes in manifestly inaccurate conditions. So the content of the motion you know perfectly well, it consists of three points, and we expect, given its logic, from the point of view of improving the Greek educational system, which counts — I'm sure — with the unanimous approval by this House. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u58	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Joint Left Group, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u59	Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the subject Mr. Luis Álvarez is a matter that concerns us all and very much. We're talking about the education system. We, of course, will support this motion. We have a lot to say, but a little bit of time; therefore, I'm going first to focus on the amendment we propose. We, of course, fully agree that all innovation programs, experimental ones, are being evaluated. A week ago an important protocol was announced, which is of attention to diversity, specifically a protocol for high-capacity educational care for students. This goes into the educational needs line, up, down and in the middle. It's very important. We bring this because this protocol is going to be one of the Star Innovation projects of the Education Council. Why do I say Star Innovation Project? Because the counselor himself, on September 22, clearly said that the goal is that SEMGal grows exponentially and that within two or three years it reaches at least 100 centers. What is SEMGal? SEM is the name of the intervention model for students and high-capacity students, a unique model, a model from our rigid, closed point of view and, above all, clinical, but it's the star model of the Council. It must be borne in mind that, when we talk about such programs, there is a public service of attention. It's the guides, the guides, the ones that have to diagnose. But there are also external collaborators. Among the external partners we can talk about companies or experts, such as Latino and Asac, of which the current education advisor was president. [[Association of High Capacity]] We know that this model, the SEM model, is from Renzulli, an author that we studied psychopedagogy in universities and that has already made important contributions in the 1990s. However, there is a close, commercial, commercial relationship between these associations and Renzulli himself. We'll make a concrete inquiry into this program. We want it to be evaluated. That's why we hope that in the first part of the PSdeG exhibition they will accept this new program which will also be a star of the cement within the privatization line to which this advisor wants to lead all public education, scandalous privatization, very painful privatization and tremendous consequences, because one thing is there is that there is some external agent that collaborates and another that intends to pilot all teaching and attention to diversity. There are real attacks. The Chief Inspector of the Crown has just said he wants to delete PT and AL from the primary school catalogue. This is a real attack, ladies and gentlemen. There are thirty centres in Coruña with deficiencies in PT and AL. In case someone doesn't know what an PT or an AL is, PT is therapeutic pedagogy; they have to address the learning problems that students and students have; hearing and language, AL, hearing and language problems. But this same protocol that we have just done does not discriminate between special needs and specific educational needs of diagnosed children, which we have more children, who have more rights than anyone. Less excellence and more equanimity and more inclusiveness. These children have all those rights that are being maimed. We can name the Rosalía de Castro, San Pedro de Visma, CEIP Pardo Bazán, Salgado Torres, Alborada, Eusebio da Guarda, Valle-Inclán, Ramón de la Sagra, Curros Enríquez, Zalaeta, Wenceslao Fernández Flores, Fernández Latorre, López Seoane. Come on, thirty. All of these centers we're naming have deficiencies in AL and PT. This is a real indentation. There is no right, ladies and gentlemen of the PP. It's very good to advertise and advertise that we have the best teaching in the world; it's a lie. And what they're trying to do is to really pre-empt the service to privatize it. This is not receipt and we hope we have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u60	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u61	...a lot of time to report all these outrages to the educational community, not only of the Coruña, but of all Galicia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u63	Good morning. We will, of course, support this motion because, among other things, it proposes a number of items that should already be part of the educational planning of the Union: evaluation of programmes, recovery of the working conditions of the non-university professor after the cuts and planning of the realization of works in educational centres. The real concern is that we have to ask for this in Parliament. This also measures how our educational system is located, characterized — as the proposal has already explained — by the rupture of consensus, as can be the presence of the Greek in teaching — we will have an opportunity to speak in a GNP of these issues — or the book lending system. First of all, with regard to the programmes of experimentation and educational innovation, the point is what it seems — not to say anything else — to be a timid effect of these. It seems relevant to us the need to appeal to that legislate ending to assess them. We hope that it will actually be the last year in which this team of the Education Council actually manages these programmes and the so-called teaching in the autonomous community. Well, equality plan. We do not really understand — I think it has been explained enough here — how data from the evaluation of a plan are not drawn up when the document itself indicates that there is — literally — "a system of indicators by which the measures provided for in this plan will be followed up, which will enable us to assess the impact of its objectives and measures in order to indicate aspects in which it is necessary to achieve equal education". How is it not going to have to go doing an evaluation year by year in order to achieve the best results? It seems surreal to us. In addition, the plan itself comes up with quantifiable paintings on the different axes. It would be easy to have that data. We must not fail to point out that it is essential to deepen in this perspective of gender throughout the education system, and especially we want to mention here the affective-sexual education, in a context where the expressions of macho violence in youth are increased and also to increase ignorance about the risks of certain sexual practices and sexually transmitted infections. It is an essential element of that affective-sexual education. It's explained in the plan in some way. We thought it could be much more powerful, but it seems serious that this plan is not evaluated when there are paintings that make it perfectly measurable year by year. It's certainly incompatible with that co-education that promoted the plan because it keeps these school concerts that segregate by sex, opaque on the other hand. With regard to multilingualism, we see that there is a certain intention to present these multilingual programs not as a goal but as a method to further reduce the presence of Greek, because we understand only that lack of data, the lack of participation of these centers, or even robotics in primary, that incorporation of twenty-five centers, that timid advance—say shyly not to say another word—or the Bachelor of Excellence, with that data that you yourself have reached, I think it was in a press round, but I am not able to find them in the network in the resources of the Union; the shortage of few centers adhered to and delay in calls. As for the working conditions of the non-university teacher, we must also take into account that general reduction framework of the teacher, which, on the other hand, is an increase in that teacher's degree in concerted education. Eighteen hours of teaching in high school, twenty-one in early childhood and primary school, and job recovery would also involve the possibility of regaining more teaching jobs. Also the question of professors who have to impart subjects in which they are not specialists has also increased, and of course regaining all purchasing power. And finally, as to the planning of the works that affect school equipment to minimize the impact at the beginning of the course, this course was tremendous. It is true that works when they are fully involved, as you yourself have said, can lead to difficulties, but we live, especially in the province of Lugo, a start of a terrorist course, with changes in criteria by the Council itself. There's The Foundry, where first the Council said there was a solution, then there was another, or Cervo and Foz; by the way, that the works at Cervo began on July 22, July 22nd!; if this is planning... In the interpellation that gives rise to this motion, the counselor himself accused, or came to accuse the ANPAs of making almost fake news, saying that they disseminated images that were not of the day itself, when the people themselves, mothers and parents of students from that center, taught us how the center was that day itself. They deserved at least an apology from the Council.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u64	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u65	Finally, we are going to support the motion, which should already be part of the policies of the Galician Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u66	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u67	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. We are going to vote in favour of the motion presented by the Socialist Party today. I think it is quite difficult to oppose, Mr Álvarez, because he basically asks, above all what he has to do with the first point, that he should be as tall as — as has been said so many times in this House — subversive and Marxist-Leninist as a report on some of the measures that have centered on the education policy of the Government of the People's Party in the last ten years. I, simply, have some appreciations in relation to some of the points that are included in the resolution part of this motion. We are talking about the Equality Plan, the Plan for Measures to Promote Equality in Educational Centres, which is approved in 2016 and which is in force until next year 2020, and it is not just that this plan incorporates — let us say — a procedure for monitoring, monitoring and evaluating the degree of compliance with the measures envisaged by the Plan, that for twelve years in this country there has been a Law on the Comprehensive Prevention and Treatment of Male Violence, adopted — as everyone knows — unanimously in this House in 2007. In Article 22 of this Law on the prevention and treatment of all forms of violence, it provides that, on an annual basis, the Galicia School Council shall draw up a report on the degree of progress of co-education in public education centres in this country. We are asking for it in this legislation, as an active and passive one, in addition to the Commission — if I do not remember correctly — 1 as a non-legislative proposal for this report to be forwarded to this House, which, I insist, is of an annual nature and should be referred to the Parliament of Galicia from the year 2007 onwards. And he voted brazenly against it, frankly against it! [[Applause]] What's the situation? For we have virtually no idea what the reality is about the advancement of co-education in public schools, beyond that, as already pointed out, concerts are maintained with the centres that segregate the student by sex in the classroom, which goes against any minimum principle in the field of co-education. What we do know is that most public schools in this country do not have an approved equality plan, that in the vast majority of public centres in this country there are no comprehensive and cross-cutting teams, which have representation of the leadership and the guidance departments responsible for promoting and giving real and effective compliance to these measures, not only - I insist - in the Action Plan for Equality in Educational Centres but - I am very much aware - in the Law on the Prevention and Treatment of Male Violence, of 2007. It seems to us to be the minimum, the minimum, that such assessment report is submitted, that evaluation report of this programme. But I am already very afraid that we can predict that the results of the same will be excessively negative, among other things, because what cannot be said is that the policies of equality, co-education, prevention and comprehensive treatment of violence against men in this country depend on the public education centres of volunteering and the degree of individual commitment of certain persons who have — as is the case in some public schools in this country which are reference- an individual commitment to a particular person. He has to be equipped with personnel, human resources, material resources, but especially economic resources. [[Applause]] I was saying a well-known judge in this country in the field of violence that equality costs money, and it's actually real. We have to invest if we want things to change as well from the educational point of view. And another question that has to do with the second point of the motion: we agreed that a dialogue process with trade union organizations should be initiated to recover the stolen rights of the professor of this country. We've said it many times since BNG. This is closely related to the quality that is provided in our country's educational system, working conditions that are not unique and exclusively related to wage pay, but to the situation in which the teacher is found, which has to do with the return of school hours, eighteen and twenty-one hours, with the reduction of ratios, with which the repeater student is calculated in classes because he has specific needs of attention, or also regulating related subjects. This is what the majority union organization has been claiming, which is the IGC Education, for years, and for active and passive, in that sort of counsellor-bunker in which the People's Party is installed, and they don't even have the nerve to open an honest dialogue and above all a dialogue that recognizes that the teacher has to recover the stolen rights in recent years. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u69	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Mr Álvarez, the sudden interest in assessing the Socialist Party and the follow-up of the other groups of this House. Because we are also in favour of evaluating, we are and repeatedly express that we are in favour of evaluating. And, as you said, there will soon be autonomous elections — a year or so — and then we will be evaluated by the Greeks and the Greeks, and the Greeks and the Greeks will evaluate, and they will evaluate and prefer the People's Group. I'm sorry, Mr. Álvarez, but it is. [[Applause]] You complained about the interpellation, and today, when, repeatedly from the majority group, policies with ideological burden are rejected, as you recognized, the initiatives brought by the Socialist Party or the rest of the groups, and of course we have to reject them because the Greeks and the Greeks give confidence to the People's Party in Galicia. That means that the education policies that the Galician People's Party is setting up in our autonomous community are those that prefer the Greeks and the Greeks. And today you bring here a motion made of clippings, of issues already dealt with, as you also recognized. I don't know if you're already doing a recapitulation of your step through the House, or you're making a password to flush your new absent spokesman. These are questions about those who know the answers, they know all the answers. And in addition, the worst thing is that you know them in a technical way, because it's the most technical of all of us here on these issues. You're better than nobody can evaluate the work of the Council, but you prefer politicizing, and you ask for a plan to evaluate the plans. I can't imagine what his response would be in this rostrum, and those of the members of the opposition, if the People's Party had asked for a PNL, a plan to evaluate the plans, because the plans, as has already been said here, also carry follow-up indicators and hence an intrinsic assessment. You know that the Council, before implementing any plan, does pilot projects; you know that there are measures that adapt to the reality of schools and to the reality of school courses; you know that the implementation of any plan and program is done in a progressive manner, which implies a follow-up of evolution to introduce improvements when needed, for example, in the Equality Plan, which has already been discussed in this House; and you also know that you have to wait at the end of the cycle to have an idea -- say -- from a perspective. Mrs. Verao, perhaps you don't find data on the STEMbach, but if you look at the Official Journal of Galicia today, there's clearly that shyness -- the incidence of the centers that are targeting the Bachelors of Science and Technology. And you know, Mr. Álvarez, that in this process the involvement of the centers and the management team of teachers is fundamental. Because participation is voluntary, not only requires centres, fosters their involvement, and facilitates tools, counselling, equipment, etc., so they can implement any plan and program that is developed from the Council. Or are you asking the Council to evaluate the behaviour of Galician educational centres with regard to plans and programs designed by the Government of Galicia? Or are you suggesting that the Council should limit the autonomy of the centres? Because during the interrogation the other day he said it, and today too. With regard to the second point of your motion, I am not going to repeat the debate we've had here in May, where you asked for the same thing as you ask now, but if I'm going to have two questions. The first is that the current and laboral conditions of non-university teaching staff are, in fact, the result of an adjustment, but of an adjustment to a decision made by the Bipartite, a technical adjustment made in 2011; and then an adjustment derived, in fact, from the application of the Royal Decree on Budget Stability of the year 2012. And in those conditions, as it is now said, it actually affects the teacher/student ratio. In data from the Ministry itself, we are the autonomous community with a lower proportion of teacher/student ratio. Or the interim rate, where we're also the community that has the lowest rate. Because since 2009 there has been OPE to teaching bodies, driven by the Government of the People's Party. The second question I wanted to point out with regard to the professor is that it is true that the teaching bodies made a great effort at the time of the crisis, a great effort because they were one of the main recipients of that salary cut of 5% of Mr Zapatero; we must remember that. But it is also true that it was the Government of the People's Party that has undertaken to gradually recover wages and has agreed with the unions better wages, that they have just started a year ago and that they will continue until 2021, because yes, Mr. Álvarez, we are talking about doing. You cannot put on the table the recovery of teachers' schedules without reference to the commitment of Mr. Sánchez, that president of the government in functions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u70	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u71	...which has not worked since it arrived in Moncloa, who has said that the General Administration of the State would establish an adequate and sufficient funding framework for this purpose. But in the matter of funding, Mr Sánchez is neither expected nor expected. On the centers and the theme of planning, it's obvious that everything can be improved, but I think it was the secretary-general who answered questions about this matter just a couple of days ago. Finally, Mr. Álvarez, welcome to the assessments. I hope that, as a representative of the Socialist Group, you will move that government into functions, if it ever becomes really a government, the importance of the evaluations of the education system, such as those provided for in the LOMCE and those that you have consistently denied. Turns out that Galician indicators and evaluations indicate that we have a healthy educational system and that we will continue to work in this direction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio Vilasánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u73	...we will continue to work in this direction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio Vilasánchez. Author of the motion, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me begin by thanking the support of this motion from the other three opposition groups. In particular, with regard to Mrs Cuña's intervention, yes, we will admit her amendment. That I believe that protocol will give a lot to talk about, probably marked as an ideological problem on the part of some part of this House, but I think it will, of course, give you. Thanks also to the Joint Group and that explicit reference to those indicators that foresee the plan itself, which are not so difficult to quantify, unless there is a clear will not to quantify them. In that case any valuation becomes impossible when you don't want to do things. There's that phrase that if I danced badly, all the shoes would tighten it; that's what's going on with these initiatives. Thank you, too, for your support to the Galician Nationalist Block. And, Mrs. Antonio, this is what you have now said that we have a sudden interest in evaluating let me tell you that it is almost equally surprising that you are now suddenly concerned about something like climate change, that we are discussing extensively at the beginning of this plenary; that is, there are jokes, that I am not going to quote because they may even be of a bad taste, about the sudden interest in situations. What you say about the policy of evaluation, look, I don't think they've advised you very well, because diagnostic evaluations were in an organic law of education approved by a socialist government a lot of years ago. So I think you should check your sources or at least select others with higher information accuracy. [[Applause]] I didn't say at any time that you recognize ideological burden on our initiatives. No, no, no. I said we were accused, even when we gave data even published by the Galician Council itself, of making an ideological assessment. And, look, ever since different numbering systems were invented throughout history, even elementary operations with numbers, that's hardly attributable to ideological valuation. The numbers are numbers. Even — I repeat — are the official data itself. And you say we prefer to politicize. Where are we? At a neighborhood community meeting? What's this? This is the Galician Parliament, and it should therefore be assumed that we have come here to make politics and therefore indirectly politicize. But I refer to the words of Mr. President of this House, Mr. Santalices, when he said what political capacity we were supposed to all; Santalices said, just over an hour and a half ago. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u76	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u77	And you say — Mr President, how are we not going to limit certain aspects of the autonomy of the centres? Are you an ally to the debate that exists about the alleged indoctrination in school? Are you a parent's chip defender? Do you know how easy it would be to make a joke here about some mammals carrying chips to locate them? You want a parental chip...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u78	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u79	...for parents to authorize centers to do certain things or not? Is that the model you want?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u80	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u81	I really don't think so. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u82	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. We shall proceed to the vote on the motion. Close the doors, please. Amendment by the Joint Parliamentary Group on the Left is accepted. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Don Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, on the performances that must be carried out in Galician Union for the continued improvement of the Greek education system. We vote. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u83	Open the doors, please. The vote was closed. Agenda item 4, non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members, on the Plan of Standardization of the Greek Language in Youth and the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece in the field of linguistic policy among the children's population
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u84	There is an amendment by the Joint Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u85	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u86	Thank you, President. Good day again. We knew — and I am absolutely convinced that all of your lords know her recently — the latest survey of the knowledge and use of the Greek carried out by the Galego Institute of Statistics, corresponding to 2018. The results show a reality that is maintained over time with few changes regarding the last survey published in 2013, but that draws a negative trend that remains over time since the Galego Institute of Statistics began to carry out this study in 2003. One of the most alarming data of these results published by the IGE is that one in four under 15 years of age can't speak English — today, eh!, in 2018 — and 30% can't write in this language — in 2018. Congratulations to those who have been doing the apologizing of ignorance for years, because there are the results. [[Applause]] Of course, you don't talk about what you don't know. They usually or mostly use the country's own language only 26% of people between the ages of 5 and 14, ten points less than a decade ago than the 2008 survey. Do you know what percentage was the usual use of the Welsh language among young people under the age of 14 when the IGE published the first survey in 2003? We must remember that this Parliament was debating the general plan for the standardization of the Greek language. Do you know what the percentage was in 2003? Forty percent, fifteen points more than today. In other words, seven out of ten under 15 in this country have Spanish as their usual and majority language, almost exclusively. And that was already the case in 2013. There's no need for too long-term analyses to see that we're in the face of a language substitution process, of what we've been talking about in the last decades, which is progressing over time, and -- the worst -- it seems to be moving forward in applause. However, the Greek still resists as a majority language. 52% of the population uses it always or to a greater extent, almost the same figure as it was five years ago, but ten points less than in 2003. It does, yes, but it does, thanks to the population over 50 years old, which today represents about 80% of the people who speak the language of this country every day; over 50, who live mainly in rural or semi-urban areas; we also know what the demographic trend is exactly in these geographic areas. It's amazing to see the fall and the loss of speakers in the seven cities of this country, and, just like a parenthesis, the most enduring is Place. Greek is still a majority in the spoken language but not in the written language. If we look at the data on the language used by the population of this country when you write, we'll see that only 17% of the population of Galicia usually writes in English, regardless of the language they speak orally. Almost 64% of the people who always speak in English change Spanish in writing, 64% change language as soon as they take a pen, or now we can say a keyboard. And this scenario -- we insist -- reflects few changes when compared to the 2013 survey, but it has been a negative trend for 15 years that should make any government reflect, any with a minimum of responsibility and sense of shame. Then, of course, we have Galician Union. And the board decided to leave euphoric, euphoric, we were amazed. They will remember that, in addition, he was already doing us a little promotion the day before the President of Galician Union, agreeing with the debate of the state of the nation, which told us that wonderful, very positive results would come. The Euphoric Galician Union — I insist — came out, squeezing ridicule or insult to the collective intelligence of this country. He grew to almost eight points in ten years. Look, uh!, nearly eight points have grown in ten years the number of children under 15 who don't know how to speak the language of this country, in a context — you have to remember — in what teaching is supposed to guarantee linguistic skills in English for the whole population — we are not talking about the sixties, but about 2018. But Junta says the band is still playing — they look like the Titanic. Do you imagine what the reaction would really be, can your lordships imagine what the reaction would be if a public official institute said that one in four under 15 in this country can't speak Spanish and 30% of those under 15 can't write it? I'm telling you, Troy's burning, Troy's burning! But it seems that when we talk about the Greek, the measuring rods are different. I was saying these days the president of the Academy, Mr. Freixanes, that everyone can read the figures according to their own convenience but that the data are what they are. What's going on in teaching this country if children and children who have an initial and familiar language change as soon as they enter school? Others don't even have contact with the English language at home, 93% of those under 15 learn it — if they do — at school. But far from fulfilling its normalizing function, the teaching of this country has become -- and this is a literal expression of the Royal Galician Academy -- "in a disqualifying agent," as the Academy, the Council of Europe or the Bureau warned by linguistic normalization. The Council of Europe, in its last report on the fulfilment of the European Charter of Minorised Languages, says that it will be renewed no later than next year: Decree 79/2010 limits the teaching of Greek to a maximum of 50% with the ultimate aim of ending it by reducing it to one third. And this is a clear contradiction to the commitments made by the authorities within the framework of the Charter, which calls for education predominantly in Greek. And it underscores the failure to meet the goals of primary and secondary childhood education, which is what we focus on our non-legislative proposal. We emphasize from BNG in the data corresponding to that age range, to children between 5 and 14 years of age, because this is the age group representing the language policy developed by the Galician Union in the last decade, theirs. An age group that knows and uses less Greek than the previous generation, in which the increase of people besides monolinguals in Spanish rose spectacularly in these ten years, going from 30% to more than 44%, a much higher rate than in previous stages, but an age range over which Galicia's board decided to decline and not act. As you know, the Youth Standardization Plan, which has appeared timidly late in this House, only provides for measures for the population of 15 to 30 years, not before — it is not going to turn the trend. For the Galego Nationalist Block, the triumphalism of the Union is the only evidence that the People's Party sees in the current panorama drawn by the IGE in its successive surveys exactly what it wanted — because, if not, it does not understand itself — and the objectives sought precisely with this decree of the year 2010. We insist: 24% of 15-year-olds don't know how to speak German, eight points more than before the decree came into force, eight points more in ten years. We are bringing here today an initiative not from the Block but from the linguistic consensus we have in this House in its literality in 2004 and collected in the General Plan of Linguistic Standardization, a plan that foresees the measures we have incorporated into the resolution part of this non-law proposal when the knowledge and use of the language of this country itself in youth was much greater than the current one, but which have been obscenely unmet since 2010. Linguistic policy — and with this ending, President — in Galicia must recover the broad and generous agreement, now absolutely minimal, which represents this general plan for the normalization of the Greek language, or, as the IGE points out, we will continue to collectively pay the consequences. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u87	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. You have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u88	Well, by appealing to this last, Mrs.Anton had previously been told that the Greeks and the Greeks had given them confidence, but, of course, they were not given it to fully violate the laws and the linguistic consensus to which this House came unanimously; they were not given it for that. And also one of the problems - and it has already been pointed out here - about the Greek of this country is that we start from a total negationism of the Government with regard to negative data on the evolution of the use of the language. It's just that we don't tell the opposition, we don't tell the nationalists, but I told him by the Galaga Culture Council itself or the Galaga Royal Academy all the time. The reality is that since 1992, when there's a first reliable study, it's back in a solid and unstoppable way. We can continue to affirm with the new data from the IGE that the country ages, and who else do it is the ones and the speakers of the Greek. This was what the Royal Galaga Academy warned of, not the breakdown of intergenerational transmission of the language. New data confirms that this trend continues. The younger generations, between 5 and 20 years of age, tend to monolinguization in Spanish. New IGE data only confirms this. That's why we can't understand the triumphalism of the president and the cultural adviser in this report, this structural survey, the homes with this module on the uses of Greek, which, by continuing to sink into the data that I have already exposed the proponent, points out that -- these are the 2018 data, which can already be compared with those of 2013, of 2003 -- if you reduce the percentage of people who say they can speak a lot in Greek at 10 points; and from 5 to 14 years there are 20 percentage points less people who know how to speak a lot or something in Greek at this age. But it's also increasing those who say little or nothing -- we're not even talking about, but understanding -- from 5.7% in 2003 to 10.21% in this age line in 2018. It has already been said here that 23%, almost 24%, don't know how to speak, and 30.04% say they can't write in English. A fraught failure of the policies that the Union is forced to promote by virtue of those laws that we have reached by consensus and by the Linguistic Standardization Plan. A linguistic catastrophe is what it is, even if they don't want to recognize it. There's no need to sink into more data, we could talk about the usual language and how it's going back, but we want to highlight that territorial issue that has already been pointed out here. If we take into account the territorial distribution of linguistic uses - and we see well on the map that the 2018 IGE study itself comes near - we can see an obvious parallelism between the process of territorial collapse - which we call it - and the loss of language. There is a great territorial imbalance, and the language resists, yes, but in municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants. If you see the distribution of speakers by context, it is tremendous what happens in the urban environment. Well, what does Together do to this reality? It has already been exposed: to present a plan for the dynamization of the Welsh language in youth that excludes children, people under 14 years of age, which is where the language is most lost. It leaves out childhood, which is where it is evidenced that the so-called "decree or decree of bilingualism" is creating an illiteracy in the language itself. This plan, precisely, is a sin of total incretion and poverty in measures, especially in the educational field: programming of information and awareness-raising activities, agreements with ANPAs and associations, leisure spaces or specific actions that are not marked in contexts of castelanphalants. We believe that it is necessary to go to the root, that it must be concrete, and to realize it is only to focus on the measures already established by the Linguistic Standardization Plan, because we want to remember that this plan - approved unanimously in the House in 2004, to quote some subjects in which there was consensus on language empowerment in school - provides that progressive use of Greek will be promoted from the pre-school stage of 0-3 years, which will guarantee a supply of quality teaching materials on various materials that will attract the learning process or work on family socialization projects. Therefore, in our amendments we add questions such as promoting the publishing of educational and playful material in the Welsh language and promoting that the Union itself should acquire itself from child care centres and from Galicia's own public libraries network, or promoting projects for family education and socialization of children in Galicia and supporting existing initiatives, such as the Apego Project. On the contrary, Joina is giving in these boxes Welcome with audiovisual material in Spanish. So, we're in favour of this...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u89	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u90	...proposal not of law. We hope that it will be more successful than one that we present, I think it was last year, that it also deepened in that need to promote Greek in teaching, and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u91	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u92	...that does not end with the falsified arguments of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u93	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez. You have the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The data to which Mrs Rodil has just referred, which, in fact, has not changed substantially since 2013, are not worrying - the truth is that you exaggerate, they are not worrying - they are catastrophic, they are catastrophic! They are catastrophic data, although I am quite sure that within the arguments that we will hear in the debate of this non-legislative proposal, it will certainly appear that the Greek is the language that most understand proportionally the population; that is, we will conform to one of the four skills related to the domination of a language, we will comply with... you said: especially considering the population segment that keeps that percentage. But, look, in the regulation that was adopted in 2007 and which was repealed by satisfying a certain collective - which had nothing ideological, of course not, that collective, no; what we say to the opposition groups, yes - was already established all that refers to the development of the language project of the centers. And, of course, it is their responsibility — yes, because it is part of the autonomy of the centres — to develop this linguistic project. That is to say, in that linguistic project, the areas that should be used in those areas that were not determined within the decree itself should be given either in English or Spanish, those support and reinforcement measures for the use of school language education to achieve the objective set out in the Language Standardization Act to which you referred and referred at your initiative and also — it is necessary to say — what was established in the Organic Law on Education in which it affected the promotion of multilingualism. Although someone who preceded me referred to multilingualism, we should not have any kind of repair in the acquisition of a foreign language by our student; not only not only not to have noticed, but to tend to that goal. And the criteria for determining the predominant language were also set in the outline. And here you will allow me, Mrs. Rodil, to refer to a companion of yours, Mr. Bará Torres, in his capacity as a professor of the Greek language. The language teacher, both English and Spanish, quickly identifies what is the predominant language in the context in which one center is located, one and the other. And, therefore, there was no need for that consultation which later turned out to be illegal, fortunately, about: in which language do you want your child to receive the teaching in childhood education? I mean, there was a consensus scenario that broke, and we all know why it broke. So with regard to your initiative, of course, the second point is what was already established in this bad Decree 124 of the year 2007, because what was established for primary education, secondary education, Bachelor's degree and training cycles was strictly -- and so you reproduce it on your initiative -- what was in the general plan of normalization of the Greek language that was unanimously approved in this Parliament in 2004. So our amendment is geared towards recovering that context that existed of consensus, because there was it, even within the People's Party itself until it arrived, yes, the moment that we were called to vote and therefore had to go for all. But that consensus also covered the People's Party, although they don't like it to be remembered. We believe it is necessary that before the end of this session, the necessary bases and lines of collaboration be established so that by the beginning of the 2020-2021 course we will have a new decree establishing the role of the Greek language in the education system, in accordance with the consensus line initiated in that General Plan for Standardization of the Greek language which was also adopted in that decree. In any case, we are given some doubts as to what you are thinking about children's education, because we also believe that what was referred to at this educational stage was sufficiently enhanced, sufficiently clear in this decree, when it was said that the teacher would use the predominant mother tongue among the students, and in addition it even foresees that in those Spanish-speaking surroundings half of the children's education schedule had been carried out in the Greek language. So, in that sense, our amendment goes. We are confident that we will reach an agreement with you so that this initiative will come out because I am also quite sure - in the security and hope that characterizes me -...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u95	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u96	...that the People's Party will also vote in favour of this non-law proposal, as you did in the previous motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u98	Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u99	The Joint Left Group has the floor to Mrs. Cuña Bóveda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u100	If the People's Party were to reflect, I would probably vote in favour, but not... I'm sure it will, too, vote in favour. Let's see, we've been saying throughout this legislation since our group that it's essential to make transformations, changes -- they are radical changes in the policy of the People's Party as regards the question of language -- and also calling for a return to the consensus of the Global Plan of Linguistic Standardization, so we're going to support the non-law proposal that brings about the Nationalist Block of Wales, because we think this will be a preliminary step towards a new plan adapted to the socio-linguistic reality that centres live today. We believe, as well, that it is a priority for children to have their possibility of socialization in the English language by means of the most appropriate teaching plans to ensure the full knowledge of our language. This isn't a wish, it's not an arrela, it's a right; we talk about rights. So, that's why we support the derogation from Decree 79/2010. We have long claimed this need to design educational proposals that promote use in all areas, without discrimination of any kind. The PP is responsible for the decline in the use of our language, because the impact of the decree - also called "decretacy" - was very negative, it was a plan that was not clear, a plan that was not significant, that was not shared, that was not identity. And as it's well named here and it's logical -- because not only do we talk, spoke to the Royal Academy, spoke to the Council of Culture, spoke to the European institutions -- the Greek has to be on an equal footing with the Spanish, and we're far away. We're far from the fact that the competition of the student in German is similar to that of the student in Spanish. In addition, the implementation of the decree in multilingual centres resulted in the exclusion and marginalization of our language as a vehicle language, without further progressing in the knowledge of foreign languages or betting on inclusive plurilingualism. What our legal framework picks up, we all know, and there are two fully official languages. This requires a preferential presence in the non-university educational system. He told the Royal Gallega Academy that with the introduction of the trilingual model, the proportion of the Greek was reduced in primary and secondary education. This is obvious. He also spoke of the Royal Academy of three important elements: deruralization, tertiarization and aging. Deruralization, tertiarization and aging are three key elements to explain this evolution, but rather the pressure of the educational system and also of the media. And it wasn't only the Royal Academy that expressed itself in this sense. It was also said that this process could be reversed with action. So if the PP was intelligent, effective and maintained in time simply compliance with the law, you could not only cool this trend but reverse the backwardness of our language, which is greatly reduced. The degradation is obvious, and there have also been hostile actions that have left a clear effect on the number of speakers. All the people who preceded me in the interventions made an allusion to the data. Of course, it's been eight days since the structural survey data came out of homes on the knowledge and use of the Greek developed by the IGE. Of course, the effect is very prejudicial, the effect is demolition, the effect is not only worrying, but highly alarming. So, we believe that the proposal to integrate into the levels of education, in primary, in secondary and in vocational training, is vital to reverse this trend. Data has already been given, and it has already been told how much the geographic level was. Really, it resists, and it resists in different areas...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u101	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u102	... - yes -. The most widely used areas, apart from Lugo, which have already been mentioned, are the Costa da Morte and Melide...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u103	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u104	On the contrary is Vigo. Let's reverse and support this non-law proposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u105	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Galicia is a territory, a community, a bilingual historical nationality, in which languages are not a problem, as we want to see the Galician Nationalist Block, but they are a wealth; ultimately, a cultural heritage that we must care for day by day. It seems that today he has touched upon the exemption from the decree for multilingualism in Galicia's non-university teaching. Look, ladies and gentlemen, is it because it hasn't been prepared by you and you're still having positive results? Is that why, Mrs. Rodil? I'm going to knock you down by the kid and focus on three fundamental questions to answer your non-law proposition, and you can understand how the decree has achieved positive results, by braking, yes, monolinguism. Look, first question, you talked about the survey on numerous occasions, always referring to the year 2003. But look, the IGE also did a poll in 2013. You named it that way, from the refion. Maybe they've improved the data, and you don't want to count them, that's it. Look, in the survey you're referring to, if we analyze the people who speak English from 15 to 29 years old, we find ourselves at 60.27 % of the year 2013 and at 63.01 % in 2018, a three-point increase, Mrs. Rodil. And, look, if we stop to think a little bit and talk about those who talk little or nothing, we go from 11.83% in 2013 to 9.84% in 2018. I think it's a two-point decrease. And besides, to be more accurate, look, the age line we're talking about are the beneficiaries of the 79/2010 Decree that you both hate, because by that time those boys were in the 5-14-year-old line. The second question they're dealing with, and it's also surprising, because they gave me data that I really... is that they should re-examine the survey. There is obviously an increase in written skills, from 83.32 % in 2013 to 86.79 % in 2018, an increase of more than four points. And here's the important role that the Government is playing, thanks to the work that has been carried out over the last few years. I give more data, ladies and gentlemen: the percentage of population that says I understand much or enough the pinkish or over 90%: The Coruña, 90.56%; Place, 92.72%; Ourense, 89.53%; Pontevedra, 91.91%. Yes, Mrs. Rodil, you don't like it, but you'll much less like what I'm going to give you now: the number of people who usually speak more Greek than Spanish is increased. In 2013, 50.90%; in 2018, 51.88%. I know you won't like it, but, of course... Third question. I had the opportunity in his hand, of so much consensus that he wants to give us to the People's Parliamentary Group. A non-legislative proposal was recently debated in this House to develop a language dynamisation plan in youth, and you voted against it. That's the consensus you want to give. Look, it was a plan that you criticized up to satiety in the commission; a participatory plan, a government plan, which covered all areas of government, and, as it does not, a social plan, with a great vocation of participation and of reaching the highest consensus when it comes to cultural heritage, which is our language. A plan with nine areas, with 19 objectives, Mrs Rodil, and, as otherwise, with 39 measures that reached intergenerational transmission and the family environment, up to incorporation into the labour market and training continues, and, as not, economically endowed, that you always forget when the Union and the Government of Galicia places 16.5 million euros for these items. [[Applause]] Look, now I understand why you didn't want to talk about the year 2013, now I understand perfectly why you want to override the decree and now I also understand why you don't want to talk about the Plan for the dynamization of the Greek language in youth 2019-2022. The People's Group will continue to support as important measures as the ones I have just appointed, but, ladies and gentlemen, it does not contain with us to confront the cultural heritage of the Greeks and the Greeks. And, Mrs. Rodil, in the face of impoverished monolinguism, it will always be cordial bilingualism, yes. Look — and I am finished, Mr President — let the Greeks decide; they decide how, where and when they want to speak German, because for this it is set out in the Statute of Self-Government. [[Applause]] For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Rodil Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u108	Thank you, President. Not as predictable as it is less bochurnous. Look, do you know what the law says in this country? [[Applause]] That's an obligation -- that's not something you can choose, that's not something you can choose from depending on the political color of a government --
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u109	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u110	...from Galician Union to ensure that any child, when he leaves public education in this country, has the same skills in Greek as in Spanish. [[Applause]] One in four under 15 can't speak German. What bilingualism is he talking about? What bilingualism is he talking about? [[Applause]] Let's think about it from another perspective. We try to look for a study - which has some kind of rigor; of course, it comes from an official source, as is the Galego Institute of Statistics -, a single official study that collects the contrary reality. We're trying to find a person in this country who can't write in Spanish or who can't speak in Spanish. You won't find that reality. You won't find that reality, because you know who's really bilingual? The population of this country. That is where bilingualism resides, Mrs People's Party's Member. Come here and get me... it's hard, I say it's because in 2013, when the data came out of 2013, they scrambled everything they could to try to find some positive data to hold on to. So when it comes out of 2018, and there's a rebound of 0.8%, because all you see is just that. I was saying at the beginning of my intervention, picking up the words of the president of the Royal Galaga Academy -- what I thought they would have at least respect, or consideration, more than anything because he presides over an institution that is affidavitary in this country and that is a representative of the language -- I think I heard it with a little respect, I don't know. [[Mr Vázquez Domínguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] I'd ask for the minimum. I was saying at the beginning of my intervention, referring to Mr. Freixane's words, which, in fact, everyone can read the figures according to his own convenience, but the data are the ones that are. We have made an assessment of what is the reality that we live in this country in terms of the uses and knowledge of the Greek language since 2003, which is when we have official dates and figures. What can't be, is that the Government, which is the most responsible for the process of linguistic normalization in this country, denies and waives its obligations, which are collected in the Statute of Self-Government, in the Law of linguistic normalization...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u111	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u112	...and what we're going to vote on now, in the General Standardization Plan. We're not going to accept the amendments on a clear question...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u113	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u114	We agree that it is simply a question: what we want is to vote, whether you are in favour of or against the linguistic consensus that was here in this House in 2004, either in favour of or against fulfilling the general plan for the standardization of the Greek language.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u115	Thank you. Let's move on to the next initiative. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Mixto, at the initiative of Mr. David Rodríguez Estévez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the management of jurors and wastes from the intensive livestock holdings that are being carried out in the region of Limia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u116	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u117	Mr. Rodríguez Estévez has the floor to make the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u118	Thank you, President. In the region of the Limia, when agriculture and traditional livestock are disappearing and moving towards an intensive model, the waters of the river Limia are becoming increasingly contaminated. Today this region is bearing a gainful burden equivalent to a population of 1,600,000 people, who produce more than one million tons of waste, who end up being deposited in the open air and without any kind of clearance, without any kind of treatment, without any precautions or any kind of protection. The territory of the Limia is suffering from severe aggression by the management that is currently being done from the waste from intensive livestock farms, and more particularly from those devoted to the production of pigs and poultry. Although Article 2 of Law 22/2011, of 28 July, of solid waste and contaminated soils, excludes, in accordance with paragraph (e) faecal materials, straw and other non-hazardous natural material used in agricultural or livestock processes by means of procedures or methods that do not endanger human health or cause damage to the environment, it does not at all cover practices that are being used generally when applying in the boundary region these juries, which are liable to irreparable damage to the environment and which are also liable for irreparable damage to human health: eutrophy process imposed on the coronation of the Cunches; constant increase in levels of nitrate concentration in groundwater; irreversible damage to the coronation of Faramontos, not being able to water at present for supply; impoverishment of biodiversity; constant soil degradation of the air; bad quality of the air; constant. Article 3 of Law 10/2008 of 3 November provides that waste produced in agricultural and livestock holdings consisting of faeces and other natural and non-hazardous substances shall remain outside their scope when used in agricultural holdings. This exclusion does not cover uncontrolled interest applications that take place for long periods on extensive areas of killing, coughing and gesture, which, under the excuse of a supposed subscriber, pursue no more end than to disengage themselves from the excessive interest motivated by saturate the comarca of an irrational gain load. Likewise, they are also left out of control and look to the other side in the minimum conditions that must store the tanks of outdoor dung, especially that of the chickens, which are observed during winter and spring in many plots and fields of cultivation and which can obviously lead to episodes of contamination. Not long ago, on July 4th last year, an association of the Limia, "Clean Water Xa", they commissioned a study of the Hydrographic Confederation, which opposed the deployment of a large number of farms in the Limia area, especially pig cattle and poultry, the possible existence of inadequate practices in the management of waste and by-products generated in them, in addition to the fact that a large part of the territory of the region has an agricultural use, united to the Limia plain, in the months of winter and spring causes it to be flooded in periods of high rain. This causes the waters collected in this river to flow into the Conchas reservoir, accumulating cyanobacteria and eutrophication processes. We recently saw the Coren Group echoing a press release, presenting to the Limit Bureau its Environmental Action Plan for the sustainable development of the region. In this statement they stated textually: "Coren pointed out in the meeting that there is no report that shows that the situation of the Conchas reservoir is due to alleged bad practices with the use of livestock waste. The proliferation of cyanobacteria is recorded every summer in many other reservoirs with low water level and poor sewage purification system in the urban network." The Galician Natural History Society brings us scientific evidence. It's been five years since this association sent to the Min-Sil Hydrographic Confederation, and to the General Directorate of the Magram Water the statistical and demographic analysis of the gain burden carried out by the Galician Natural History Society, based on a study by the CSIC on the source of nutrient loading of the Limia River that had been entrusted to the Hydrographic Confederation. In view of this communiqué that Coren sent to the media, the Galician Natural History Society considered it necessary to reiterate its conclusions. Urban source of nitrates. If the majority source of nitrate pollution from the Limia plain were dumped by urban waste water insufficiently purified - which could be -, it would be expected that the highest level of pollution would be associated with the main nuclei of population, especially the Xinzo de Limia population nucleus, which concentrates more than a third of the Limia plain population. The results dropped that possibility. The greedy source of nitrates. If the majority source of nitrate pollution on the Limia plains was the mismanagement of organic waste from industrial farms, the highest levels of pollution could be expected to be associated with places where the production and storage of such waste is concentrated. The results confirm, without a doubt, this possibility for the two points studied, which present the highest levels of pollution. The Conches were built in 1949. For half a century its waters have remained clean, although they bear the spills of waste water from which is the population and without any treatment of purification. From 1989 onwards, industrial livestock began to grow spectacularly and substantiated on the Limia plain and the stable livestock is growing steadily, year after year. After the turn of the century, with a population reduced to 40% over the year 1950, but already with a gain of over 40,000 livestock heads, the proliferation episodes of toxic cyanobacteria in the Conchas began. The latest official data available indicate that on the Limia plain the population was 19,000 inhabitants in 2013 and the gain burden was 62,000 livestock heads in 2009, so, seeing this data, half of the entire population of Galicia concentrated on 1% of the surface, half of Galicia's population throwing their waste at 1% of Galicia's surface. With this, what we've come to request here today to this plenary is something we're being denied. If we were denied last year, we asked for article 9, and it seems to us a very important violation of the rights we have in this House, and we were denied in the commission last week, so we brought him back to the full. What we ask for is: To provide parliamentary groups with documentation on what measures are being taken to prevent these practices we have just described from being carried out under a supposed legal framework. Documentation on the measures being taken in relation to the storage of open-air yards in direct contact with the floor. Documentation on controls on the management of packaging of plant protection products. Documentation on control measures to which companies that are engaged in transport and distribution of these jurors are being submitted. An up-to-date census today of the gain burden that this region is bearing; I don't think we're asking for anything from the other world. Open an investigation, contacting the competent authorities, to clear up responsibilities - you have to clear them, the boundary area is contaminated - about the state in which the land and the waters of the boundary region are located. Make a moratorium on the limit area at the installation of new farms. Order existing holdings, existing holdings, and adopt environmentally sustainable management of agricultural waste generated to comply with European Union law. Check the areas associated with pig holdings. It can't be that a company has partner plots in other autonomous communities when we all know that later there are no jurors. Exist on ferry farms for the management of jurors, rafts that are suitable for the size of the holding. Take full control of the companies involved in the transport of jurors. Put Sarreaus Jury Treatment Centre into operation. To publish a decree on the management of agricultural waste and to be - yes - thank you. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u119	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. Before we move on to the representative of the Socialist Group, we greet the students and students of second grade of the ESO of the Instituto A Penguina, of Monforte de Lemos, as well as their teachers and assistants. Welcome to Parliament. Now yes, for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u120	Thank you, President. I also want to greet these students because today we're going to talk about the environment, and in these last few days, in recent months, girls and boys of their age are teaching us a lesson in environmental protection. Surely they will never quote José María Aznar, who said today not daily Expand: "You can't be threatening the apocalypse every day at the cost of climate change, gun throws against free societies." He forgot to say big ones. Actually, today we're going to talk about the Limia, we're going to talk about waste, and finally we're going to talk about that mismanagement that leads us to the climate crisis situation that we're living in, despite what José María Aznar says. We have registered an amendment that partially amends the application, the text, of the Joint Group, actually on four of the points that the request has. In point 2, we believe that it is essential that, as are the waters of the Conchas coronation, the procedure opened by the Ministry for the Ecological Transition on the declaration of the impact of these waters should be supported. In point 3, apply with extreme control, with completeness, the regulations that already exist on the installation of new farms. In point 8, publish urgently, so that it will enter into force before the month of March next year, regulations on the management of agricultural waste, whether a decree or any other rule. And in point 9, that in the next budgets, by 2020, there is an budgetary departure that will end with this problem of environmental pollution and also public health. We are sure that you, the person, the spokesman, the deputy or member of the People's Group who is going out here, will say that it is already being done, that the Middle Rural Counsellor had promised a jury treatment plant on the Limia, a training plan, a strategic plan, and even a schedule of sectoral tables, but of course, you have been ruling for ten years and there is nothing there; in the neighborhood of Limia they are still waiting to sit down. And it's not just the wastes and the spills on the plain, it's the wastes all over Galicia. Waste management is one more subject for you by September: gloves, sailors, urban-organics, industrial, urban-featured, plastics, all kinds of waste you haven't done anything about. It is also true that we, from the left, cannot teach anyone about the environment, according to Mr. Casado, who is the advanced student of José María Aznar. There are two problems at the threshold. The tremendous problem right now is the situation of the Conchas coronation. I'm glad it was built in 1949 but forty years later it changed radically. Until 1989, with a population in the Limia twice as much as today's population in the region, there was no problem of clearance, there were no problems that now have the encouragement. The problems came when industrial gain began to grow spectacularly. From here, cyanobacteria appeared in the chorus; they became toxic; there are microcystins; and microcystin is originating acute liver damage in the region. And they come to people because they drink water, because they bathe, because they eat fish from the rivers and even breathe, they give technical reports. That's been happening since 2011. There's a 2011 university report, but there's also a study of the CSIC, which the Galician Natural History Society expressly referred to the Mino-Sil Hydrographic Confederation and the General Directorate of Maggy Water, with that government of Mariano Rajoy and governing you in Galicia, and what they did was they usually do: open a drawer, put it in, close the drawer and stay there. Of course, now the Ministry of Ecological Transition, which is made up of Taliban - I think you said - and beautiful ladies and gentlemen, who seems to be the only one in the Government, declares that the waters of the coroner are affected, even though the procedure is about to end. The other problem there is, as a result of the consequence of the water of the coriander, is the drags and the discharges by running water of pure gloves...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u121	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u122	...and poultry farms, which are used as fertilizers. We believe that the time has come to reconcile economic activity, agricultural activity, with health and with environmental protection and conservation, and that it is time not to look elsewhere. We hope our amendment is accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning. Good morning to pupils and teachers from the Penguin, which is very attractive in high school. The substitution of small family farms located in the territory, based on land and its cultivation, by macro-grinds that handle considerable amounts of animals and consume large quantities of inputs produced thousands of miles away, left us a complicated problem, that of jurors and manure, and their contaminant effect on land and water by their excessive amount. One may wonder how we got to this situation without the alarms being skipped. Well very easy: because there are no alarms! Everyone sees the problem, but everyone shuts up. And the problem grows and grows, and the more it grows, but the quieter because the net has a mesh that puts it all in, that net points out those who don't let themselves be guided. It's easy, the policies of favors, not social rights, practiced from the PP are like this. When a problem arises, it covers itself, and poor of what it says, because it is immediately qualified to revolt and insolidary! And the problem continues to grow, and there comes a time when the solution can be traumatic, and it's the moment we're here. We're on the threshold, but we could well be on the Ten or other areas of the territory of this country, greedy of economic activity and where there are people with entrepreneurial spirits. The pig grows that way, without planning, erratically, but the serious thing is, once again, we're producing huge amounts of primary goods, this time meat, which, without just processing them, goes to the market. And once again, we gave up the best cut to others, gave up the added value and swallowed the shit, with forgiveness. Let's go around the world, the PP's hand, giving lessons of submission and good people giving business to others who may need it most. I'm complex not to be anyone, not to belong to a country of first. Because it's about shit, a lot of density of farms and little territory to absorb the waste. Wastes necessary for agricultural land, but the country is without agricultural land, importing food from other areas of the State, Europe and even America. And we have to laugh and be happy, because, if we don't, we'll be covered up with catastropheists and radicals. And life follows, on the Limia too, with more enlargements, with new farms, with more pollution and with eutrophication of water and land that raises health alarms. I'm sorry, I didn't mean that!, you know, now they're going to say that the BNG is against the intensive meat producers or that we intend to question other productive sectors affected by eutrophication. Shut it, nobody say anything! The PP is acting with the law in hand and there's no problem, I don't know how many juror treatment centers, one of them on the Limia, I don't know how many ultra-modern debugger systems, I can move those jurors and chickens left to some plants where they're going to make a way of composting with crushed biomass that will give an organic bonus that will revolutionize the Greek agriculture. I know! But everything done with Europe's money that should go to protect and develop land-based, extensive, sustainable and environmentally friendly family farms. But he's got more! They keep running forward. And after the elections, what? When they return from fear of the batacazo, what will it be about the Limia and its problem? Well, it's going to be that, before all these wonderful corrective measures, we'd need a real census of farms and animals that they didn't. We will need to make public the data on the associated land that each farm has to see how many farms it supports each hectare of land, or that land is associated with some farm with excessive distances -- there are 100 kilometers in the middle -- because that's the only way we'll take care of the problem in a cross- and real way. We need to know what the real dimension of the problem is in order to solve it, and while it's necessary to curb the purpose, not let it grow. So it's necessary not to grant more licenses, neither new holdings, nor expansion of existing ones, and it's being done. It was PP's policies that generated the problem, leaving others who were PP's, but not government, that they were doing, or are they and they were government? They, the covered oligopolie, put the farms where they seemed to them, with a land-based waste management system. But we've been landless for years, and the government didn't do anything, it didn't do anything. And life went on. The government didn't say anything because the cooperative ordered and commanded, and it's necessary to shut up because they're supplanting the government, and then the elections will move wills! And the Limia, in the meantime... and life follows, and it follows them. What we need to clarify is how long you'll wait. And we'll also see how long Limia will stop this situation without cracking. And we'll see.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u125	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Before giving the floor to Mr. Cal, who is now responsible for the Joint Left Group, I wanted to apologize because in the previous debate, when he was using the word, I used an expression that should not be used by the Presidency. The Presidency must not enter as a Member builds or not his argument and speech. I didn't mean that, but it was me. What I wanted to say is that maybe it's not for the honourable Member's interests, but that was another story. In any case, the Presidency must enter if the debate is not adjusted to the one referred to in the Rules of Procedure. Then accept my apologies because it was a mistake. I shouldn't use that and apologize. It's not for that either! [[Applause]] Now yes, you have the floor for Mr. Cal's Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u126	Thank you, President. Obviously, excuses are accepted, as I've already told you in private, it can't be otherwise. And as I've already told you in private, I think that sometimes there are some ladies who are not in the use of the word that are very repeat in their speech by asking the person you're talking about, and I think we should sort out a little more of that matter, as I've already told you in private. Of course, excuses accepted. I hope my intervention at this moment will please you. [[Laughter]] This morning we again see another negationist pearl like that of Aznar who commented on Mrs Vilán, who says that companies must be free to continue to pollute everything they want without anyone getting caught up with them, and what is at the bottom of this expression is the neoliberal model, which externalizes environmental costs and needs that externalization of costs in order to continue to obtain the enormous benefits that it is getting. Finally, what we're talking about is the need for a model change for another where the productive sectors are sustainable and they don't destroy the house we have to live in, because otherwise their own productive centres won't have a future either, because they won't have a place to develop. This initiative that the Joint Group brings today talks about the enormous environmental and public health conditions of a model of intensive farming, which was shifting the traditional model and which did not count with responsible administrations who were following the necessary problems arising from this model, which are not new, and for all these years we had the Administration looking to the other side while the aquifers were contaminated and contaminated, the air we breathe, the landscape is degraded and biodiversity destroyed. These are the problems I was talking about in my intervention with the Dry Law, where the Galician Union is not doing its work, where the Galician Union has to act so that the resource will not continue to be contaminated because, when we have a drought emergency situation, we will lack water resources, and on the other hand, a lot of the water resources we count will be contaminated with, and that is what endangers the supply to the population, and here we see a clear example of this situation. What ensures the water supply to the population is to keep the resources. Environmental conservation is the most important thing, that's what you haven't been doing in Galicia's board, and today you bring here a bill only to cover your responsibility, which only serves for one thing with regard to water supply, that when there's a problem in a city, Galicia's board can get the law out and say that the fault is with the council, it's absolutely no use for anything else. Where he has to act is this kind of action. In view of the position of the People's Party in this respect, you will see how concerned you are about the whole water cycle. As in the Sobredo dos Monxes initiative, we'll see the People's Party as it stands to preserve the integral cycle of water. The situation of Limia is the result of a model that we have known for decades that is degradationing the environment, and in what we need to intervene to change these harmful practices by forms of sustainable production and friendly to the health of people, because, if not, there is no future. And we can't listen to Aznar on this issue and let them be free to continue polluting. It is essential to act urgently because we will have to act equally, because it is impossible to maintain this progress because the environment does not resist it and it will have to act. So the sooner you act, the better. It's best in the middle, but not just in the middle, it's best also in the production model itself, because it's destroyed and it's risking a whole region, the environmental situation of a whole region, which puts the production model itself at risk of that region. So as soon as he acts, it will be better for people's health, it will be better for the environment, but also for the development of this agricultural production model itself, because it's no longer possible to keep hiding the garbage under the carpet. It's been too long hiding the garbage under the carpet, and you can't keep hiding anymore because it's already upholstered, the trash is overflowing, and not only in the territory of the Limia, it's overflowing in many places in Galicia. It's dripping the garbage all over the corners, it looks and it smells, too, it smells a lot. So you can't keep hiding and you have to act with the greatest urgency. A responsible administration must guarantee the bread by tomorrow, which in this matter is being put at risk, while the bread is being administered fairly for today, and with the People's Party we have neither one question nor the other. He's not sharing exactly today's bread, and he's risking tomorrow's bread. That's the usual political practice of the People's Party. And we must act urgently for the very importance of the sector in Galicia. The sooner you start to bet that this sector improves its sustainability, the better the future will be waiting for the sector for the future. I said in my speech -- already finished -- and she didn't like anything about the Counsellor, that you were advised by Mr. Rajoy. Maybe you're right and you're not advised by Mr. Rajoy, maybe you're hired by Mr. Aznar, who we've seen this morning, or perhaps by someone closer to you, who is Mr. Agustín Hernández, who to denounce that the waters are contaminated is about to take the garbage out of the river. That's the People's Party! [[Laughter]] Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u127	Thank you, Mr. Cal. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Gómez Salgado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u128	Good morning to all of you. I was going to greet the students at Penguina but they're no longer present. Ladies and gentlemen, Professor Eduardo Costas, professor of genetics at the Faculty of Veterinary Complutens himself in Madrid in a recent interview, certainly shocking, that: "The problems of Limia can be solved easily. What we can't do is leave it as it is. Doing good compensates for things." Faced with some catastrophic messages, he draws attention to the message of this professor. Mrs. Vilan, Mr. Rivas, the problems of the Limia, if you have problems, and you have them, they don't come from yesterday. Mr. Suárez Canal is practically from the Limia, he was there next door. Mr. Linares, President of the Mino-Douro Hydrographic Confederation, also had responsibilities, and we all work together in the same direction. Ladies and gentlemen, Limia is one of the most important agricultural regions in Galicia, with excellent quality products both in the agricultural sector and in the livestock sector. Among other things, it is the basis of protected geographical indications such as Pataca de Galicia, Terneira Galicia, Mel de Galicia or Pan de Cea. Farm farms represent one of the fortress of the region and are one of the fundamental pillars of the comarcal economy and even provincial, with thousands of livestock heads, of which approximately 75,000 correspond to larger livestock units. This livestock production results in the generation of a large volume of jurors derived from animal dejections, which, to a large extent, are being used as fertilizers and fertilizers which, compounded in the appropriate proportions and times, are shown to be a beneficial by-product for agricultural production. The Galician Council, through the Council of the Rural Environment, presented at the last meeting of the Boundary Bureau a series of measures and actions to avoid environmental damage from inadequate management of interest, which regulate, among other things, the collection, transport and application of such interest, complementing this regulation with a processing system through environmental management plants to lead this region and other gainful areas of Galicia towards a profitable, sustainable and environmentally friendly production. This plan, by the way, Mrs. Patricia Vilan doesn't like it. To do things well, Your Honor, as Professor Eduardo Costas said, it was the Rural Media Advisor himself who set up the Limia Bureau, to give voice and participation to all the actors involved in the solution of this problem: farmers, farmers, companies in the sector, associations, environmental groups and, of course, all the institutions involved. Among the commitments made by the Rural Media Council at the Limia Bureau - Mrs. Patricia Vilán, although she does not like them - to do well, the honourable Member, presented the Strategic Plan of the Limia Agrarian Sector - the PEL - developed with the participation and approach of all the members of the Bureau; a tool for analysing and diagnosing the current situation of the region and focusing on future opportunities. To do well, ladies and gentlemen, he presented a plan for agribusiness training for the Limia, a plan that, for example, speaks of respect and addresses the consequences of the change in the quality of water derived from landfills from livestock, due to inadequate treatment of animal waste, or by flows of nutrients, pesticides and agricultural herbicides. To do things well, ladies and gentlemen, the third commitment was the presentation of the Sidega. Sidega will be the new law, at its own time, for Galicia's integrated collecting management system, in order to generate a new model that is highly committed, environmentally friendly, efficient and, of course, transparent, starting from a premise, and the premise is that the current gain disposal management system is inadequate. This new model will develop an integrated, coordinated and homogeneous system, which incorporates the regulation and control of self-application on the part of farms, implementing in the first phase four environmental management centres in Galicia for the treatment of gainful discards, the first one will be on the threshold. It will complete the next reopening of the Sarreaus plant, and will allow it to protect the environment, reduce the carbon footprint by decontaminating soils and aquifers, and, above all, shielding the sectors of Greek milk, meat and agri-food products towards a green, profitable, sustainable and environmentally friendly economy. That's why, Mr. Rodríguez, we consider your LNP again to be late. And once again, the arguments that are being heard here neither favor nor help, and less the image towards the marketing, Mr. Rivas, of the excellent products that are being produced in the boundary region. I'm not going to say what you'd like me to say, I say what I think I have to say responsibly... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u129	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u130	...with a commitment to the sustainability and agricultural production of my region. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] The Galician Union has already answered most of the questions and will continue to be given through the Boundary Bureau, where, in an open and participatory manner, they will address each and every one of the proposals according to the planned calendar and protocol. Finished, President. On the other hand, most of the threshold farmers' associations, the first interested in sustainable production, received these measures with optimism, and I would even dare to say that most of the boundary table components, collectives, institutions, and still neighbouring, were shown hopeful. To do well, ladies and gentlemen, the answers will be in the Bureau of the Boundary, which counts on participation, suggestions and approaches from all sectors. We trust the responsibility and commitment of its components, which represent a cross-sectional, effective and participatory pathway in the analysis and search for solutions and case studies to the problems presented in this Orensá region. It won't be the People's Group that disallows them. In spite of everything, ladies and gentlemen, we are willing, if we accept a point vote, to reach timely agreements on this proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u131	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u132	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u133	Thank you. Group author of the non-law proposal, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u134	Thank you, President. I take advantage of — yes now — to greet the neighbors and neighbors of the Comarca da Limia that accompany us today. Mr Salgado, this initiative is late. You guys have been doing nothing on the threshold for twenty-five years. You're late. And this initiative has been here more than a year ago and you haven't supported it. We're asking for documentation. We want to know what measures are being taken in relation to the management of jurors, what controls are being carried out in this respect. Of course, then we see these images, and the companies that distribute them, and the truth is, we understand a lot of things... related and everything with the company that's exploiting the Limitia. Huge trucks and tankers divide purely frantically, and in many cases clandestinely. This is what they're doing indiscriminately. But apart from the pigs' purins, we now also have poultry waste. The whole limit, much of the threshold is like this, and this is not good for the threshold, they don't want to put a handkerchief on it so they won't see it! But in case he wasn't there yet, now we're also going to put a ration of ridant sludge on him. Tomorrow we'll talk in addition to the muds of the debugger here. I think it's a weak favor if you're wrong to yourself. Look, beyond the good intentions statements you've brought here today, you have to do what you have to do is comply with the different rules of application and stop looking somewhere else. In view of what happened again just two weeks ago in the coronation of the Conchas, some political leaders, instead of looking for solutions — that, by the way, there are, you said there are — what they're doing is hiding the problem by saying that the boundary is all controlled. They're hiding a document I asked for more than a year ago in this Parliament by Article 9. You're lying about the status of the juror in the territory of the Limia and the Lower Limia. Then we found ourselves with episodes like what happened on August 14, threats, coercion, thrusts, protection of the forces of public order. I thought it was serious and worrying. In the face of the lack of reasons, we often turn to violence, brute force and try to silence the messengers. The reality imposes environmental failure on the Valley of the Boundary. Anyone who goes there will see him. And for the sake of the Val da Limia, the Comarcas da Limia and the Lower Limia, we need appropriate measures and actions, but urgent. It's time to take responsibility and stop looking the other way. You have been ruling for more than forty years in this country, if pollution of Limia and Conchas coronation is a recurrent fact — we all know, and spends year after year — why has no action been taken so far? How can political leaders risk even their own health and that of their own neighbours and neighbours? We have to have some ethical and moral principles, besides a green Galician who sold us President Feijóo here two weeks ago. Professor Costas' article, of what you were talking about — I read — is to tremble! — "The bottle of the Urense Conchas produces chemical war toxins," that's what Mr. Costas said. And whose fault is it? Because it's the fault of speculative interests that few people put at risk the health of thousands of people. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Regarding the amendments, the amendment of the PSOE greatly reduces the content of our amendment; however, we think we can reach an agreement. We also appreciate the willingness of the People's Party to reach some agreement. Still, I'd rather take care of it tomorrow. I'd rather talk to the platform and let them decide.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u135	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u136	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u137	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Galician people, at the initiative of Da Paula Prado del Río and eight other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Galician Union aimed at incorporating the draft legislation regulating the Galician games of an article establishing the creation of a Greek gaming observatory which has among its functions to develop a juvenile playing protocol and an annual report on the game in the autonomous community
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u138	There are amendments to the Group of the Blocs, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Joint Left Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u139	To formulate the proposal you have the floor to Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. The Popular Party presented itself to the September 2016 elections with a clear commitment in the field of game regulation. In the election program of the Galician People's Party of Autonomic Elections of 2016 we had a commitment to modify the 1985 Game Law; an electoral program that was supported by most of the Greek citizenship in those elections. We have fully implemented that commitment and have been working in the same direction for several years. We have already presented here, in this House and in the Commission, initiatives in which you have had the opportunity to speak and even to vote, in some case in a somewhat surprising way. But as the months and days advance, and we see that the problem is complex, you're adding a little bit to the car of modifying this law and adapting it to the current circumstances of the game, especially in those cases where the rights of people and the most vulnerable groups, such as childhood and youth, are affected. In the People's Party of Galicia, we are very aware of the many changes that the gambling sector has undergone in recent years, resulting from its progressive deployment and generalization in all areas of society, and, therefore, this has assumed a greater demand, which assumes that the Administration has to implement greater controls on the dangers and risks arising from the abuse of the uncontrolled exercise of the game. In particular, technological advances have been made in the field of gaming machines, which have generated new gaming products. They proliferated in Galicia, in recent years, gambling machines at hostel sites, in betting shops and playrooms. The practical application of the law I was talking about before, of the current 1985 Law, obviously has shortcomings that do not allow this new stage of the game, and, in many cases, the application of the legislation and its interpretation with these new modes of play, which prevent there from being greater legal certainty. Therefore, the amendment of the current rules of play has to address aspects in which the 1985 Law shows shortcomings and difficulties of interpretation, such as advertising, which we have already discussed in the Commission, which is the competence of the autonomous community, although in this debate we incorporate a demand to the central government so that in the field of its competence it will also make that modification of advertising, especially of the so aggressive advertising that we are seeing in the media. We were talking about announcements involving elite sportsmen, who are admired by boys and girls, what you do is trivialize the problem that can have the game and see it as something normal. Besides, their sports leaders and their idols present it as an absolutely harmless thing, when it isn't. In this sense, we also need to regulate the accounts of the bonds that companies have to provide, changes in the sanctioning regime, with the fundamental object of protecting minors and the group of ludopaths. The law also has to be an opportunity to introduce greater controls on access to the game by minors. These days we saw as there was an operation, called Operation Arcade, of the National Police, which, in collaboration with the Mosos of Escuadra and the Navarra Foral Police, broke into an inspection of nearly two thousand gambling establishments throughout Spain, where they found minors playing in those establishments and found people who had forbidden entry into those playgrounds. So we can't leave the game entrepreneurs or the game operators to prevent and prohibit minors from entering this kind of institution. Several expert studies are saying and concluding that the profile of the ludopath has changed. It has become a profile of an older person who went to a casino or who had more visible additions, such as slot machines, a profile of younger people, who use new technologies, and who from their own smartphone can be intimate and not visible playing at any point, even from home, without knowing and without themselves, often realizing the situation in which they are immersed. So today is more the youth that is immersed in this problem, that every day, by the way, is worse. According to the Official Game Ordering Authority, 36% of the players started to be underage. There are a lot of studies that say that minors play. On the one hand, we see those studies, and on the other hand, there are people who say no, that minors don't play. The fact is that the law forbids minors to enter both online gaming websites and gaming establishments, but you take the press any day and we read things like, "Spain has the highest rate in Europe of ludopaths between 14 and 21 years of age." "I started betting the coffee turn and ended up being over 40,000 euros at 21 years of age." "The betting and online game are the most growing addictions in Spain. The affected persons already account for 2.5 % of the addicts and claim rehabilitation treatments to end their dependence." "Ludopathy, the drug of the 21st century." "24% of minors say they bet on Galicia." "The danger of betting if you're fifteen." "The game extends between young people and experts ask for more regulation to avoid addictions." We can't look somewhere else. It's evidence that minors are playing even though the law forbids it. Therefore, as administrations and politicians we have an obligation to continue to introduce measures that prevent minors from playing games and that minors are introduced into this roulette as dangerous as the "addition without substance", as we know the addition to the game, by the way, very dangerous, and even some experts say that it influences the mechanisms of adding just like cocaine. So we can't trivialize this or look elsewhere. We must tackle this problem seriously and strictly. The increase in gambling venues, betting machines scattered across all the hostel sites across the territory, that aggressive publicity we were talking about. In addition, data from ludopath associations say five times the number of partners they have in the last two years. But of these, the number of minors who attend the associations has been squared. So we, the People's Party, have been working in this field since the zero minute. We have, as I said before, presented a number of initiatives in this House and we are also working from the Government. Today we have been talking about an important issue that we also believe is fundamental, and we want that in this law that is being drafted, in the preliminary draft law that is in the course of allegations, the contributions that have already been made by those who have participated in the Game Commission, in the associations of ludopaths, in the game entrepreneurs, in addition to experts such as Professor Rial Boubeta, of the University of Santiago, who has done a lot of studies in the field of additions, of minors essentially, and other experts who are in the Game Committee advising, we believe that the law also includes the creation of a Greek observatory of the game. It would be a collegiate body in which councils with competences and interests in the field are represented, which would be responsible for the study, evaluation and follow-up of the policies of the game. In particular, we consider it essential that among its functions it is to draw up a juvenile gambling protocol and an annual report on the game in our community. It's true that we've seen published studies and there's a recent study in Galicia that says that 20 percent of children between 14 and 16 years of age recognize having ever played by the professor I just mentioned, but this study is based on the children's own manifestations. We believe that the observatory has to do a deeper study, a specific study on the importance of play in minors, its effects, its consequences, and the reasons and circumstances that allow boys to be more and more interested in the game. Public administrations must articulate the necessary measures to allow the people of Greece to play without any problem, but vulnerable groups reduce the probability of developing this problem or of falling back in those cases where they already had the addition. Therefore, it is necessary to enable the administrations of legislative tools to promote in the population playing patterns based on informed elections that are kept within affordable invested time and money, in balance with other activities of daily life and that do not generate associated problems. We ask for the support of all groups for the creation of this observatory, which will be responsible for knowing, analyzing, disseminating...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u141	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u142	...and detecting popups. Basically, our goal is to address the most vulnerable sectors of the population: childhood, youth and people who already have some kind of addition. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u144	Thank you, President. Good morning to all again. We agreed on something, we had to move, we had to act, we can't look the other way, Mrs Prado said. We, in that sense, present the addition amendment. That this law should now be brought to this Parliament to begin, as soon as possible, the parliamentary process and that all groups can, according to the regulation, make the amendments we consider to the draft law in which the Council of Galicia works and what it has been talking about more than a year ago. But I also have to tell you, Mrs. Prado, that listening to you, everyone would say that betting houses, gambling machines, gambling establishments in this country -- I don't know -- were generalized by infuse science. So we're going to take a little look, because it's a good thing that you've reformed the 1980s Game Law, from 1985, already on several occasions, and also taking advantage of a legislative tool that you like, which is the Budget Accompanying Law. [[Applause]] And let's see why, let's see why. [[Applause]] They authorized in the Budget Accompanying Act of 2015 that more than one casino per province could be opened, which was a restriction that established that Act of 1985. Today they say it's a little restrictive law, four years ago they seemed excessive and decided to suppress some of their limitations. [[Applause]] What allowed this, because everything has its consequences. Well, he allowed to open a casino in Vigo when there was a ban that there could be more than one in the same province, and there was already Toxa. It was a second room for that. What did Mr. Rueda say about opening a casino in Vigo at that time? Well, a very advantageous project that would expand the leisure offer, because at that time it didn't seem to us that this was a public health problem. In 2016, what did they do? Well, reforming the regulation that regulates the establishment of betting machines at bars and hostel sites because it seemed to them that the maximum of betting machines that was fixed at 2,000 was little, so it had to expand the number of machines. I agree with Mrs. Prado that all bars and hotels are set up at all. [[Applause]] You in December 2016 increased from 2,000, which was like the top in 2012, to 3,600. There's still a margin to this day, by the way, of 400 more machines that the sector can still install. And they also made a clarification, in the media and in this Parliament, of what were the reasons why they were extending up to 3,600 these machines at hostel and bar sites, and they said that we had to respond to the sector's request. That same sector that you now say cannot be given the power to talk about prevention in the field of public health. [[Applause]] But he didn't stay there, he didn't stay there! In 2017, also in the Accompanying Law, which is that subterfuge we have denounced since the BNG each year that you use to do what they want without having absolutely nothing to do with the budgets, they reformed the Game Law of the 1980s, Article 6(f) did so in Article 44, if I do not remember it badly, this Accompanying Law and tax measures, to broaden what is considered possible, which was restricted in the 1980s to a series of very specific definitions and you, with that accompanying law – I insist, in 2017, there was not so much time, this legislation – decided that the generalization of administrative authorizations to all bets on any event with uncertainty in the absence of the person who decides to bet. I understand that in 2017 that concern now shown by the People's Party, Mrs. Prado, it seemed that she didn't care so much. [[Applause]] That's why we ask the Galician Council to refer to this House, to the legislative power, this draft bill so that we can address what they have claimed since 2013 in many sectors of our country. At the same time, this weekend there have been concentrations and mobilizations in much of the cities of Greece, mainly in the Coruña, where they have been suffering in the working neighborhoods, especially among young people, the consequences of the proliferation of this type of practice, which we believe from the BNG that it is already a public health problem and we cannot — and we agree — look elsewhere. Ten thousand minors usually bet, according to themselves, in our country. We therefore agree that we cannot waste any more time, so let us not lose this Parliament together. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Joint Left Group, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is that we too, from our group, are puzzled by the argumentation of the People's Group, and of course we have faith: the People's Group are very concerned and very concerned about the situation of the proliferation of the game in Galicia and the effects on both new addicts and minors, so they have approved this increase in licenses and they have approved all those licences in these last few years of absolute majority. Who approved them? The People's Party of Galicia. What is the result of this great concern and the popular party's approval and increased licensing actions in recent years? For in April this year: Ship against sports bets. In Vigo, the neighbors had to mobilize before the imminent opening of a playroom next to a children's park. "We want them to feel pressured and to leave." Navia's neighbours did not stand with their arms crossed in the face of the actions and the permissivity of this concerned Government of the People's Party of Galicia because there was a set of sports bettings in the center of Navia and located in a place which was the one that caused most discomfort: no less than just 20 meters from a very crowded children's area. The People's Party is very concerned! Concentration in Coruña against betting houses: 6th of 10th of 2019. The city that most betting houses have all of Galicia. Soccer — which you said about this — is one of the main forms of sports betting. Neighbors concentrated within a few metres of Riazor stadium, precisely during the pre-party between Sport and Almería, to denounce these social and neighbouring groups the lack of action, inaction, and to allow the proliferation of this kind of business, such as betting houses, and even demanded an alternative leisure and complained about the advertising bombardment of advertisements that incite the play, hence the concern of the People's Party. Round it up yesterday, the third demonstration — and they will follow — because they don't want a place of bets near the school area. More than 200 people, along with neighbors and social groups in Roundabout, have been shown because another business of this kind is going to be placed very close to the school area of Marisma, where three institutes, a school, a childhood school and a conservatory are concentrated. They're so worried! And that's why, because he quoted it and loved Mrs. Paula Prado to quote it, and encouraged me to go to Mr. Antón Rial Boubeta's talks, because I quoted it, who participates in the commission of experts, professor of the University of Santiago, psychologist and expert in this matter, denounced in Cangas in 2017: In seven years, the volume of girls who put money on the network has tripled. He was already warning about the proliferation of two online video games and betting on the Internet, and he said this year: "The game can become the big epidemic of addictions." And they're all newspapers of these that like the People's Party, eh! They're not those who are supposed to be intervened on the left. He also said on the radio that the law was late, very, very late this law. And he said a very hard sentence: "We're collecting corpses by the cunettes." Textual words of the evening that arrived. And I was talking about the fact that, in fact, comprehensive prevention is needed in order to overcome the situation, and in addition to legislate, mechanisms had to be established, but above all, concrete mechanisms had to be put in place in the legislation on direct and vigorous prevention and eradication, so if not, it would be impossible to stop this social tragedy in this business. In the end, the problem is that this is a business, which is why you get together with companies and game entrepreneurs; because it's a greedy business that accounts for 2% of GDP, from which the tax collects 2,000 million euros, which are the priority of who is law-makers, in this case, and which are not used to reverse the effects of this addition and its prevention. And as this professor, Mr. Rial Boubeta, said, it is much easier to invest a euro in prevention than to have to spend five on assistance. That's why he denounced the administration's irresponsibility. But of course, the People's Party is so concerned that in the news that they are alarming about the age of new game addicts, that 25% of teenagers play sports betting, and that they report that 82% of the advertising of gaming-related companies is issued in children's hour slots and is linked to the field of sport or leisure, when we proposed an amendment to their advertising proposal saying that advertising as experts have said, associations, you say that they are radicalism and that then they couldn't even issue lottery ads. Well, look, we're radical about that. When there are children and when there are these issues, we are radical. As when alcohol ads were basically banned, that's what associations propose. And that's why we...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u147	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u148	...we're not going to accept this proposal, because we want to go much further, and our proposal collects all this: the ban on advertising; the prohibition on licensing, at least one kilometer away, among other things they've already read; the prohibition on alcohol sales in games halls; mechanisms for controlling access of minors to slot machines; regulating the distance, I tell you, clearly and forcefully, of playrooms, gambling venues, casinos, bingo rooms, and besides that collected by law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u149	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u150	And that's why we will also present our bill - which was previously registered and will defend it to companion Eva Solla - because we're not going to put patches, we're not going to put patches to say...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u151	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u152	...which worries us, because we are more concerned about the lives and additions of minors in this drama than about what they can earn tax and business with this voracious business...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u153	Thank you. Your time is up. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u154	Thank you, President. Good morning. Good morning to all and to all. It is undoubtedly a relevant topic, an issue of interest, we have discussed it on numerous occasions with proposals that from several groups have been approached by the commission of this parliament, and from our group, not only for my part, my comrade Noela Blanco has also presented initiatives that, in fact, some of the subsequent interventions, such as, for example, the part of this initiative today, have some quite clear arguments, so at some point we must have some consensus. It's true that it's important to have some historical baggage, because sometimes we can't even recognize where we came from. There is a state regulation, not only we have seen of the 1985 law, which, of course, has to be reformed. We've also seen a law of the year 2011, and what happens is that I know it's hard to pronounce the name of a socialist president by the People's Party, but if you sometimes agree that the law had to be updated, remember that there is a state law of 2011 adopted by a socialist government. By the way, when this law started proceedings in Congress, the People's Party said it was hasty, and they voted in favour of all the parties but one, the People's Party, who did not pass this law. So when they come to want to teach about the law of the game, remember that you come especially from the realm that was not in favor. But it's good that you bring this initiative here, as in the other committee. [[Applause]] Make an interesting doubt. If the preliminary draft of the law - it is available today - is working and is in the process of allegations, why are we from Parliament conditioning the law when it comes to the next stage, later. When the law enters Parliament and we should debate the law, it is when we, as parliamentary groups, have to make allegations, debate about them, but not, we are now doing so. Conclusion: the People's Party does not like the law issued by the People's Party. I don't know if the People's Group has any problems with the Government of the Union, but the People's Group is amending the law that promotes the Government of the Union. And this, what's the point? How can you explain yourself? It's true that in an expression that is well known by the popular bench, particularly the player, it's not the best legislative technique or it's not the most appropriate legislative technique. We're promoting non-law proposals now on a preliminary draft that is already admitted by a government that supports the Party that promotes some non-law proposals. That's great! And so they end up putting the reform of the law through budgets, which is not the best technique, but they enjoy it very much. Some of the conditionings are very interesting, in addition. For example, it was mentioned here that advertising was limited. We speak seriously, it is proposed to limit the advertising of the autonomous competition game on public channels. And now tell me what the autonomous competition game in Galicia is. Because that's what we limit. What are we really limiting? Nothing! Because when we propose to make a complete limitation of the game, the People's Party is not in favour. Because when we talk about more possibilities, not just public media, the People's Party is not in favour. And it's a subject to debate, but the People's Party is looking for something else, it's looking for something else. Titulars, they're fine. Titleers, because you're more of a look than an effective one. It's more, they propose an observatory, that's all right. We're going to give him skills. Skills not only that they do jobs, but that their recommendations, as they are experts, are valid to amend the law. Oh, but not that. If reports from the People's Valley or the Board of Auditors take out the trash, we don't know what they're going to do with the Game Observatory. The truth is, it's pretty predictable. I'll tell you a little bit of curiosity. When this law was dealt with in 2011 — which you don't want to remember — was because you didn't agree with it — one of the most controversial issues was the National Game Commission, which did the work you are now giving to the observatory. All the parties were in favour, except one, the People's Party, who voted against, who said that there was no need for a national commission to observe and monitor. Why? Why were the socialists ruling then, and there was something else to say? Why is it now yes and not before? The question is, if you want to amend a law, why didn't you include it in the preliminary draft? Or is the Government against the proposals made by the People's Party? Or do they have a relationship problem between the People's Group and the People's Party in the Government? Appearance [...]. You're looking for these changes to win headlines, and we're hoping the law can be debated in depth. So we're presenting an amendment that helps the People's Group, which probably can't say what it really means because it doesn't agree with the law, so we agree, the preliminary draft is quite weak. We propose an amendment that says we paralyze that law, and we can build it as if we are proposing to build here, by a consensus agreement of the groups in this parliament, which is possible. Since no group, from what we see, agrees with the preliminary draft proposed by the Government of the Union, does it among the parliamentary groups, so we can all build a law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u155	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u156	I'm done, president. That's why we propose that amendment. And by the way, the observatory doesn't have to be in the law, which would be fine, but we can create it before, even. In addition, we will build the law between us all, and the People's Party will be able to do what it is saying through these non-law proposals, which is that it does not agree with the preliminary draft of the law of the Union, which at last we agree on: it is weak and insufficient, to see if we are able to do a better among all of us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u157	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u158	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. The People's Party Member began that this was a compromise from his electoral programme, and we see that, if so, they are putting little anxiety on him. Little anxiety because it took more than three years to bring him to this House, and it seems he's been working on since the government but they don't like it. And since they don't like it, they have to come from here and tell the Government how to do the bill, as if it were two beings that have nothing to do with it. So the first thing we'd like to know is that we're told that this whole battery of initiatives on the reform of the game law is when this bill is being processed, if they don't have a way of talking directly. I say this battery of initiatives because there are two sessions of the 1st Commission, we debate another initiative of the People's Party, telling the Government that content had to include -- as mentioned here now -- advertising reform of the Game Law. So, what's the matter? Don't you have any ideas, don't you have government initiatives with regard to content? Or they don't trust the bill that's being dealt with by the German Government itself. We've two different things. One thing is that Parliament, including the People's Party, tells the Government or urges the Government to develop a legislative reform, which, by the way, has already done the People's Party also in relation to the Law of the Game, thus exercising the Parliament's role as a placement in the public agenda of subjects for the Government, and another thing is to confuse this with the parliamentary process of legislative amendments. What we're looking at here is as if we've already had a bill of play presented in Parliament, something we don't have; the opposition groups don't know what that text consists of and, therefore, we're going a little blind, not like you, who know what there is and know what they want to add, they know it's what's leaving out a government that, on the other hand, is showing a government without ideas. It seems very interesting to us the proposal made by the Block. Since they're not getting him through the government, they bring him to the House and at least we process him as a bill with the necessary amendments to do this, but it doesn't seem to be the case either. We deduce from this situation, which is not the first, which is the second in less than a month, the second in less than a month, gentlemen! is that the Greek Government has no ideas, it is a government that is not prepared to meet the social needs derived from the very excesses of an existing legislation, which it explained here; in force, and with the consequent reforms adopted at its time by the People's Party. Soon we do not understand what they are trying to achieve with these initiatives or what they are trying to transmit. What message do you want to transmit? That the Government is not -- despite what it is doing right now -- what it has to be and the parliamentary group has to come to amend its plan? If only the parliamentary group can do this, we would like to participate, and that is not the way to amend a bill, but, when a bill is being processed, it is through the process of amendments in Parliament. The next question we wanted to ask and pass on to them is if the government doesn't listen to what they're told, and if the government doesn't listen to the sector. I want to remember one thing here, and I was upset to see when it was concrete the moment it had happened. In February 2018, the collective of workers and workers in the gambling sector met with all parliamentary groups - which is also in record with the People's Party - exposing a number of problems with regard to the current regulation of the law of the game and possible proposals for changes in various sectors. They also met with the People's Party and sent their complaints to the Government as well. They don't tell me that the Government couldn't take note of these measures, some of which, by the way, are the ones you're bringing here, a series of minimal contents that could be incorporated so that the law would be really new. We pointed at that meeting, in the documentation they gave us, three concrete aspects. First of all, one had a working character. They were workers and workers in the sector and they were saying they were reducing staff paintings in bingo places, for example, by recreational machines and betting machines, and there was worse control of access to machines. As a result, there was a double phenomenon: job destruction and, at the same time, a lack of control which resulted in situations that led to increased cases of ludopathy and social, personal and family breakdown. That's said by the workers themselves in the sector. Secondly, a tax evasion. There was a money movement that was not having a proper tax response. And then, on the social issue, on the subject of youth, it was making it easier to access machines without any control. It was indicated that it should be regulated just like tobacco or alcohol and that the rooms should have control that they didn't have right now. In the particular case, this initiative, even as another honourable Member has said, seems insufficient to us that it is basic, and it could even go further. We understood and did indeed include measures such as these, among other things, because they were claimed by the sector. There must already be a permanent forum, Mr President, to monitor the sector for being harmful, speculative and striking beyond, the humblest neighbourhoods of cities and villages. Secondly, with a mechanic that works like an additive, like a real drug. As he said and acknowledged his own popular colleague, worse than drugs, because it is produced, in addition, from the point of view of the psychological sphere, without leaving obvious signs of a physical nature beyond the personal, family and environment of the people who are affected. So it's a matter of collective co-responsibility that we will support, but it seems to us that it's not ambitious and we don't understand that this happens when the bill is being processed right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u159	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Prado Del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Villares, you are blind because you want, because you see, the preliminary draft law has been published on the portal of transparency and good governance of Galician Union on two occasions. The public consultation, from 19 March 2018 to 19 May of the same year, and the public exhibition from 29 March 2019 to July of the same year. I understand that you were going to other things, but don't come here to say that we know a project and that you don't know it. He doesn't know him because he doesn't want to. And look, everything you said here, and Mr. Torrado, about parliamentary processing, if we were in the first year of legislation would have a pass, you could say, they're novices, you don't know. But after three years, Mr. Villares and Mr. Torrado, it is no longer up to parliamentary courtesy with you to the barbarities they have said here about legislative processing. I'm not going in anymore. Mrs. Rodil, the increase in Ludomania is not just a question of the most mature sectors, such as casinos or roulettes, the problem is in the access of minors to ludomania. I've touched on that matter. You guys don't want to get into that thing? There you are! Mrs. Santos, we were puzzled when we brought here, in February 2018, a non-law proposition for you to vote if you wanted to change the Game Law and you voted that you didn't. No, no! No, no, not yours. [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]] Which joins through an amendment to the Game Law. You said you didn't need to. Well, now you try... I didn't interrupt it, either... It's not a lie, it's there. [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u161	Mrs. Santos, be quiet. Quiet. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u162	It's just that you voted against a People's Party initiative that said... the only ones who voted in favour were those of the Galician Nationalist Block. The Socialist Party abstained, and we can vote against, as recorded...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u163	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u164	And as it is, I'm not going to argue... but let me talk, because then Mr. Cal changes everything... [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u165	Silence, please, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u166	...because they're bothering you. Tell your partner...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u167	No, no, but silence. Mrs. Santos, please, I don't want to call you to order, but silence, she's in the use of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u168	Thank you, Mr. President. And about what Professor Rial Boubeta says, look, Mrs. Santos, you discovered Professor Rial Boubeta last week. We already know what Professor Rial Boubeta says, so the Galician Board incorporated him as an expert in the Game Commission, so that all these things that you say here and that we've all read in the media for months now and heard in talks and conferences to which we are going from Mr Rial Boubeta would be incorporated in that commission in which we are drafting the law of the game of the Greek Community; to incorporate its suggestions. [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]] So we already know that you intend to ban the announcements of everything, the ONCE coupon, the Christmas lottery, and that they are very radical. I know. If it were for you, they'd ban it until Christmas. But, look, no, we don't agree with that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u169	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u170	Look, Mr. Torrado, of course we know the law of 2011. Do you know how many times he quotes the word "less"? Three. I recommend you read it. Look, one is in the exhibition of reasons to say, "...without forgetting the indispensable protection of minors." See that not the rest of the law has been completely forgotten, because the only thing they say after is, in mild infringements: "...do not properly inform the public of the prohibition to participate in minors and persons included in the General Register of Prohibitions". This is the Socialist Party's concern, because, look, you in your amendment today also intend to postpone legislation. We don't agree with the delay, because the only ones who want to postpone this legal process are the game entrepreneurs. And I've told them more than once, you prove that they're with the businessmen...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u171	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u172	...of playing in these two documents, in which they have signed with Podemos and when it was the motion of censure, in which in gambling and gambling, one of their proposals was: "...to strengthen...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u173	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u174	...implementation and support of game operators in the development of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u175	Amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u176	...actions to prevent." I mean, they put the fox in the care of the chickens.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u177	Amendments, amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u178	You meant that the game entrepreneurs -- and they still pretend --
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u179	Amendments, amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u180	...because in the 300th Peter Sánchez...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u181	Pronounced on the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u182	...it's the same.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u183	On the amendments, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u184	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u185	Will you accept them or not?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u186	I'm going to make a compromise proposal that I propose to the groups. With the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block, we agree, what we ask is that it is included after "preceptive reports," because, logically, if there are reports that are still missing, we understand that they have to be given. It would be our first and second point. In the second we would incorporate: "...following the application of the legislation on the game in force of autonomous competence and drawing up proposals for amendments, authorisations and improvements to the regulatory framework." A point 3, which would be the amendment of the Block, but incorporating that: "...log of preceptive reports..." And a point 4, which would be: "...in parallel to the drafting of the law, co-ordinating a plan for the prevention of Ludomania among the various councils with competence in the field."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u187	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u188	I'll send you a text so we can come to an agreement.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u189	Pass us, please, that in writing. Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Xoaquín María Fernández Leiceaga and Da María Teresa Porrit Lueiro, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the evolution of the territorial imbalances in Galicia and the depopulation of some districts, as well as the guarantee of access to basic services of the whole population throughout the territory
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u190	There are no amendments. Mr. Leicega has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u191	Thank you, Mr. President. These days the press published a reminder 120 years ago, the memory of which were the 10 most populous municipalities, and there are some things that draw attention, for example, that the Town Hall of the Road had more population than that of Santiago, or that the Town Hall of the Foundry had three times the population of Vigo. In 120 years there was this change. What happened then? Nine out of ten people worked in agriculture, and therefore the population was evenly distributed in the territory. In addition, the costs - in time and the financial - of displacement were much higher than today. So there was a relatively homogeneous occupation of the territory. In these 120 years the story has changed substantially. There was a concentration of the population in cities, at the same time that the industrial sector was first developed and then the service sector, and in addition, the displacement costs have fallen remarkably, so today a person can live in a place, work in another place and go from leisure to a third place. There's a very remarkable polarization in Galicia today, fruit of this whole process of modernization, which is a positive process and of what current polarization is one of its consequences. We don't want to go back, we don't intend to go back to an idealized Galicia, but that was much worse than today's, where there was this homogeneous occupation of space. But at the same time we're worried, and it's also reasonable that we are. In the last ten years, 28 districts of Galicia -- to use a classification that is still operational today -- have lost on average 15% of its population. And it also appeared in the press -- I don't know if yesterday or today -- which were the municipalities that had the highest gross income in terms of per capita and the ones who had the least. Where they had the most, the cities and their areas of influence were collected, and where they had the least, no doubt, the mountain areas, the most ruralized areas. There is a polarization of the population in Galicia, a concentration around the Atlantic axis, with areas at risk of desertification - notably the eastern saws, but also large areas between the provinces of Ourense and Pontevedra, as well as districts of the Coast of Death or districts of the north of the province of Coruña - which are subjected to a population regression regime with a very significant impact. And at the same time, a more lively Galicia, which is nucleed around the Atlantic axis. That process -- for historical reasons that doesn't have time to explain -- it's been a lot of aggravation in recent years and it's going to intensify even more in the next few years, from there our concern. If you see the pyramid of population of some of the municipalities I spoke about before, "The Foncescrat, for example," you will also see that it is an inverted pyramid, which means that in the coming years, if nothing happens, a very remarkable descent of its population will occur. Population projections that IGE makes for comarcas indicate that in the next fifteen years, those 28 districts that lost 15% of their population in the last ten will lose about 20%. It's a very remarkable demographic regression process and a process of economic concentration, around the Atlantic axis, also of singular intensity. We intend not to revert the situation to 120 years, but rather to feed, support, strengthen the occupation of space today in some areas to prevent them from being completely deserted and therefore act on those elements that are easier than in the public sphere, which are three: infrastructures, services and encouragement to economic and entrepreneurial initiatives that make it possible for these regions to live. Without occupation there will be no population, no basic services there will be no population, no infrastructure that connects the population that lives in these areas of population regression with the most pushing areas of the territory there will also not be population. It's not about going back, but it's about strengthening the small dynamics that exist to maintain a minimal occupation of the territory, which I think we owe not only to our tradition, to our past, but we owe it to future generations, because a territory where there is a human occupation is, in principle, better protected, and we owe it to our citizens, basically, to those who, for reasons that are very legitimate, decide to live in areas of lower population density and who need to do so from minimum conditions with which the Public Administration must provide them. So what does our group propose in these circumstances? He proposes an action today on this very public service-centred initiative. We intend to make a public service map with a basically territorial criterion, which guarantees for basic services an access schedule that prevents it from being too far from where there are inhabitants, and that, in those cases where this does not happen, there is an action programme that keeps these services available to people, regardless of where they live in Galicia. We also believe that this should be strengthened by a direct political action, such as the establishment of a committee and parliamentary follow-up so that decisions affecting these areas of demographic regression in terms of public services can be reviewed and treated one by one, drawing attention to the importance of this decision. When a school unit is closed at Work, it's affecting very significantly what's going to happen there, now and in the future. And so it's not that we don't have to close down units, but we have to make it aware of the consequences that this will have. Therefore, a strengthened procedure in the face of the closure of these units. We also want you to create an independent, professional agency, following a model that's working elsewhere, the Scottish model, for example, that's having some positive consequences on unpopulated areas of Scotland, which are being able to reverse very slightly, but significantly that process of population regression. We want this to be done, because this action programme must be on the edge of political sinks, it must be a medium- and long-term action programme. We have to put on the long lights. There will be no way to reverse demographic inertia in the very short term, but with long lights, with cross-sectional support from political groups, with support from all institutions it is possible to do much more. This is about acting on the infrastructures, acting on the services, acting on the opportunities for entrepreneurship that are born in these regions, and achieving among all of us a human fabric and a living social fabric throughout the territory. If we do this, we don't turn around, but we're going to fight the worst polarization effects because, of course, we're at a time when taking a step back in many parts means crossing a path or crossing a threshold that will make the process irreversible. We're in the face of cumulative processes that have very hard weather effects. So I ask that this question be taken with interest, that it be rejected by the partisan criteria and that we may, if you think so, reach a great deal of agreement to act on the most dramatic processes of space polarization in Galicia. Thank you very much. At this hour I'll miss you for a minute.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u192	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u193	Good day again. We who are from Lugo have the question, the news, still on the table, to which Mr. Leicega referred. What we have to decide here is whether we are willing and willing for four children to have opened an educational center or not, whether we have an organization or not; whether we are willing and willing to make that effort and whether that effort is consistent with the values and principles that we defend as society. That's the whole point. In this same rostrum, just three years ago, the president of the Galician board said this was going to be the legislate of the rural, and we're checking how the legislation of the extermination of the rural, and it's being the one of the social extermination by a breakdown of families. Yes, yes, I exterminated the families for social destruction, where children and daughters continue to emigrate and only the old ones stay in the rural home. [[Murmurs.]] That's a social breakdown: there are people left, but these people are disstructured, even from a family point of view. Secondly, there is an economic elimination of rural areas due to lack of opportunities. Let the people who are at work age leave, who generate jobs and who generate incomes assume a lack of income transfer to rural areas, which is where they would also be spent if they were living these people, a complete decapitalization of the rural environment, a lack of business investment and a lack of public investment, as well as a strategy of compensation and territorial cohesion. We're not talking anymore about R & D, which is generally missing throughout the country. In the planning and execution in rural areas, it's not expected. And finally, it's a legislation for the extermination of the rural environment in demographic terms. The explanatory statement of this proposal contains clear data. I think I remember, even in my own experience in the Fonsgrad just ten or eleven years ago, as from 5,000 people who officially had the village spent 3,800 -- in just eleven years -- To defend this bet and this proposal that we are going to support, I would like to refer to allegations that indicate a body as unsuspecting as the last report submitted by the valet of the people, which was drawn up by the previous valet. I shall echo the eight items cited in that report which reflect the lack of territorial cohesion and the lack of solidarity between the whole of the country and its rural environment. First of all, in relation to the thirty measures announced from this same rostrum by Nuñez Feijóo after those forest fires, the October 2017 fire strike, there are still eight that have not been met, nor has the very institution of the People's Valedoria received information since it was required by the Government of Greece. Secondly, in relation to training to unemployed and certain payments, which involves a transfer from the public to citizens' pockets, be it in conversation, on training days, aids, etc., you see how they are producing repeated payments that are producing emergency situations; emergency situations that affect much more proportionally the people who live in rural areas than in cities, because the overall impact is much wider, because there is less active population and the impact of public transfers to citizens' pockets is much greater. We want this to be related to the complaint that we have made here that over the past nine years they have ceased to implement in active employment policies approximately EUR 945 million. With regard to health care, the people's valet also denounces how the legitimate exercise of the self-organizational authority of the Health Administration was causing the deprivation of access to essential health services, such as access to basic services in rural areas such as pediatrics or normal primary care, with increased costs also due to displacements for the citizens themselves living in rural areas in order to access those services in county heads or provincial capitals. With regard to rural transport, public transport, which is an essential element of cohesion that connects the villages with the villages, the villages with the head of the region and the head of the district with the urban surroundings, a generalized complaint is made of what the people's valet echoes in relation to changes in schedules, frequencies, connections and suppressions of public transport lines of road travellers. And the common element is the need for new services and the correction of deficiencies, in addition to a system of prices, which makes living and transporting in rural areas more and more expensive efficiently. So there's an additional burden on a tenth rural population, which is the one that costs a lot more living in the rural environment than those living in the urban environment. In the field of public works, it also echoes the special neglect of the secondary network, which causes greater insecurity in road traffic and thus a higher index and a higher probability of accidents. Another pity for living in rural areas. In the information technologies, it echoes a digital divide that is expanding as the technological dependence of our society widens and which, far from converge, is diverging, because technological needs are increasing for good connectivity, good job development and even leisure. You don't have access to that in rural areas. Finally, I would like to mention already, in terms of housing, how the absence of a public housing park, whether owned or rented, but particularly renting, prevents geographic mobility from going to the rural environment, so that even though work opportunities like those published less than a month ago in Guitiriz or in Somozas can't be cared for by people who later have nowhere to sleep. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u194	Thank you, Mr. Villares. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u195	Good morning. For, indeed, the picture of the people's population-related government inheritance is a much more unequal Galician: the worst Galician in the territory, in incomes, in wages, in public services; a Galician population crisis; a negative vegetable balance; a Galician migration of unacceptable young people and girls and with structural work precariousness. It's Galicia's low wages, low pensions and scarce opportunities for our youth. And all this, of course, is a fruit of the combined action of the European Union, the Spanish State and the Union, and it is the consequence of the role that Galicia has played in these three areas. It's a design in which Galicia, of course, is no more than a priority for policy of our resources; a Galicia that is no more than a priority for us to be a cheap hand-held farmer -- qualified, cheaper -- with a role of purely and hard colonized periphery; a role that the Galician Union and the People's Party have accepted with submission and subordination. We have, of course, a demographic problem, more motivated, of course, by the lack of economic opportunities. We have a Galician where, according to IGE data, there are thousands of women who claim that they would have more children if labor conditions were of greater stability and with better wages, where since the arrival of Nuñez Faixóo ten years ago there were thousands of young people who had to leave our country for lack of job expectations and where the productive base of the country was destroyed, with unemployment and precarious rates and with a lack of public services that facilitate reconciliation and allow for more or less decent life plans. Of course, economic concerns, fears of a more uncertain future in the possibility of carrying out worthwhile life projects, of being able to be emancipated, are at the root of the problem we have. It doesn't say BNG, we can refer to the Foesa report, recently published for Galicia, where it says that the past crisis has left thousands of people in such an unstable precarious situation that the crisis that is already entering will make these thousands of people in a situation of defence and deprotection and will leave them to the bird. What does the Foesa report say as well? That one in three people in the space of exclusion are entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs; that fantastic figure that they like to push and that they theoretically spend billions of euros from the State Government, from the European Union and from the United States Government. Then we see that they are the maximum exponents of precariousness and exclusion, because those projects of entrepreneurship at a very high percentage at only a few years were absolutely nowhere. Or the IGE, which says that the problems of the Greek homes to arrive at the end of the month are rising; that 42.37% have difficulties to arrive at the end of the month. Or unemployment data, which speaks of the destruction of 7,000 jobs in the month just ended in September. This is the situation that gives rise to this demographic crisis in our country, and the situation, as I said, that it is impossible to develop stable life projects. Why? Because the data is that emancipation is practically impossible, because our boys and girls would have to spend more than 70% of their wages on living. It's a situation of shared apartments, a situation of low work, high temporality, low wages, inaccessible housing or vulnerability, as they keep showing statistics. That is why the BNG will support this initiative, with which we would have more than nuances in many of the issues it raises, but what is clear is that initiatives must be put in place to stop this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u196	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left, Mrs Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We want to start this intervention by showing that we are also going to support this PSdeG initiative, because in the things that are proposed and proposed we agree. We simply want to make it clear that, in the same way that for us the problem of conciliation has many ways of resolving itself, by the People's Party model, which, in our opinion, involves, mainly, the lack of stable employment and the lack of employment opportunities, for us this problem or this demographic situation that has been taking place for many years, also has a basis or a root, which is the lack of stable employment, the lack of support by the Galician Union to generate employment and productive tissue, and also has to do with our production model. The abandonment and aging of rural has to do with this, with the productive model implemented in more than thirty years by the Government of the People's Party of Galicia; a productive model that creates little employment, generates little added value and does not complete the productive cycle in the country. There's no more to see the figures, the data is done. There are 54,000 employees less than when he arrived at the Government of the United States. He was unemployed, but no figures were recovered from his occupation, and yet he did lower the working population, the working-age population. But why is this? It happens mainly because there are no opportunities. In the forest the monoculture of the eucalyptus for paper pulp, and so Galicia, which makes 50% of the state quotas, represents only 15% of employment and invoicing. The failure of the agro-industrial policy of the Union causes lost jobs in the primary sector, in the agricultural sector, not to be absorbed by agro-industry, as has often been explained by comrade Antonio Sánchez in both this plenary and commission. And on the other hand, inaction in administrative management policies is also a disaster for rural people. Not implementing the region as a supranational administrative figure brings with it the inability of many municipalities to develop endogenous development policies, to provide quality services, which is what the Socialist Party proposes, or to plan mobility and urbanism, which is also part of what its initiative collects. So let's be frank: that often people don't live where we are born, in rural or semi-rural areas, as is the case of my generation in my village, Port do Son, is because we have no opportunities or jobs, and that's why we have to emigrate and move where you can have these opportunities. And from there, once you can choose where you have a stable job and where you can work, the next part comes in so that you can bet on rural areas and these areas that are suffering from a demographic decline, which are actually infrastructures, channels of communication, basic services. If there is no public transport of quality and guaranteed access, then, indeed, people have little reason to live there. Besides, it doesn't just happen in the rural narrow. If we see the lines of communication, without going any further, Santiago-Carballo -- that Carballo is not exactly rural -- for we will see that there are no ways of communication and that the Council of Galicia is completely over. People don't have public transportation to come to work, for example, the Compostela from Carballo, which are in the same province and are not far away. Then there are other issues as well: the lack of infrastructure not only of mobility, but also of basic services, such as schools, childhood schools, which the PP places on for its elimination in rural areas. A family that has a job in a rural or semi-urban area, whether it has small children and has no access to free children's schools, or who can have a content that they can access, if there are no schools, if they are punishing health services, primary care, the lack of pediatricians in rural or semi-urban areas, because they prefer to live in a place where they have that access. It's obvious. But what does the People's Party do? Punishing and eliminating services, because it costs money. It costs money; then, the People's Party has other priorities and the "Rural Government" eliminates rural services, basic services -- Internet access failure and broadband -- Let's remember that Galicia is just behind Extreme in bad quality and lack of access to the broadband and the internet. That's also one of the reasons why many new families don't like to live in these areas -- and end -- because it causes an unusual inequality among citizens. That's why we're never gonna be able to defend that. We therefore support these initiatives, we agree with them, although we believe that everything else is impossible without stable and quality employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u198	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Arias Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u199	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the PSOE brings here today an initiative that tells us about territorial rebalancing and demography; and it does on the same day as thousands of families from inside Galicia linked to Alcoa and the Bridges are on the verge of losing their jobs for the policies of Pedro Sánchez and with Mr. Caballero and the entire PSOE of Galicia. You've been touched by some paper, Mr. Leicega! [[Applause]] What a cardboard! [[Murmurs.]] It's the same day that still owes us 700 million euros that are from all the Greeks and the Greeks. The PSOE talks here about territorial rebalancing when Pedro Sánchez' budgets included 30% less investment in Galicia, while talking about 60% more for Catalonia. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, they're talking about territorial rebalancing here today! [[Applause]] Look, this initiative is pure socialist posture, pure socialist posture to which we have already been used! They go from election to election; they are continually in election and postureum. [[Murmurs.]] Well, look, if you want to solve demographic problems and territorial rebalancing problems, what you can't bring up is a four-point initiative and close it all up here, because you know that you're about to enter Parliament with a demographic impulse law that you've already told about your contributions through the Demographic Observatory, which you know and you can make contributions to. But, look, what happens is that the demographic problems we're talking about today have started over 40 years ago. You've been in the government, you've been able to give him some remedy! But no, it had to be the Government of Feijóo who had come with budgets — these — of positive discrimination measures for the provinces of Lugo and Ourense. [[Murmurs.]] It had to be the Government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo who had put Galicia on the map of the best community to have a family, if people voluntarily decide to have a child: Welcome card, Bono Concilia, Bono Careo, free children's schools for the second child... none of these left benches voted in favour of this measure at the DEA. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] They didn't vote for the Welcome Card to increase by 25% for rural families. And do you come here today to talk about territorial rebalancing to the Government that is putting in place throughout the rural Galician children's houses, the oldest houses and when in the coming year all the municipalities of Galicia are going to have at least one conciliation remedy for the first time in history, being a pioneer in Spain? Are you going to talk to us about rebalancing in rural areas in Galicia, a community that actually needs a tax advantage in rural areas? Of course you do, because living in the countryside is more difficult. That tax advantage makes 59,000 Greeks already benefit from zero taxes in rural areas, a single measure throughout Spain. There is also a measure of deduction for families who choose to live in rural areas and who want to rent a house in rural areas; families especially on Thursdays, disabled or numerous families. [[Murmurs.]] This measure will be extended to municipalities of less than 10,000 inhabitants next year. Ah! by the way, they've joined the rural community in recent years, 3,500 young people, for policies to help incorporate young people into the rural area of the Galician Union. And you were talking about connectivity. Do you know—Mr. Villares, you're from Lugo, of course, yes, like me— how much was the internet coverage rate when Feijó went to Junta? Less than 50% in the provinces of Lugo and Ourense. Do you know how much it is today? [[Murmurs.]] Almost 100%, and next year all Galicia will have 4G. [[Murmurs.]] Free public transport — yes, sir —... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u200	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u201	...all throughout Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u202	Quiet, please. We're already finishing up. Calm down! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u203	...for children under 21 years of age.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u204	Why don't you give it to the mayors of the big cities who also put free public transport for the boys on the urban bus? Why don't you ask? [[Murmurs.]] Let them do it! Well, some even put public transportation, right? [[Murmurs.]] Anyway, coming here today about demography from the PSOE is a little difficult, considering that in Madrid that ministry of what was going to be talked about, of what was so much talked about in the electoral campaign, it wasn't seen anywhere. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] But, of course, there was not a single measure to work in the national strategy, not a single measure! And when you talk about empty Spain, you have to say that empty has been in place for more than six months to deal with demographic policies in Spain. And do you come here today to talk about demography? Really! [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, please, for once, think a little more about Galicia and a little less about your party. [[Protests.]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u205	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u206	I propose today a pact — and I shall finish, Mr President — to you. The Galician Demographic Impulse Act is about to enter Parliament. If we want to be serious, if we really want to work for demography and territorial rebalancing, let's do it in that law. [[Murmurs.]] I'm sure we all have a lot to contribute and a lot to yield. We are willing to do this because Galicia deserves to have a law in this area with the greatest possible consensus...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u207	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u208	...a law that can remain in time. I think Galicia deserves it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u209	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u210	...and let's hope you're up to it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u211	Thank you, Mrs Arias. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u212	The Greeks...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u213	Thank you. Your time is up. [[Murmurs.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Fernández Leicega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u214	Well, I want to thank the other opposition groups for their support, even from positions that may be partially divergent. I believe that there is a need for a great deal of agreement on this subject, indeed, that the intervention of the People's Group indicates the difficulties in achieving this. I'm glad you haven't discussed anything I said here. That must mean that some things that are proposed and said from this rostrum make sense. [[Laughter]] Everything else is part of the pre-election political debate in which the People's Party wants to confuse everything, but this Parliament has an obligation — including the opposition — to make proposals and to tell the Government what the position of the other groups is. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] And you have clearly two options: either we take into account what is proposed on this initiative, which is that we meet the particular conditions that exist in wide areas of our territory to ensure that people there live a way of life according to the 21st century, or not. You have to make the decision, or you support this or not, because you have not tabled any amendments. Indeed, we would be in favour of discussing proposals that could join all groups, but they did not present any amendments! You come here from this rostrum, and you know who reminded me? Pablo Iglesias is not the last investment debate. Come at the last minute and tell us, listen, I propose a pact. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u215	Don't intervene because if you don't, we're complicated and we're here all afternoon. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! [[Murmurs.]] Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u216	Yeah, well, I don't have much time left.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u217	Go on. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u218	The problem with the law of demographic impulse to which you referred is that it comes after ten years of Mr. Feijóo's government, and comes after sixteen years of Mr. Fraga's government. Because in the four years of Mr. Touriño's government, there was a territorial balance plan that could not exercise its effects just because, as soon as Mr. Feijóo arrived, he eliminated it. And why did you replace him? I replaced it with plans. I pushed Lugo, Ourense, etc., from which you were never able to balance. They've never been able to balance! [[Murmurs.]] Never! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u219	Look, there are two areas in the province of Coruña that have serious difficulties as far as we're concerned, which are the Costa da Morte... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u220	It's okay. That's it!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u221	...and the Eume-Ortegal area. Well at the Eume-Ortegal you weren't able to bid a mile from the AG on the north coast, not a mile! So, of course, there's some problem with this. And so it's good to propose a pact now, but it would be a lot better if we reviewed propaganda policies on the demographic issue and went to the bottom. That's why that draft law is an invalid preliminary draft because it focuses on absolutely minor matters. I'm going to quote you one: publish each year the demographic balance by municipalities. Do we solve something like this? That's already known, it's on the website everywhere!, so we don't do anything. They're merely gestures to capture a headline, a minimum attention one day, but they don't affect the fundamental. We're talking about employment, we're talking about basic services, we're talking about infrastructure, we're talking about all these things and we can come to an agreement. But that law doesn't talk about any of this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u222	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u223	And at the same time, Mr. Feijóo, if he promotes decarbonization and says what is said in some places, he is simply disqualifying himself.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u224	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u225	They won't find us there.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u226	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u227	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u228	Thank you, Mr. Leicega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u229	Good afternoon. We resumed the session, in this case with the second item on the agenda. Mr. Economy, Employment and Industry's comprehensibility, on his own request, to account for the serious situation generated in Galicia in view of the central government policies that are causing the closure of the thermal power plants of the Bridges and Meirama and the need for a fair energy transition
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u230	To substance this appearance, the Councillor for Economics, Employment and Industry, Fr Francisco Conde, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u231	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, and today, especially to all the workers of the bridge thermal power plant, to the transporters, businessmen, trade unions, neighbors, to all those we want The Bridges and that we are looking for the best future for the region, good afternoon. I appear before this House, on my own request, given the state of industrial urgency in which Galicia finds itself after the latest developments resulting from the state's energy policy. I do it with the will to defend the jobs of thousands of Galicians and Greeks who are in danger today. I do so with the desire to reach consensus able to bring about a way out of this situation. I do this with the aim of preventing the Greek families from paying for the consequences of a wrong state policy. And I do it, finally, with the deep conviction that Galicia doesn't deserve this. It doesn't deserve a radical, unfair and disorderly energy transition that causes the closure of its industries, and it doesn't deserve to be played with the employment of more than a thousand families. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia is green, it has always been green and we want it to be greener and greener. Today we are the second most renewable energy community in Spain. For an idea, Galicia produces more renewable energy than all Belgium and as much as Holland. 86% of the energy we consume in Galicia also comes from renewable sources, four times as much as Catalonia, with 19%, and twice as much as Asturias, with 44%. Galicia works to finish 2020 with about 8,000 renewable megawatts, of which 4,000 will be wind. Galicia will host the second largest biomass plant in Spain, from the company Greenalia, which will enter into operation next year in Curtis, with an installed capacity of 50 megawatts. Endesa, for which we are here today, has been able to adapt, with extraordinary effort, to the demands set by Europe to maintain its production until 2030, with an investment of 217 million euros and to meet all the demands of emissions established by the European Union and approved in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, no administration has done and is doing more than the Galician Union to count on a greener Galician one. We have just approved the Strategy for Climate Change and Energy 2050, a roadmap that comes from consensus and participation to make Galicia a reference for a low-emission model, and we are fully convinced that this is the way. It already has the first Multiannual Integrated Plan for 2019-2023, with 170 measures and with an investment of more than 1,250 million euros. And since last year we've also had our 2018-2020 energy guidelines, where we tackle the transition challenge, we've supported projects that will allow us to create twelve thousand jobs and foster the development of renewable energy. Ladies and gentlemen, breaking up with the present without defining the future is not an option for Galicia. The Greeks and the Greeks want a fair transition, we want an orderly transition and we want a transition that doesn't put aside industry, comarcas and jobs. Dialogue and cooperation. With that constructive spirit, last week, as you all know, we attended the meeting convened by the Ministry for the Ecological Transition, which first brought together all the actors involved. There we come to the central, autonomous and local governments, the company and the workers. No doubt a good initiative, an initiative applauded by the Galician Council, but unfortunately, the meeting did not meet by far our expectations and the only conclusion we draw in the clear is that we are in the hands of a government without ideas and, above all, without planning. A socialist government which confirmed at its own meeting that it does not currently have any viable alternative to ensure the continuity of industrial activity and jobs at the Bridges. A socialist government that, as the minister himself acknowledged, had not anticipated anything at the closing stage of the thermal power stations. Last year they spoke of 2045, after 2030, even 2025, and now an immediate closure in 24 hours. It is true that the Government of Pedro Sánchez has subjected us to an energy chaos that is dragging our entire industry. Today the plant of the old Alcoa in Coruña has stopped producing primary aluminum and now workers live in tension, with a deadline of two years, while the Government continues without adopting measures such as the Intensive Consumer Statute. Today we continue to wait for the Government and Naturgy to present an industrial alternative to the closure of the Meirama power plant announced in January. Today, after demonizing the diesel and raising all the alarms, the automobile is still waiting for some state proposal to support the sector. And today we have just found, unfortunately, that the Minister of Industry has access to Galicia without any kind of proposal, without any kind of concretion. The central government had fifteen months to approve measures that reduce the energy bill to companies like Alcoa and it didn't. What if we ask the minister and the government to transfer the contents of that draft to us is that they can send us a message of peace and assurances for the future, but the minister refuses to give us the information about the contents of that draft. It's impossible, ladies and gentlemen, not to be worried about this picture. Who can explain to us that the government lives in parallel reality, disconnected from what happens around it? Last week they asked, once again, for time. We don't have time. What we need is an immediate and urgent response from the Government before it's too late. Galicia has already transferred to the Government its willingness and willingness to collaborate actively in the search for solutions, but always within the framework of a fair transition, and there is no excuse. The Government must react, leave behind its ideology and build a true common front, a country vision that allows us to identify initiatives that give a real response and a viable response to this situation. To support the continuity of jobs and industrial activity in Endesa is not confronted with the defense of this necessary fair and orderly transition that we are defending and pushing from Galicia. The European Commission itself believes that the transition should not result in any kind of damage and that it is the Member States who must take action to deal with this situation, and so are all countries doing at European Union level. Therefore, in view of the energy bill that the Government is presenting to us, Galicia defends that workers do not pay the consequences of the transition. In the face of the company's total paralysis, we defend its reactivation from Galicia while the mechanisms that guarantee its viability and employment are not found. The closure of the factory we all know that it would leave no alternatives to the workers and the county, and the company itself recognizes that the evidence being carried out with the forest biomass does not at this time have any viable alternatives. So right now -- that's the data, that's the reality -- it's not possible to replace the activity of the coal plant with biomass, and our responsibility is not to generate any sort of expectations that we can't fulfill. In this context, the most appropriate one seems to apply the common sense, i.e. activating urgent measures, through taxation, which allow immediate reactivating activity and maintaining employment in the Bridges; at the same time, working together in the search for real solutions and, at the moment, no longer using coal in the thermals and having a viable alternative that maintains industrial capacity and maintains jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Council of Galicia is clear on the road to that fair transition. In the short term, we need measures to ensure the reactivation of the thermal power plant, after more than five months of paralysing, until an alternative is found. The central government knows that it has competence to establish compensation mechanisms through taxation, as the rest of the countries are setting up at European level. So we're asking for the removal of the green penny to coal as we did last year with gas, the reduction of taxation to the production of the coal power generation or the demand for capacity payments for thermal power plants; and it is up to the Government to follow the measures that guarantee this immediate reactivation of the plant. Of course, and in parallel, we need to articulate new mechanisms that help us anticipate the future with planning. In this sense, the Galician Union asked the Government to put in place the announced Strategy of transition just 2019-2021; a Government initiative, within the framework of energy policy, for the transition-processed power plants so that measures that reactivate, from a socio-economic point of view, the areas where these power plants are installed can be found. A strategy that, when created, curiously, must have forgotten to remove the party t-shirt. The government itself acknowledged at the meeting that they are preparing and having conversations with all the affected autonomous communities, except Galicia and Andalusia; the question is why? Once again, the Government of Sánchez is leaving our community out of the way, without taking into account the two Greek thermal plants, is showing his lack of sensitivity to Galicia, he is discriminating Galicia by establishing communities of first and second, and that, of course, Galicia will not accept it. Since the Galician Union we have asked the Government to sign a partnership agreement with the Galician Union so that, like the rest of the autonomous communities, we can count on the aid for a fair transition strategy because the European Commission will implement specific mechanisms and funds from the year 2021 and Galicia wants to be with that fair transition, Galicia wants to be working with the Government, working with Endesa to precisely promote such initiatives. In addition, in the medium and long term, we also ask the Government to become part of the European Platform for Mining Regions in transition; a platform on which the Government had not included Galicia -- another curiosity that transfers the Government to us from Madrid -- a platform that will allow us to access European funds, and a proposal that the mayor himself of the Bridges has made in Brussels last week. All these proposals, ladies and gentlemen, they are not the fruit of improvisation, they are the result of a deep reflection made in collaboration with the various agents, and what we expect today is precisely that all parties in this House are in addition to these measures because they are measures that seem fair to us, they are measures that defend the position of workers, they are measures that defend Galicia's energy position and they are measures that defend our country's position from the point of view of industrial and energy positioning. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that today the parties of this chamber will appeal to us with the spirit of dialogue and the spirit of cooperation; the same spirit of dialogue and cooperation that yesterday demonstrated the President of the Galician Union and the mayor of the Bridges. Because here, ladies and gentlemen, there are no colours or political acronyms, here is a country view, a vision of the workers, a vision of our industrial policy. [[Applause]] That's why the question I'm going to transfer to you is whether you're going to align with the Bridges and with the Galician Union where you need to defend a fair and orderly transition that guarantees the viability and future of the region and the employment of the 750 families affected. I also ask you whether you will align yourself with the Bridges and the Galician Union that you need to look for another raw material that can be used at the plant to gradually reduce the tons of coal by other fuels; whether you will align with the Bridges and the Galician Union that you need to create a technical table between administrations and the company to validate the model change towards the energy transition. And what I'm transferring to them is if the rest of the parties in this House are not going to join that common front that has opened the Council of Bridges and the Council of Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen, I assure you that the Galician Union will not move a comma in its defense of the bridge power station. We have a firm position, and we have transferred an invitation to them to join this common position, because, by adding it all, we are sure to be stronger. [[Applause]] And, of course, from the first meeting in Galicia we will make available all the instruments of support that are in our hands, in our powers, as the Autonomous Community. Investments in R & D+i to implement measures that promote innovation; financing to promote credit lines that facilitate project development; and labour-related measures to provide the necessary training to enable qualified staff from an industrial point of view. The Galician Union, ladies and gentlemen, is optimistic and, above all, constructive because we are not asking for impossible. The only thing Galicia demands is to be able to compete with the same playing rules as our neighbours in Europe. We're not asking anymore, we're not asking anymore. The energy transition is a path that we all have to go along together. It's not a career that we should win. Spain will not receive any medal for being the first to close all its power stations. If so, the only thing we're going to be first in is the dismantling of our energy sector and the destruction of employment, and the Galician case is a great incoherence. Galicia, in recent years, has been highly surplus in the production of energy through its thermal power plants, we all know; in fact, it exported a third of its production last year. Ladies and gentlemen, without The Bridges and without Meirama Galicia, it will become a weakness today. Conclusion: we import energy from countries such as Morocco, which use the same technology that the Government is committed to eliminating here but without being subjected to any kind of environmental control, as the European Union marks. Let's take a look at Europe. Eight countries have the focus in 2030, with a specific transition plan of eleven years to eliminate coal. I speak of countries such as Austria, Denmark, Finland, France, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands and Portugal; eleven years to eliminate coal production. Two other countries, the United Kingdom and Sweden, will gradually eliminate coal without specific deadlines. And eleven other countries, including Germany, Greece, Croatia, Poland or Hungary, will not give up on the use of coal before 2030. In the case of Germany, besides, it has nuclear power plants, and it will budget 45,000 million euros to deploy clean energy that spins its industry. Can anyone from the Government in Madrid explain to me why Spain has to close all its thermal power stations, the counter-current of what the countries of the European Union are doing? Can anyone explain it? This, ladies and gentlemen, is not a fair transition and, above all, is not a solution for all. They're giving us a problem for a part of the population, and they're generating a problem in Galicia where there's no problem in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. If the rest of Europe is betting on keeping its thermal power plants active while working on a solution for the future, and if Endesa has made investments for more than 200 million euros to be a approved power plant, making an adaptation that guarantees its continuity, why is this Socialist Party's concern of closing thermal power stations like the Bridges and of leading affected areas to irrecoverable industrial shutdown? Why? Who will guarantee a stable electric price when we become dependent solely on renewable energy and natural gas? Who will guarantee it so that it can compete on equal terms, from the point of view of the electric price, with the rest of the European countries? Ladies and gentlemen, the Government has in its hands to put in place measures, immediately, that give us more time to Endesa and administrations to prepare the transition. That's what we asked for. We ask for it on behalf of the thousand families whose future depends on what we now decide. Just like Endesa has his responsibility, too. [[Applause]] Endesa has the responsibility to reactivate activity while looking for alternatives to use coal. Ladies and gentlemen, if there's a central with a future in Spain, that's The Bridges; if there's a region committed to its central, that's The Bridges; if there's workers in Spain who don't give up, that's the center of the Bridges, the auxiliary companies and the transporters; and if there's an autonomous community in Spain that's going to defend up to the last consequences of their thermal power stations, that's Galicia. Galicia doesn't give up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u232	Thank you, Counselor. We start with the turn of parliamentary groups. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u233	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, too, to all the people who are in the rostrum. Mr Counsellor, indeed, fair transition, of course. But the fair transition is the one that doesn't give territory to the big oligopolis electricians and to the companies of friends, as if Galicia were the American West of the early 19th century. I don't know if you'll know how to get an wind farm license. One arrives with the flag, puts the flag there, presents a project that does engineering in Madrid without even looking at the territory... yes, yes, yes, I'll pass the reports to them, sell us at 2,500 euros. And that's forever, it develops the park or not, because most people don't even plan to develop the park, what they think is to sell it to someone else to develop it and make money just by speculating. What wealth or benefit do these wind farms contribute to the citizenship of the affected territories? What wealth do they bring to Galicia? If things were done right and thinking about citizenship, Galicia would have a very powerful renewable energy industry and could finance that fair transition. And we don't have time, you said, of course not! We haven't had it since the mines were closed that fed the power stations. And what have you done these 12 years? Nothing. What did the mayor of the Bridge do? I don't know. You were talking about that in Germany, Poland and other countries they would not immediately close them. But he hid a data: all those power stations have a mine there, at the foot of the power station. Sure, it's different. If in 2007 it had been thought that all the power stations that don't have mine next door were closing, it would start working. The proposals you keep making I thought they'd already be exhausted and given back, like the one that happened the other day, that a 1,400 megawatt plant with forest biomass was going to be fed. The occurrence. [[Interruptions.]] No, you didn't say it, Mr. Tellado said it the other day and a lot of people said it too... then I know, a week later the calculations were made and changed their mind. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But pretend to pay Endesa for greenhouse gas emissions by suppressing ecological taxation, or for being stopped. People talk about capacity payments and they don't know what that is. The payment for capacity is to pay for being stopped. in which it benefits the industrial sectors of the Bridges, trucks etc.Is that what you're talking about? Nothing, it's giving Endesa money! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And the ideas that continue to be developed, that with biofuels... but who in his judgment, if you know a little about the reality of what is a power plant of 1,400 megawatts, can you think that with remnants of oil or can you feed a power plant like this? You could feed a 10 megawatt power station, 30, maybe in a limited case, 50 megawatts, but 1,400 megawatts, that's cheating! The truth is that in the past we were very surprised by the PSdEG's favourable vote on this proposal that was made by PP, and we were much more surprised by the BNG's favorable vote, we don't really understand it. And don't come to us with Endesa making a great effort, 200 million! It can be amortized in very little time, with a little that works at the central in the next few years, after taking thousands of millions of a mine that was owned by the neighbours of the Bridges. But what effort? Actually, you said there were no colors. No, no colors, no electoral calculations. The embrace of Mr. Feijóo's last bear to the mayor of the Bridges should shame many people, especially the lords of the Socialist Party. Really, don't go that way, don't go that way. Don't go that way, don't take part in that escalation of deception! Do you really think that a power plant that emits 30% of Galicia's greenhouse gases, one of the 20 most polluting in Europe, without coal mine to feed it and having to bring Indonesia's coal, South Africa, etc., have a long future? They know not, and they've known it for a long time, since the mine closed, but they haven't said anything. Twelve years without doing anything! You speak of other European countries, and I have already told you about the situation of these power stations. And it's not true that Germany doesn't start. In the year 2022 they're going to start closing down power stations, of the 86 they have, that's the difference! We've been warning him for a long time, and they've always called us alarmists, and now we see what reality is. They come here to lie to the neighbors and neighbors of the Bridge for a handful of votes. Let's see what they say from November 11th! Because, of course, they now give truckers four weeks of work, they look for other alternatives, they tell stories... to see that they say from November 11th!, instead of working on barley in which it could really guarantee the future of the Ferrolterra-Eume-Ortegal Bridges, Cerceda-Ordes, Melide-Arzúa Land etc. We have to work on what is being done in most European regions affected by the energy transition, which are showing, with the creation of more and more jobs and quality, that working for the future is working for the ecological and energy transition. The way is the Green New Deal in Galicia, that's the way. We're late, but there's still time to do it if it starts now. Above all, there are important European budgets, and predictably also state budgets, to achieve this. Look at the example of Germany — you know — EUR 50,000 million a year; or the example of France, EUR 45,000 million a year. And what is it that responds to the governments of the European regions who want to be at the forefront of the energy transition and thus be the recipient of these massive investments? Well, they're on that line, because they know they could be realizable in a short and medium term. In the past Committee on Industry, and in the face of a long amendment I made to give ideas about the development of the automotive sector of the future, the spokesperson for the People's Group, Mr. Tellado, said with a lot of irony and joy: "it's that you have solutions for everything." No, the truth is, I don't have solutions for everything, I make proposals, but I'd like you to make others that would prove my occurrences. But no, the proposals are to give Endesa money for polluting and presenting initiatives that are unrealistic, and you know that. Even if they think they're occurrences, I'm going to tell them how long I'm left, and if not in the replica, what we're going to have to do according to our criteria, which they can beat. The first one already knows, because it seems that now they're paying attention to us after saying that developing the map of Galicia's sustainable transition with the participation of Greek societies was an occurrence, and it seems they're already changing their mind. Put in place the immediate application of these sustainable transition development plans in the district of Pontes and Cerceda. And above all, please do it with the Greek universities -- with the participation of these people who are in the gallery today -- with the social associations, with the unions, with the municipalities; and don't take care of some of the friendly consultants that they have, who make very nice PowerPoints but have no concrete goals and evaluables or strategy. Then what about spending the money? The money will come — it won't give me time, because I also had the proposal for how all this was going to be financed — and you know it: the tens of millions who stopped spending on Plan Miner because Mr Rajoy blocked them, the new million euros that were established in the 2018 budgets — Mr Rajoy, by the way — who are at the disposal of the hundred and eight of the budgets and who were not implemented at all — over tens of millions of euros —. So all of that, more than anything else: participation in CO2 rights income. Yes, the rest of the Spanish citizenship that benefited from the goods that were taken from the district of Pontes and Meirama, which took the energy so that the industry could be developed in Madrid, Catalonia and the Basque Country now have to respond. And with the EUR 1 billion for the CO2 rights year, part of that money would have to return as solidarity with the areas that made it possible to industrialize all those regions and all those cities. Where to start? Obviously, by training, because investing more in infrastructure — in bridges, on other roads and so on — makes no sense. Companies are currently looking for vocational training, which are looking for trained, trained and productive workers. Trained in what's going to be the new energy model, what's going to be the new production model, and communication infrastructure. [[Murmurs.]] Businesses want to get to a place and not to put an industrial park on them, that's what they'll do, to make a ship is very easy, the hard thing is to have people trained, to have telecommunications, is to promote local activities that are also dislocationable, to recognize the landscape as a fundamental element. In the case of Bridges, you have to put value to that ecological value that is where the debris was.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u234	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u235	From there you could generate many environmental, tourist, leisure and sports jobs... I'm left with 17 proposals to tell them, but as I don't have time, I'm just going to summarize. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and the Government of Galicia, bet that it can really have a future for these comarcas and don't go back to the past. They don't want to give money back to the electricians, to an Italian company that will only take the money to Italy and do nothing on the Bridges. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u236	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u237	Good afternoon. I also wanted to welcome our guests and guests, though I have to regret an absence. The fact is that it is surprising that, in the face of this so-called industrial crisis of which you have spoken, Mr. Conde, today does not accompany us today, the President of the Galician Union, as we demand from the parliamentary groups. [[Applause]] He's in Alcoa doing I don't know what, because Mr. Conde himself said... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u238	Quiet, please. Calm down. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The subject is interesting. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Calm down. Mrs. Presas, whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u239	Don't be angry! He was Mr. Economics, Employment and Industry Counsellor who said they were leaving this morning without an alternative for Alcoa-San Cibrao, assuming the responsibility and failure of his president!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u240	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u241	Mr. Conde said it, so......if you want, interrupt him who has unlimited time; but I, who have only ten minutes, would be grateful if you could explain our position. [[Murmurs.]] We would be grateful if you were here President of Galicia because, if you come with your little mouth to offer us consensus, you should really be here to listen to what we have to say from an industrial crisis that is profound. Meirama and The Bridges have a huge problem, yes, but there are many other issues that we would have to be talking about seriously in this Parliament: of the two Alcoas; of what happens in the naval with Vulcano, with Barreras; of what is happening today even in the auxiliary ships of Vigo and the Ferrol naval, too; of what is happening with Ferroatlantica, where it has a direct hand to the Junta de Galicia and today afternoon they will be re-focused the workers and workers. Or we should also talk about the death of a historical company like Isowat thanks to the futility of the Galician Union. Of all those issues, I should be talking about here today, Mr President of the Galician Union. [[Applause]] In any case, you gave us a nice pre-election speech, Mr. Count. It's a shame they didn't take this second round to make it to you candidate, but there's no hope, that there's already another former candidate industry counselor. He came here to tell us that we had to abandon the political and other colors. I, if you want, within an hour and peak we make blurry and new account, but the truth is, first we have to ask ourselves a question. We have to ask ourselves how we got here, how we came to a crisis of this silence and with so many branches. And there neither Union nor State are innocent; neither the People's Party nor the Socialist Party are innocent. And that's what we're going to remember first, before we talk about alternatives, Mr. Count. [[Applause]] Because we can't come to talk about the bridge situation and ignore that Endesa was on his day a public company and that today is a public but Italian company, and that's thanks to the role of gentlemen like Mr. González or Mr. Aznar, who gave the final stockpiling to the privatization of an energy sector. [[Applause]] This weekend I read startled as the mayor of the Bridges recognized that it was a historic mistake to privatize. I welcome him, I hope other positions of the Socialist Party and the People's Party will follow him; but the fact is that with the passage of time we have seen that this privatization of the energy sector is worth it. I see a member of the People's Party, but he will be apologizing more because, look, this has been worth it to us: Felipe González, 127,000 euros of what, by Naturgy, which is going to close the doors in Galicia. "Indesa hires Aznar as an advisor for 200,000 euros." This is the shame, gentlemen of the People's Party! and not that you have to hear it here. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] The question is who paid for this process. Who pays? We're paying for it now, because today Endesa is worried about a chicken that happens on the Bridges, just like Naturgy cares about a chicken that happens in Meirama. We have to bear those consequences now and we see that the only thing that matters to these companies is the rules of the market and their benefits. That's why Endesa has just come forward with the closure, with the consequences of issues such as the rise of CO2. And that's why we see Endesa giving other stockpilings as well as social benefits, which we also debate in this Parliament, and to them and to them, to the passive workers and workers of Endesa, we want to send them our support today. In short, we have to put black on white as we get to this situation. One factor is that privatization of the energy sector. Another factor is the lack of forecast of the state and also of the Galician Union, and I say here again -- I don't know if they have to read again the articles of the Autonomy Statute, Mr. Conde -- which have competences in economic planning and industrial planning, but you've been living all this time on short-pracism, you've been in the Galician Union for a decade now, the Emissions Directive has not been born yesterday, and today you don't have a roadmap beyond the issues that we've already voted on in this Parliament or in generalities, because, among other things, this country -- even though we've asked for it again and again since the BNG -- doesn't have a yellow plan for the energy transition. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] That doesn't exist because you didn't do your homework. And I don't come to sell consensus and participation in a strategy against climate change that got out of the hat last Thursday at the board of assembly; don't talk about participation when parliamentary groups haven't been consulted. Therefore, the privatization of the energy sector and the lack of predictiveness of the Union and the state took us all the way here, but also an energy model to say and remember that it was imposed, colonial and alien to our needs. [[Applause]] I want to remember here that there are two thermal power stations in this country, not because they grew up as spores, but because it was the decision of post-franquism to put them in this territory and specialize in energy production with nothing in return, it was a political decision. And you guys at this time have been convolved with that. It was the People's Party that regulated the electricity sector in the Spanish state, and it was the People's Party in the Union and the State, with the assistance of the Socialist Party in the state, who did not develop an industrial policy in this country. So today, we are experiencing these consequences as these companies see how their profits increased: Endesa, ordinary net profit of 1,500 million in 2018. We could also give Naturgy's data, which is offering a ridiculous investment plan of 80 million in compensation. So we say, yes, we have to demand compensation from companies, but we have to do it with the big mouth, Mr. Count, and there they will be next to us when they decide to do it. I would also like to comment on another issue that seems to us to be decisive and that we have to put on the table, and that is how we have come to this point, is the aggravating we have given this country in recent years as regards economic resources. Because this debate on the action of coal is not new; the debate on the consequences for the Galician comarcas in which there has been extraction of coal is not new, and I want to recall that it was Mr Rajoy who in 2011 failed to comply with 50% of the Coal Plan. I want to remember that in 2012 it followed this way, I want to remember that in the 2013-2018 Coal Plan Galicia was excluded by a political decision, assuming a theft of resources that could be invested in industrial development. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Of course, now we've come here in the rain of ideas! Come on, how can we replace thermal in the bridges for other issues? Look, it's not serious! We are talking about a council that, among other things, has a very important problem of lack of industrial land, which has for years lost resources and economic resources because they didn't leave each other, from Madrid, claiming them and that they could invest in such matters. We must therefore remember these issues. Because it would not be indifferent for the Bridges to have a higher degree of development in another type of industry than energy; it would not be indifferent to confront this situation. So, all of a sudden, the People's Party now discovers the State's discrimination with Galicia and is willing to fight for correction, it seems great to us. [[Applause]] We're going to be there, Mr. Count, we're going to be there, but at least you should apologize for the silences this past decade. And you said, Galicia doesn't deserve this. Indeed, we agree. So, if you want, we make a blur and a new story about who's responsible for getting to this situation, but of course, it doesn't look bad when the only thing you're offering today is the same framed speech these last few weeks, in a precipitate electoral mode. It must be said that we arrive here with weaknesses by a centralist policy, with an energy model that has not been evaluated for our needs and also for its low political weight. It doesn't realize that every time you remind us that you've been waiting for fifteen months for a statute of electrointensives, that says a lot -- and very bad -- of the central government, there we agree, but also of your little political weight. That we have been waiting for three months for you, who as a German Government has met with the three trade unions in this country, to get a meeting with Endesa, he also says a lot of his little political weight as Junta de Galicia! [[Applause]] So put your batteries on! In any case, we wanted to talk about these issues from the past to see how we came to this point and to learn from mistakes, but today we have to talk about the future, because all the people who are awaiting this debate must offer them an alternative for the future. And we've got a hand there for dialogue, for need and for an alternative. I'm making a very specific proposal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u242	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u243	I'm done, but let me explain, that I wasn't allowed to talk before...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u244	Don't worry, you have another second shift to explain what it takes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u245	We want to ask you a very clear question, Mr. Count. We propose that, since we do not take ourselves seriously at this state table, let's do a work table here, in Galicia, with the social sectors involved. We decided from The Bridges what the future of the Bridges is. Are you willing or not willing to open that forum and move a unanimous position from Galicia to Central Government, demanding those issues that are clear to us? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u246	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. Time's up. Mr Sánchez García has the floor for the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u247	Good afternoon. And good afternoon also to all the people who came from the Bridges following this debate. Counsellor, aligning with the bridges is not to abandon the necessary forecast and planning of a government. Aligning with the Bridges is not privatizing Endesa at the price of a friend and leaving in his hands the future of a municipality and the workers. Aligning with the Bridges is not to come here to give what seemed to be more an electoral rally than the appearance of a responsible government counselor; a myth that tries to divert attention from everything you haven't done in recent years. That over-acting comes from the little prior action you've had on this matter, Counselor. I say, Mrs Presas, Article 30.1 of the Statute of Galicia: Exclusive competences in planning the economic activity of Galicia. And the counsellor came here to blame all the others and took no responsibility for the situation of the German Government. And when faced with such a transcendent subject as this one puts the blame on everyone else, he implicitly recognizes his futility as ruler. [[Applause]] Preventing, planning and acting according to the general interest are the functions and obligations of a government, and none of that has been done by you. What we would like to know today is why its Government in a global context of closing coal thermals, with agreements at European and global level for decarbonization, for the fight against climate change, or in the 2017 reform of the CO2 emissions market, had not provided for a transitional timetable. Because you've come here now to talk about the fair transition, but you've never talked about the fair transition before. We do speak of that transition, and I ask, how would The Bridges or Cerceda be better today? Do you have an orderly schedule of what to do in the next few years so that workers are not affected by this transition, or with a government that has not done the duties and has not planned anything, Counselor? [[Applause]] There are already framework guidelines for the International Labour Organization since 2015, which indicate that special attention must be paid to areas where there is an industrial monoculture, such as Cerceda and, to a greater extent, The Bridges. To do this, we need to take action, involving social agents and all administrations, so that this change is not harmful, but an opportunity for these societies. You, on the other hand, have practiced lust and are now inclined to divert attention. They constantly repeat that Endesa has committed herself to the investments necessary to adapt to the European directive on polluting emissions, and it is true, but you know, and Mr Feijóo knows that it has nothing to do with greenhouse gas emissions, and still yesterday Mr Feijóo has tried to confuse this issue. Endesa's adaptations were for sulphur dioxide or nitrogen dioxide, not for CO2. So we ask ourselves, whether you now accuse the Government of the State of deciding to close the bridges - which is not true, even if the Socialist Government of Pedro Sánchez has the same responsibility or more than the Government of Galicia because of the same lack of foresight and planning - what is the matter with Cerceda and Naturgy, who has already announced that he will close? Where is that transition plan for Cerceda, Counsellor? We don't have it either. The responsibility of the Socialist Government is similar to that of him: he has not worked in this transition to the Bridges, to formulate in a participatory way with the administrations and social agents, citizenship itself, an economic and social horizon, as he has for years been working on other levels, in other countries and even in other autonomous communities in the Spanish State, which are in better condition to cope with this transition. Because here what can be perpetrated now is the end of the policy by Endesa, I think he counted on his collaboration, because it is recognized that The Bridges was key to the enormous evolution of Endesa's business in the Spanish state, an Endesa that in the first half of 2019 had 10,000 million revenues and that it distributes billions of euros of dividends every year, decapitalizing the company you privatized. And that end of the policeman can't be allowed now, leaving the company, the one that did so much business with natural resources and the force of work in Galicia, if it goes away with rosettes. Where were you when the River Agreement was approved, when the Paris Agreement was approved, when the reform of the emission rights market was made? How could you not have taken any initiative already to start having a safety net for the Bridges? And you come here now with no concrete measures, but to give Endesa millions of euros, which don't even guarantee work. You're so worried and so sensitive to people who haven't given up here or even a solution for truck drivers who haven't entered anything for five months, after making the investments that demanded them Endesa and who left them at the stake. You don't care about truck drivers. How many millions have to pay you via electricity bill or via tax exemptions to Endesa to keep it working? You know that? Because in one year, the payment of 5 or 6 tonne allowances, to 23,78 euros that are now, means, in an industry that emits seven million tons of CO2, 150 million euros. Your solution is to give Endesa 150 million euros without guarantee of work? Without guaranteeing an economic horizon with a plan for the future? Is that the solution of the German Government? Because the Government of the State obviously hasn't worked on that transition plan, and it's a mistake and we'll always criticize it, but did you guys do that? What did they ask the State Government at that meeting a few days ago when they sat with them? Balearics. Balearics approved an energy transition plan. He agreed with the State Government and Endessa on the closure of Es Murterar's thermal by the year 2025, without anyone going to the street and with an industrial and economic conversion plan. Basque did it before 2014. Those are governments that plan, plan and act according to the general interest. Yours now is to come and turn your attention away and blame the socialist government exclusively. So what you were doing when you were known to think tank like Carbon Tracker at the beginning of 2018 was drawing an immediate future in which at the end of that year the price of the ton of carbon dioxide would be at 25 euros and would continue to grow; for the period between 2019 and 2023 will be between 35 and 40, which will accelerate the transition from coal to natural gas, as happened in the United Kingdom thanks to measures approved by the government of Teresa Mail. In a recent report, Carbon Tracker identified four countries in which a rapid transition from coal to gas can occur, which was an important savings in greenhouse gas emissions over the next five years. This is Germany, Italy, Spain and the Netherlands. What was his government doing while these signs were being given so worrying in recent years? Nothing! He didn't do anything, Counselor, and that's his neglect. You don't argue here, and for the first time here you haven't argued that this transition is inevitable, after we've been thinking about it here since 2013, and if we've thrown it up. You didn't argue that transition is necessary. But what we say is that, if the transition is inevitable, what we have to choose is that the leadership of Endesa and the electric oligopolie or that you lead it, the Greek Government, the public with the citizenship of the Bridges and with the Greek citizenship. And we bet the leader is in the public, he's in citizenship, and we don't go behind the decisions of a multinational, Italian public company, that the only thing he's going to make his decisions is for his results, for his benefits. That's what you failed here! Now we have to go back to a company's decision on the market situation, its economic benefits, and the institutions, the public administrations, neither the Galician Union nor the Government of the State, have the duties done, because you have always been more concerned about favouring Endesa than the Endesa workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u248	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u249	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. I would also like to greet our guests today, essentially I suppose affected by the announcement of this possible closure of Endesa in the Bridges. As you see, Counselor, today we could do a plenary today just to talk about the serious situation of industry in Galicia. Counselor, you've been managing the Greek Government for ten years continuously, in which, when the news is good, you've been adding to taking pictures and boasting triumphs, but when there's problems and things go wrong, you put the fan and the guilt in this case, and in almost everyone, it's Pedro Sánchez. [[Applause]] Counselor, sadly this is an excuse for a country problem. You're the government of photography. Stop looking for culprits, seek solutions, which they have the responsibility to rule this country. You've been ruling this country continuously for ten years, you should know the industrial reality of Galicia and you should also plan for Galicia's industrial future. See, in May 2016 you approved in this House the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020, and contemplated challenge number 7 to lower greenhouse gas emissions by 35% compared to 2005. What measures were they planning to conquer this object? Because you wouldn't want to tell me that with the help of 1,000 or 1,500 euros for the winding up of vehicles and for the change of windows they intended to conquer this fall in greenhouse gas emissions, would you not, Counsellor? What is the energy model of the Galician Union? Can you answer me? Where are the Galician Energy Guidelines published that were presented to you in this House in April 2018, and you yourself announced a smart transition to a new sustainable energy model and the creation of twelve thousand jobs? Tell me what they're up to, where are they? Why don't they publish them? Did they see in these guidelines a fair energy transition to the Meirama thermal power plant and the Bridge thermal power plant? Answer me, please. You won't tell me you didn't know the Greek Government that these two companies were the ones that most greenhouse gas emissions had in our country. Isn't that right, Counselor? I'm sure not. Admit it, Counsellor, the Meirama thermal power plant and the Bridge thermal power plant have never been on the political agenda of the Galician Union ruled by Mr. Núñez Feijóo, never! [[Murmurs.]] Counsellor, it is at least curious that forty-one months after approving the Strategic Plan of Galicia and eighteen months after the presentation of these invisible and non-existent Energy Guidelines of Galicia, when the thermal power plant of Meirama announces its closure and when the thermal power plant of the Bridges proposes its discontinuity, the Board of Galicia, on Thursday's board, approves the Strategy of Climate Change and Energy 2050, where the challenge of the Greek Government is to reduce the energy bill and raise awareness of the need to bring together efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to the environment. The truth is, it turns out pretty curious. By the way, is this strategy published and these 170 measures that you announce? Or will it again be an act of publicity and propaganda to those who have become used to us, asking us for an act of faith in opposition and citizenship? [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Counsellor, it is also true that the German Government defends continuing to burn coal at the thermal power plant, but at the same time in the last supply contract approved by the Industry Council, it excludes coal as a primary source of energy. Tell us, too, please, how to conjugate this. Counsellor, I will remind you of the Government's contribution to the fair transition to climate change. In 2012, no more access to the Government was given to Mr. Mariano Rajoy's pen 72 million euros for Galicia corresponding to the Miner Funds, 72 million euros which were fundamental to the economic recovery and social recovery of the areas affected by mining activity in Cerceda, the Bridges and its surroundings. At that moment the government of the photograph, as Mr. Pedro Sánchez was not in the central government, the Government Feijóo shut up. In 2014, a royal decree of aid for infrastructure projects and restoration of degraded areas was adopted because of mining activities involving the performance of sixteen Greek municipalities. At that time, the Government of Feijóo did no management for the inclusion of these sixteen councils contemplated in the royal decree, and as Mr. Pedro Sánchez was not in the central government, the Government of Feijóo also closed. On 31 January 2015, the Natural-Fenosa Gas Council committed itself to making an investment of nearly 100 million euros to adapt Meirama's thermal power plant to European environmental requirements and to continue operating beyond 2020. So, President Feijóo and you too, Counselor, were photographed in a rather propaganda act in the City of Culture with Salvador Gabarró, who was then the president of Naturgy. Four years later, when Naturgy announced the closure in 2020 of the Meirama thermal power plant, which affected about one hundred and eighty jobs, then President Feijóo, instead of negotiating with Naturgy the fulfilment of this commitment reached in 2015 in that propaganda act, taking into account the corporate relations that the Galician Union has with Naturgy, with which it shares shares shares in several companies, finds the perfect excuse: Pedro Sánchez is guilty of the closure of the Meirama thermal power plant. [[Applause]] Counsellor, do you already have the closure plan for the Meirama thermal power plant? You seem a little nervous, Mr. President, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you already have the plan to close the Meirama thermal power plant? [[Murmurs.]] Counsellor, Naturgy has to know that, after so many years of exploiting a natural resource, he has obligations to the social fabric of Cerceda and its region. And the Galician Union must exercise its exclusive competence in promoting and planning economic activity, they exercise your exclusive competence! The same is true of the thermal power plant at the Bridges, the largest thermoelectric group with coal from Spain, with an installed power of 2,400 megawatts and which employs about 70 people. In March 2018 Endesa presents its 2018-2021 Strategic Plan, with a roadmap that included adaptation work to the European Union Industrial Emissions Directive, for which it made an investment of 217 million euros with the aim of reducing by 80% the sulphur dioxide emissions and by 60% the nitrogen oxide emissions. This strategic plan also included indications to coal transport operators to adapt their vehicles, which I assumed was very important investments, and in many cases to go to credit. The government of the photograph then presented in this House three auto-bomb initiatives, in which they asked themselves what valuation makes the Government of Greece on the investment of 218 million euros announced by Endesa at the bridge center. Last December 27, at the Endesa Board of Directors, the National Securities Market Commission was informed of the promotion of the discontinuity of production at its thermal power stations in the bridges and the coast of Almería; a business decision that answers fundamentally — and you know it perfectly — to the recent evolution of the prices of carbon dioxide emissions rights, which were fired at only 50% in the last year, thereby undermining the profitability of the company's business. Endesa makes a decision that affects the staff of the central, auxiliary companies, the traffic of the port of Ferrol; therefore, it affects the life of a whole territory and affects, Mr. Counsellor, the economy of our country. You know perfectly well that the solution is not simple. And you know perfectly well that this is not just a Galician problem, you know that the closure of coal plants in Spain is also taking place, and you also know that the closure of coal plants across Europe is taking place. He knows perfectly well that the achievement of a more or less satisfactory solution will depend on the unequivocal union of all the actors involved: the Ministry for the Ecological Transition, the Galician Union, Endesa...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u250	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u251	...the Council of Bridges, representatives of workers, transporters and auxiliary companies. There you will always have them, always!... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u252	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u253	...because the Socialist Parliamentary Group's action for the defence of interests...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u254	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u255	...of the thermal power plant in Meirama and for the defense of the interests of the thermal power plant...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u256	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u257	...of the bridges was always unequivocal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u258	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u259	...and of the future.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u260	Thank you very much. You have the floor, by the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Tellado Filgueira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u261	Thank you, President. I want to begin by greeting the neighbours of the Bridges who accompany us in this debate and to apologize for what they have just heard, because of the lack of absolute sensitivity of the groups on the left that make up this House with the situation that a whole town lives, a whole territory, and there are people who are worried about their jobs. There are certain things that are very hard to hear and which I find especially bloody because I'm from this neighborhood. So it's not worth everything, and you can't argue with certain issues because it's to miss about the neighbours of the Bridges. Look, we've been in the bridges for over 40 years with a thermal power plant that's been a source of wealth and employment for all these comarcas. A source of wealth and employment! The Town Hall of Bridges is the second municipality... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u262	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u263	...from Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u264	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u265	...with the rent per capita...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u266	I'm sorry. Mr. Tellado, I'm sorry. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry. I remind people in the audience that they can't intervene or make any kind of comment, otherwise they'll be evicted from the rostrum. So, please, silence if you want to stay in the rostrum.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u267	The Bridges is the second municipality of Galicia with the highest per capita income. The municipality of the Bridges is the municipality with the highest average pension in all of Galicia. And thanks to what? Thanks to a thermal power plant that has been a source of wealth and employment. Madam Presas, the president of the Galician Union is not here because he's in Alcoa, meeting with the director of Alcoa España. He's in Alcoa, so he's not here, but he's the branch advisor. Do you know where the Minister of Industry will soon be, accompanied by Mr. Gonzalo Caballero? In the Town Hall of Lugo, making a rally in the Town Hall and signing in the golden book. That's the reality! [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u268	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u269	Don't worry about us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u270	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u271	Get rid of us!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u272	Silence! [[Murmurs.]] No, no, sorry... silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u273	Madam Presas, the strategy for climate change in the Union...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u274	Quiet. Silence! It was the same in the previous one. Quiet. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u275	...which was approved last week the public exhibition went out on March 8 at the CEO and also at the Galician board transparency portal. What did the BNG do? Did you present any kind of input and claim? I'll tell you, no! No, that's the reality. [[Murmurs.]] So if they didn't make any contributions, it was because they didn't want to. [[Murmurs.]] I have to counter certain criticisms that are frankly regrettable. It turns out, Counsellor, that if you criticize the Galician Council not being prepared in 2019 for what had to happen in the year 2045, that's the reality! The lack of foresight that this government is accused of is because it has no solutions in 2019 for what was going to happen in the year 2045, which when the socialists arrived in advance of the year 2030 and now it turns out that they rush for it to happen in 2020, that is the reality! [[Applause]] Therefore, listening to lessons from whom you have generated this problem, frankly it is regrettable. We join the counsellor's speech. Galicia does not surrender, and the districts of Ferrolterra, Eume and Ortegal neither. I want to make the story of the facts so we don't forget why we're in this situation and why we're talking about what we're talking about today. At the end of 2016, Endesa announced an investment of 217 million euros at the bridge center to expand its useful life to the year 2045 — I insist, 2045 —. So, of course, we were adapting to comply with the Community directives, not only those that are in force now, but those that will be in force in the coming years; and could extend their useful life to the year 2045. In March 2018, the Advisory Council for the Ecological Transition of the Economics, of the Socialist Party — led by a lady who then knew hardly anyone, called Teresa Rivera — presents a document in which it is said clearly that these power stations were to close in 2025, in June of that same year, and after the march of censorship, Pedro Sánchez names that lady — who fortunately knew no one and now knows too many people — the minister of ecological intransigence; not of the Ecological Transition, no, not of intransigence. [[Murmurs.]] Furthermore, he did not hide his intentions, because in the first interviews he spoke of "shut coal and nuclear and sun tax". So on June 5th last year, I was talking about the closure of the power stations, this isn't new. In October 2018, the Government decides to remove the so-called green centime from the thermals that operate through gas but not from the coal thermals, and that decision brings us to this situation. Yes, yes, bring us to this situation, a decision that drives us out of the market, through facts, thermal power stations and makes us less competitive. A few weeks later, in November, the Secretary of State of Energy, José Domínguez Abascal, made statements in which he closed the fourteen thermal coal plants in Spain. In his speech, the number two of the Minister of Ecological Intransigence says the thermals should be closed in June 2020, and the rest around 2025 or 2030. So suddenly, fifteen years less, twenty years less, and by whom, by the Socialist Government. [[Murmurs.]] And what have the representatives of the Socialist Party done here in Galicia all this time? Well, what Mr. Knight knows best to do: to shut up or to applaud. When Pedro Sánchez announced he wanted to shut down all the thermal power stations in the country before 2025, Caballero, chiton. When the green penny was removed from the gas stations, not the coal plants, the Knight, the chiton. When it was decreed by the government that the bridge power station was fifteen or twenty years younger than an arbitrary useful life, without talking to anyone, Knight, chiton. And what did Mr. Knight do when the final closing of the station was announced? Horseman, chitoon? No, no, no, no, he went to Madrid. To what? On a rally, applauding Mr. Sánchez on the same day we knew the news. That is the great lie of the Socialist Party's position on this matter. The Socialists want to present this debate as a false dichotomy and tell us that we have to choose, that we have to choose between the environment and employment. And it's not true, it's not true that false dichotomy you want to pose, it's not true! Junta is showing that you can be concerned about climate change and the ecological transition and defending the jobs that depend on the thermal power plant. That's why these 217 million euros were invested. It's not true he hadn't done anything, he was doing it. The resources needed to extend the service life of the plant were being invested. What did you guys do? Load it through tax to prevent the continuity of the thermal power plant. That's the difference, what makes us different from you, a board that governs, a board that plans, a board that studies the subjects, and a central government that lives by the titular blow of what it touches every day, whatever happens and affects who affects it. [[Applause]] Since the 1990s, CO2 emissions in Galicia have decreased by 5% and in the state as a whole have increased by 12%. Galicia is fulfilling environmental commitments and commitments to fight climate change. That dichotomy is false, it's not real that speech you keep. That's why today we are the second autonomous community with more electrical production from renewable sources, by the wagering of a government all this time. So you're lying. It is an insult that Mr. Pedro Sánchez comes to Vigo and that the only reference that makes to the bridge problem is, "We're thinking about them." Are we getting the hair? Are you really kidding us? Look, that "we're thinking about them," what do you mean? [[Murmurs.]] Did they also think about them, about us, when the minister asked Endesa to postpone the announcement of the closing of the bridge station by November 10th? Did they think...? [[Murmurs.]] I'm not saying it, it was published in the press, in the national press. The World: Rivera asked Endesa to wait for 10-N for the plan to close the thermal power plant of As Bridges. But isn't it embarrassing for you? But isn't it embarrassing for them to play with people and play with a whole neighborhood? [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Knight, I'm not interested in your party's internal misery. I don't know if you don't make noise because this blow politically comes to Mr. Formoso and wants to harm him. I don't know if Mr. Formoso wants to differ from you because he wants his position. Your internal problems bring me absolutely without care. As a Greek and as a neighbour of the district of Ferrolterra, I am truly concerned that an arbitrary decision by the Socialist Government punishes a territory repeatedly and continued by socialist governments, who called it naval reconversion and was the dismantling of the naval sector. And behind all the ship conversions was always his party, the Socialist Party. Do you know what I'm telling you? Political decisions have human consequences, political decisions have consequences for people's lives. When three years ago Endesa announced an investment that guarantees the activity of the power plant until 2045, much of the carriers - close to 200 - who were dedicated to this decided to renew the fleet of trucks. On average, each vehicle costs around €140,000, €140,000!, it's not a joke. Today, three years later, those carriers that bring you to them without care, and show it every time they talk to the frivolity they talk to, they don't have a job, but they haven't had it since April, since the month of April. You know what they have? They're afraid, they're afraid of the future, they're afraid of unemployment, they're afraid of losing the house because the house is often the help the bank needed to give it that 140,000 euros loan. Let us therefore take this matter seriously. These are the effects of an irresponsible policy and an intransigence policy, that's reality. And the tides, the two, or the three, or whatever, are happy. And happy for what? Because they got what they wanted. The Tides of Podemos were the first to come here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u276	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u277	...to call for the closure of the bridge thermal power plant. Now I'm fighting between you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u278	Quiet, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u279	...to know who the initiative was...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u280	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u281	...but the first time it came here to close the bridges...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u282	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u283	...proposed the Tides of Podemos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u284	Quiet, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u285	They asked when they were called AGE, Alternative Left-Galga. They asked for it when they were called In Tide.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u286	Mr. Sánchez, be quiet. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u287	When they were called Galicia in Common, and now they are called Common Left.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u288	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u289	We're going to continue to work to defend the jobs of a whole region, and we'd like the opposition groups not to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u290	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u291	...of palm trees of an irresponsible Socialist Party, which punishes our community.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u292	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u293	And, of course, in the district of Ferrolterra we don't deserve this [...].
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u294	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. Mr. Conde López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u295	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come here today to talk about something very specific: the situation that we are going through in Galicia by an unfair decision of the Government that is causing the abrupt closure of a thermal plant that has a clear process, since the company has made an investment of 200 million euros, and that goes against all the principles that are being established in the European Union precisely to favour the energy transition. Galicia is against and is clearly against this unjust decision of the Government. What the Galician Union is proposing here is the support of parliamentary groups for the 750 families because they do not deserve an unfair, political and ideological decision of the Government. [[Applause]] We have seen, ladies and gentlemen, with a very clear and very simple proposal, which has the consensus and agreement of the Council of the Bridges and the Council of Galicia, and it is to ask the Government to reactivate the plant immediately until an alternative is found. It's very simple. We're either in favour or against. The government has their hands because if we all add together, we will be stronger, and we can therefore make a common front before a decision the Socialist Government is making in Madrid. The approach is simple, I will now respond to all the speeches of the parliamentary groups, but I simply transfer them that Galicia does not deserve the treatment that the Socialist Party is transferring in the field of energy policy, and, of course, I believe that we have a responsibility in this Parliament to join the 750 families that are going through an unfair situation, which, of course, is a survival situation to which the Government must respond. [[Murmurs.]] In any case, Mr. Casal, the Government has recognized that it has been a survival situation, which is precisely why there is a double responsibility for it to take action. What we're asking you is what the European Union says. The European Union says that governments have the right tax mechanisms to cope with plant reactivation. We are not asking for anything against what other countries are doing or what the European Union itself allows. So here there are no colors or matches, here is a clear position of how to respond to a situation that Spain clearly has to answer. Mr. Casal, in Europe there are 149 thermal power stations in operation, 149! Can anyone explain to me why we have to close them all in Spain? This isn't about fighting climate change, no, no. We are not in favour, we are in favour of climate change, we are not in favour of continuously maintaining coal plants. Of course not, of course this government does not defend the operation over time of coal plants, of course not! [[Murmurs.]] Europe is proposing an energy transition, why can't we take part in that energy transition just like the rest of the countries? Why does the Government move us to Galicia without alternatives? In Germany, Mr. Casal, they imported 44.5 million tons of coal last year. Let's say the data, they're there, there's the data. Of course, Germany also cares about coal, just like Spain. [[Murmurs.]] It's not a resource theme, it's just a matter of how to deal with an energy transition.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u296	Excuse me, Counselor, just one second. Mrs Vilán, your group has a Member to be a spokesman in this area or in this particular matter, and it has a turn next. I pray you keep silent, and if you have to make comments, like everybody else, you can do them but lower, because that's how all the intervention takes place. If not, I'll have to call her in order. When you come here, he likes the rest of the other groups to be quiet. So, please, let's ask everyone, please, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] All of us. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u297	Two more things, Mr. Casal. I ask you a very simple question, if you agree to the immediate reactivation of the plant, because in your proposal what is moving us is something that we agreed yesterday with the mayor of the Bridges, which is precisely to set up a technical table between all administrations, also logically counting on the collaboration of universities, technological centres, everything that can provide a solution, an alternative, to stop burning coal but maintain energy production. I sincerely believe that the proposal that you are moving is included in that concert between the Council and the Council of Galicia, so I would ask you for this position and that it will add to your parliamentary group; I think today we have an opportunity, indeed, to make that common front. Madam Presas, I don't know why the debate is disrupting. I don't know why the debate is disrupting. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We have to make something clear because it's pretty simple. Energy policy is an exclusive competition from the Government. The economic regime of the electricity system is an exclusive competition from the Government of Madrid. So if we have to face here, which is what we've been talking about, how we can give an answer to the bridge center and to the bridge workers, we have to refer to the instruments linked to the economic regime of the electrical system. [[Murmurs.]] And that economic regime of the electricity system is an exclusive competition from the Government of Madrid. That's how I transferred him to the minister. He asked me what Galicia would do. But minister, these are your skills. You have the tax instruments, just like you have the CO2 mechanism instrument, which means revenue. Hey, take your responsibilities and we'll be able to understand ourselves! Therefore, I ask you, Mrs. Presas, where you want to be. Does it sit with Galicia or is it trying to support the Government of Madrid, as it has done in the past and as it has done when the Government Zapatero wanted to introduce renewables at a cost that we could not assume, and there was the Nationalist Block Galego supporting Zapatero? Where do you want to position? Supporting Sánchez or supporting Galicia? They have to decide in a very simple way. They have to decide. [[Murmurs.]] For once I believe that the Block has the opportunity, of course, to defend the interests of the Greeks and, above all, to defend the interests of the Bridges. Madam Presas, there's a unanimous position, precisely, to see how we can do that common front, and I think it's quite representative. It's all the Town Hall of the Bridges behind in defense of the Bridge Central. Is the Junta of Galicia behind the defense of the bridge central, where is the Galego Nationalist Block located?, alongside Pedro Sánchez and the Socialist Party, as in the past have been supporting Zapatero, or is it really with Galicia and the interests of the Greeks? Mr. Sánchez, please clarify yourself, because your speech is from the Journal of Sessions. I don't know who he's with. I've listened very carefully to his intervention and I haven't been clear to who he is, whether he's defending the thermal power station of the Bridges or he's preparing some office in Madrid with the new government. I've got nothing clear about it, probably with the second one. Indeed, it is curious to see how in his intervention he aligned himself with the Government of the Socialist Party, curious! It uses, as always, the resources of large companies, multinationals, but really, it's not specific where you want to position. Mr. Sánchez, I didn't come here to accuse anyone. This isn't about finding guilty, no, no. This is about taking responsibility and making decisions, nothing more. I'm not here to blame anyone or talk about the past, I'm talking about the present and the future. So all we've seen is moving and asking for that responsibility. They asked several representatives of the groups, what did Galicia do? I think Galicia -- I said in my speech -- is green and Galicia wants to be greener. But Galicia is green with facts, because Galicia has been betting on renewable energies for many years! When no one was talking about renewable energies, there was Galicia. It is true that the energy guidelines for the year 2018-2020 are enabling us to develop a decisive role in this energy transition process, and indeed we will end the year 2020 with about 8,000 renewable megawatts, of which 4,000 will be wind, lords. We're talking about the wind turbines that they want to develop by the year 2030. In Galicia, despite the opposition that many parliamentary groups are developing so that Galicia can lead this transition through the wind sector, we are becoming pioneers. And I remind you -- as I think it's important -- that we're the second community with more power and more power generation from renewable sources. 66%, ladies and gentlemen, 66% of Galicia's electrical power is already renewable. Like Galicia didn't do her homework? The average of Spain is 38%, Galicia, 66%, and far above other European Union states. Galicia 66%, France 19%. Galicia 66%, Germany 35%. Galicia 66%, Italy 39%. Like Galicia didn't do her homework? And of course we approved a 2050 climate change strategy, of course! Mrs. Rodríguez, you've had two years to get close; 690 agents have arrived, seven tables working on this strategy. Where was the Socialist Party? Hey! Here we are to propose, or are we simply to sit there and criticize? There is a strategy for climate change, where are the Socialist Party's proposals? [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, this strategy of climate change and energy that is driving the Environment Council is placing Galicia as a reference in the fight against climate change, that is reality. In Spain there are only three other communities, such as Cantabria, Basque Country and Navarre, which have similar planning, no one else. Four autonomous communities in Spain, including Galicia. How is Galicia not leading the energy transition and the fight against climate change? One data, one data that's also important, because when it's planned, and if it's planned strictly, then it's left in the documents. This strategy of climate change, ladies and gentlemen, does not contemplate the closure of the bridge power station. It's not contemplated because the government didn't expect the bridge plant to be closed. Therefore, the Socialist Party will have to come here to explain to us, indeed, why it wants to close it. [[Applause]] And by the way, Mrs Rodríguez, how is it not compatible to defend the continuity of the bridge power station with energy transition-oriented measures? But how can you criticize me that Redesga uses 100 percent of renewable energy? But what does it have to do with the energy transition and the reactivation of the bridge plant with which there is also an energy transition bet? Are we serious or have we come here just to pass a file? By the way, magnificent intervention as a defender of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, wonderful intervention! You're probably making a lot of vows to have a career in Madrid. But what matters to us here is Galicia, the workers of the Bridges, Mrs. Rodríguez, we don't care what the Socialist Party agenda is because, unfortunately, the Socialist Party agenda is to subject Galicia to nothing. Then you won't have this government, then you won't have this parliamentary group and, of course, you won't have the Greeks. You'll know where they want to be. [[Applause]] Mrs. Rodríguez, you came here to talk about everything and nothing. Here we came to talk about the bridge power station. If you want to talk about industrial policy, please. Today a minister came here, surprisingly, after fifteen months, not to give any solution. It's more, we've asked him for a statute, which they've been talking about for months that they have a draft, we've asked him to teach us to see if that draft really goes in the right direction, and not, no, no. We're not going to teach it because the elections are November 10th, it won't be! But I can tell you one thing, the president of Alcoa, the company committee of Alcoa and the Galician board are extremely concerned about the future of Alcoa San Cibrao precisely because there is no government that is transparent, that is clear and that it is determined to give an electric price and a competitive position to the Alcoa plant. And those are, Mrs. Rodríguez, two thousand industrial jobs in Galicia. If you want to talk about industrial policy, we're talking about industrial policy, but if you want to talk about bridges, then we're talking about energy policy, and the question is, where is the energy policy of the Socialist Party? You're talking about bridge investments, of course! If Meirama and The Bridges were on the agenda of the Galician Union. Hey, do you think she was at the meetings she had in Galicia with Endesa? Nothing more than the investments that marked the industrial emissions directive were made precisely to give continuity to the bridge plant from 2020 onwards. And Galicia managed to make those investments. Who can explain that a government is now coming, a year earlier, closing down the power station? But what country are we in? Do you believe in the Socialist Party that they can legislate with their fingers? Here we're talking about employment, we're talking about families, and we're talking about the future, so we can't accept that we all convinced a company to make an investment of 200 million euros to comply with a European directive marking June 2020 to have made those investments and to continue the activity, and that in 2019 you come here and say that in twenty-four hours you'll have to close that plant. But what's that joke? [[Applause]] And with regard to his allusions to Naturgy, look, this government has only one objective, which is Galicia, and therefore will defend that position before any company. We have already told you by being active and passive, in this parliament and outside this parliament, that Naturgy and the Government have to assume responsibility for closing the bridge plant and, therefore, they have the responsibility to give an alternative to the neighborhood from an industrial point of view because it marks the process of energy transition itself and thus marks the authorization that the Government has to give for the closure of the plant. Because you know that the government can't give permission to close without Naturgy presenting an industrial alternative that would put a future in that region. So we'll see. Of course, the Galician Union will be demanding Naturgy and the Government to comply precisely with the terms of that closure, and I hope that the Socialist Party will leave its national militancy and defend the Greeks, and therefore it is also defending Meirama's position. [[Applause]] Here's what I had to be ready for. But calmly, ladies and gentlemen. The European Union funds for the energy transition and therefore the funds which they have set up in Europe to help the transition regions will be available from 2021 onwards. But do we mean it or not? The European Union's energy transition funds will be included in the budget framework 2021-2027, which is why the mayor of the Bridges is asking, together with the Galician Union, to be on the European transition platform, because they are fully aware of the mayor of the Bridges and the President of the Union that from 2021 there will be funds in the European Union precisely for regions in transition. And the Socialist Government is coming to tell us we closed in 2019! But where are we?, where are we, gentlemen?, where are we? [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. I, honestly, just hope we didn't fall into the mistake of the past. The Socialist Party is proposing an energy policy without any kind of planning, aside from European legislation, aside from its own funds set up in the European Union, aside from the position of the countries. I remember here today the Socialist Government of Rodríguez Zapatero, who was supported... I know you don't like to hear this, I know you don't like it, but Rodríguez Zapatero's energy policy was supported by the Nationalist Block Galego and the left, and there's the Journal of Sessions, I don't invent anything at all. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Zapatero wanted to be the first in the world to deploy renewable energies when they were not mature, we know, and that generated -- they know perfectly -- a tariff deficit of 30 billion euros that we had to pay, gentlemen, that we had to pay. And today the Socialist Party seems to want to be the first, again supported by the Galician Nationalist Block, supported by En Marea and supported by the Joint Left Group. I ask this Parliament to really give an answer to the workers and we didn't make a mistake that wouldn't have any kind of return. The proposal is simple, very simple. We're asking for the immediate reactivation of the central bridge plant as long as there's no alternative to continue electrical production in the bridges. We call for a work table between the administrations and the company itself to work on these alternatives. And of course, Galicia may be on the European platform allowing it to access the European funds which will be available from 2021 onwards. I strongly ask them to stand in their speeches on whether the opposition groups really want to make a common front with the Council of the Bridges and with the Council of Galicia, because we honestly believe that the 750 families of the Bridges deserve this support, deserve this struggle, and of course they do not deserve the treatment that the Government of Madrid is currently transferring to them. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u298	Thank you, Counselor. Special round of clarifications. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Casal
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u299	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, I've told you since today that we are willing to participate in these works, as we've been complaining for a long time, and of course we'll be there. That's right, that they're really participative. You talked about Endesa's investment. Indeed, Endesa invested 200 million euros knowing perfectly that he was at risk that if CO2 kept going up, it could be reached a situation where the power plant would not be profitable in the short term. Why did they continue with the investment of 200 million euros and, instead, for example, Naturgy? It seems I was already counting on you to get them back with the proposals that you brought here today. If we get them back with the power plant working, perfect, a few thousand hours more, phenomenal, phenomenal, performances for everyone. And if it's not profitable... because the power station is closed not because Mr. Sánchez ordered it or because he ordered it to the European Union, the power station is closed because it's not profitable for Enel, that's the reality! So if it wasn't profitable and they were at risk of losing the 200 million, why did they make the investment? Because they expected someone to claim that if they paid them the money with tax exemptions and paid them for several years, at least five, six, until 2025, even until 2030, for having the central stop, through the capacity payments you claim. That's not an alternative, that's not investing in the future of the Bridges. And the bridge station, as I mentioned earlier, closes Endesa, closes Enel, not Mr Sánchez, the European Union, nor the Industry Councillor, nor any Member or Member of this House. The station shuts it down because it's not profitable for him. No, no, for no decision. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The rights of CO2 do not depend on Mr. Sánchez, do not come here to count milongas, for God's sake! The point is that an imported coal power plant, with the costs of putting coal on mine, plus CO2 fees, with a selling price at this time of 52 euros megawatt/hour, is not profitable, and the company decides to close. Now there are two alternatives: either give money to the company to continue producing in a weak way, or dedicate this money to the future of the district of the Bridges. Hundreds of millions of euros would have to pay Endesa to keep that power plant running poorly. Because the rights of CO2 won't go down, that's obvious, the trend is that they keep rising; more and more money. Maybe we give them 100 million now and they work for six months. And in six months, they'll say, hey, that CO2 went up another 20%, give me another 100 million. Is that really the policy of a serious and responsible government? We don't think so. Obviously, we have to have a provisional plan. Maybe we should wait a while to adapt everything and make concrete proposals, but we don't see anything, we don't see any concrete proposals. If you get on the Internet and look at the process of transition from Andorra's mine to Teruel, from Endesa, you'll find hundreds of references, from the Government of Aragon and from Endesa itself, with concrete proposals that you will make for the recovery of those areas. See if there's a proposal from Endesa or a proposal from the Government of Galicia's Board of Governors about how the district of the Bridge will be recovered. Serious studies, where it's said that you're going to invest in this, that you're going to recover this way, that you're going to invest, this is the project. Little by little, I didn't find anything, and Teruel, from central Andorra, there are dozens of files already hung over the Internet. Indeed, Counsellor, you are right, it is well documented, European funds start in 2021. Of course, and the exams are in June, but students start studying in September, they don't wait for June! One year - one year and three months - is missing - for the European Union to start releasing money. But to release the money, the first thing to have is the map of the sustainable transition, which already has twenty-five regions in Europe affected. And in Galicia, until two weeks ago, I mentioned it here, everyone was asking what's this about the sustainable transition map? I know they're putting on the batteries now, I know they're counting on college to develop it. Phenomenal, I congratulate you. But, I say, be part of it. And within a year and a half -- one year and three months -- there must already be projects, and, in the meantime, concrete alternatives. For example, Environmental Adviser, a concrete alternative. You know that on January 1st of next year, if budgets are approved, you should start the renaturalization of the Burgo River. There's half a million tons of toxic sludge. For instead of encapsulating them, as it is in the initial project -- who I don't know who did it, the truth -- maybe the theme was that bridge transporters had taken that half a million tons, starting in January of next year, of 2020, Sogarisa, which is unfortunately no longer a public company in the Union of Galicia, but they gave it to a friend. Maybe that's a solution, it's a year's work for bridge trucks, just like Pontevedra's mud.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u300	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u301	There are many alternatives. Obviously, it's not... it can do, it can do... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u302	They don't dialogue, they don't dialogue...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u303	...it's much better to get them out...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u304	They don't dialogue, if they don't... Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u305	...to encapsulate them where...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u306	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u307	Well, summarizing. Counsellor, perfect, we are willing to go to that, but proposals, and, above all, evaluation. How much you have to pay Endesa to keep the power plant running, and if it's best to spend that money on other alternatives. Let's look at it, we're willing to collaborate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u308	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u309	Good afternoon again. Mr. Count once again insisted that it was no use meeting with Alcoa today, so I repeat: Mr. Feijóo is not here because he vetoed his person's appearance for political cowardice, not to give his face and to give her others in his name, and point. [[Applause]] And don't bring me pictures, Mr. Tellado, that then I have to start taking all the photos of the councillor promising us to adapt to Naturgy and don't give me the minutes of reply to see their spooky failures. So please don't insist on that way. Approaches the strategy of climate change. Well, Mr Tellado, when you have the right to send it to the German Parliament, if you process it around here, we'll get closer. Now, let's not be fooled like the three-page energy guidelines we've been working on in this House. [[Applause]] Because coming up with those falsehoods to try to give here a false picture that you're the only ones planning on this planet when they're the least of them, it doesn't stop being serious. Just like the game they play on dates, when they know that in this very Parliament we've been debating again and again about the possibility of an end to coal before 2045, and Endesa herself encrypted its figures by before 2045. So don't come with those stories! I see them a little confused. They're accusing us of the Galician Nationalist Block of defending a great coalition with the Socialist Party and it's you and Mr. Feijóo who's defending it. I, for the first time, and surely for the last time in my life, will make my own statements from Mr. Married and tell them to stop screwing around, but quit fucking taking this country seriously. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Because look, you're crying a lot, but who had to bring to this House again and again the claim of the coal plan of the People's Party and the Socialist Party was the BNG. On January 21, we reached an agreement to demand that Mr. Pedro Sánchez include Galicia in the current Coal Plan. You vote in favour, what's the problem? That later they didn't execute their political weight, they couldn't get it that way. Therefore, we have nothing to bear as a responsibility for conscience. Nor does it concern the European funds. Of course, we are in favour, Mr Conde, of claiming that Galicia is on an equal footing in the European funds! But 15 days ago you, who is a Member of this Parliament, voted against the debate on the state of the nation. We asked that Galicia be included in the European funds. [[Applause]] Have a little serious! I insist that Greek nationalism does not marry anyone and is always on the side of Galicia, and so it has been with the coal regions of this country. And one thing is competition and another is incompetence, we go back to the debate forever. If you for some things are so accepted to defend our country, do that extended to the energy model. So you're telling me that you have nothing to do beyond complaining that the central government is so bad? Well then, I don't know, maybe they should give us part of what this government costs us for the industrial development of these regions and it would be much more useful than having you complaining all day. In any case, I wanted to come up with a question. Tell me what you mean by that from a technical table, from a dialogue table and so on. I made a very specific proposal: if you're not taking them seriously from the central government, if we can't trust them -- because it can happen the same as with the statute of electrointensives -- then what we have to do is to have a table of the Greek field so that these gentlemen and ladies of the Bridges can decide on their future, so that all the socially relevant organisms in this country are integrated, and that local administrations, Junta, the State and the presence of Endesa are also demanded. [[Applause]] Because, of course, if we trust that from Madrid they decide what's right or not good for this country, evil will go!, as it has been for us in the last decade. So tell clearly whether you're going to exercise political power and lead that Galician work table or not, or whether you're just going to expect them to decide for us. I just wanted to address the latest words of the Galego Nationalist Block to all the people on the Bridges and also from Cerceda who are currently worried and who are probably disappointed by the result of this appearance. By our band, we'll make the possible of ourselves so that this situation will go ahead; this country has already gone through many. We must remember -- you know better than we do -- the collective struggle that has led us to conquer many social rights in these parts of the country. We know that there were people who made hunger strikes, who received beatings, who stopped beatings in demonstrations and who had been fighting for the rights of a whole region and a whole class. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] We have that legacy behind our backs and that has to be above all the interests we're seeing right now. We are convinced that this people will come out again, that there will be a future also in the district of the Bridges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u310	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Joint Left Group, Mr. Sánchez. Quiet, we have guests upstairs. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] With regard to them, please, and all in respect. I have spoken to all Members and Members: with regard to the guests we have in the gallery, we are going to what we are going, which is the subject they are interested in. Thank you. Mr. Sánchez, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u311	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and the Greek Government, I thought they came to speak seriously about this subject, but they noticed a lot of the assembly that they came here to prepare; a assembly that meant overacting, lying, misleading people or trying to deceive people instead of assuming the responsibilities as a government of a country that has full competence in economic planning. Today they made a mount that was noticed to them very much. Look, I've already pointed out that so much responsibility lies with the German Government as well as the Spanish Government for not having prepared this country for the change that will inevitably happen, both of us. I'm not like you, "Think of the thief who's all of your condition." I have not come here to exempt the Socialist Government from responsibilities, I have come to speak to the truth, and the truth is that Endesa has communicated this new situation in these terms: "During 2019 there has been a profound change in market conditions that affect coal thermal power plants, mainly derived from the international price of commodities and the effectiveness of the new mechanisms for regulating carbon dioxide emission rights markets, which shift the higher emissions-volume plants to other technologies." This is no decision of any government, this is something predictable and planable that you neither anticipated nor planned. Because there was a reform of the emission rights markets in 2017, precisely for CO2 emission prices to rise. They like it or they don't like it, in Europe there was this reform in 2017 and there were people who were warning that they were going up to 25 euros, as it was. That's what they call prevention and planning, which is the work of a government. [[Applause]] When a power plant emits 7 million tons of carbon dioxide and gets 20 euros each tonne, that means 150 million euros difference in balance, so it's not profitable to produce with coal. Right? And that's not likely to change. So you overact and lie, and you repeat the same lie a thousand times to see if it becomes true. First, they privatized Endesa. If so important and strategic is Endesa for The Bridges, and so much do you waste your time talking about sensitivity to families, why did they privatize it, and left in the hands of a private company the lives of those people? Why? [[Applause]] Obviously, because they used The Bridges to launch a company that today distributes millionaire dividends. Mr. Pizarro went there - remember? - from the People's Party, Mr. De Guindos, Mr. Aznar, Mr. Martín Villa... That's the corruption, the great corruption of the People's Party, which handed over the electric sector to four companies to bring the price of light to the citizens and to leave the workers and truckers at the stake, and that responsibility weighs on you! Second, because they haven't done their homework, because they haven't planned this situation or anticipated it. When we said years ago that a plan had to be made for a possible closure of the thermals, because this could happen, you were on top of us. How better would this country, with a plan of economic diversification, of reindustrialization, or simply without anything, with a government that circumvents all responsibilities and diverts responsibilities to others? If all the others are guilty and neither are you, you are recognizing that they are useless to this country, that they are unable to give you solutions. [[Applause]] And third, they have to overact and lie about The Bridges and miss people, those people you call cynically, very cynically, to which you and Mr. Tellado, very cynically, appeal. You would have to be able to generate future alternatives, and a government that is unable to provide solutions to R, Vulcan, Barriers, Isowat, Meirama, Bridges and a long et cetera, that government is powerless in offering opportunities for the future. A government that destroyed 22,000 industrial jobs in ten years. Ten years in which, one out of three industrial jobs destroyed in the Spanish state was German. You are the sub-samples of the entire state in destruction of industrial employment. They can't generate future expectations for this country. So for these three reasons you came here to make a montage and miss out on citizenship, workers and truck drivers. You were telling me, which side is he on? Look, you know which side you're on, you're on Endesa's side, but not Endesa's workers, because in your actions you want to give Endesa millions of euros.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u312	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u313	...by the way, to keep raising the bill of light, one of the most expensive bill of light in Europe, but it gave no solution here for these trucks, which are the ones that need a more peremptory solution. Less lie, less overacting, less myths and more government for all and not for the electric oligopolie! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u314	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u315	Thank you, Mr. President. Really, Counselor, can you continue to say here that the Government of Pedro Sánchez has shut down the thermal power station of the Bridges? If that statement is made to a councillor who is part of the Government of Galicia, everything else he says is disqualified, absolutely everything! [[Applause]] You know perfectly well that you cannot come to this Parliament in Galicia and lie. He knows he can't do it. And you know you can't lie to us or the people who are there listening to you. They're lying, absolutely lying. You know perfectly well that this is a decision of the company, of Endesa, and you know perfectly well that the price of carbon dioxide emission rights, which have increased by more than 50% this past year, is the result of the profitability of this company. You know it perfectly! And the company itself has stated that, even though the Government eliminates the green penny, it continues to be profitable to the company. You know it perfectly! [[Applause]] Don't lie, don't cheat, it's not a receipt that a person who's a part of the German Government comes to lie. It's not a receipt, Counselor!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u316	Quiet. Then there are other shifts. We all respect each other.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u317	By the way, Counsellor, did you set up any management with Mr. Arias Cañete, Commissioner of Energy in the European Union, and that also belongs to the People's Party? Did they do something? Because that would be interesting to know, that would be interesting if I had commented on it here. Mr Counsellor, you have an obligation to plan this country's industrial policy, you have an obligation. Tell me, what is the energy model of the Galician Union? Tell me, where are Galicia's energy guidelines published? Answer me. I wonder if in 2016 you put the challenge of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 35% of 2005. Tell me, where are they? What are those measures? I think Mr. Tellado talked about 5%, but they have to go down by 35%. And we want to know what the planning of the Galician Union is, what the planning of the Welsh Government is. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. President, I think there's someone who wants to come here to the gallery. Please invite her if possible, and if not, please shut your mouth.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u318	Now you're in the use of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u319	I'm in the use of the word. Yeah, please, I'm asking you to be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u320	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u321	Counsellor, you're talking about the strategy of climate change that you treat as a decree, that you don't bring this Parliament as a bill to be debated, and you have the face - sorry to tell you - to say that we haven't done anything near? [[Applause]] Please! I think it's an insult, it's an insult what you're telling us here today. It's an insult what you're telling us here today! Look, Counsellor, we, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, have an unequivocal commitment to the two thermal power stations. With regard to the thermal power plant in Meirama, which has just begun this legislation - this X legislation - it was us who brought the first initiative on the loss of Miner funds. Do you know what your vote was, including yours and included that of the militant president of Galicia? [[Applause]] Do you know what the vote was? On the contrary, it was your vote! That was your bet to recover the 72 million euros from the Miner funds that Mr. Mariano Rajoy cancelled out of a pen. [[Applause]] Look, Counselor, there have been several and many initiatives here that the Socialist Party has presented and that the People's Party's Roll has prevented them from going ahead. We also tabled a motion for a resolution in the debate on the state of autonomy, in the previous plenary session, and you voted against it again. And a GNP that was brought here at the previous plenary session by the People's Party, defended by Mr Tellado, who did not understand that we were going to vote in favour, we also voted in favour of it, we also voted in favour! So our bet is totally unequivocal. In addition, we presented an amendment, Mr. Counsellor, which went in the same direction as you asked us for a moment ago, and we said, "Let an inter-ministerial working group be set up as soon as possible, in which autonomous communities are integrated, with the following purposes: to analyze the most reasonable, environmentally and economically sustainable energy transition model, and in which the most efficient thermal power plants, including those in Meirama and The Bridges, are housed. Develop the 2030 Industrial Development Plan for Ecological Transition and Decarbonization, which will maximize opportunities, improve industry competitiveness and create quality jobs. Finally, let the Galician Union work together with Endesa to allow the company to enter the circular economy." Do you know what you voted for? On the contrary. I have nothing else to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u322	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u323	Thank you, President. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo said: we have a commitment to the thermal power stations in Galicia. Really, close them. That's your commitment: close them! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Look, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, who is from Cerceda, I have to tell you that I would like your speech to be similar to the mayor of the Bridges, also socialist. Too bad your speech is unconditionally aligned with Mr. Gonzalo Caballero and Mr. Pedro Sánchez, against the interests of Galicia and against the interests of his own council. I deeply regret it. Look, here the speech is clear, we are very clear: we ask, demand, demand that the thermal power plant of the bridges be reactivated immediately. That's our position, that's what we ask. What's your position? What is the position of opposition groups? Indefinitely, they don't say anything, and the workers get annoyed. That's reality, you don't have a plan, you don't have a proposal. What are we accused of? If you want the power plant to reopen? Of course, we want the power plant to reopen immediately! [[Applause]] Are we accused of not being prepared in 2019 for what had to happen in the year 2045? Actually, we're not really prepared to do in 2019 what was to be done in 2045. But why are we now doing what was to be done in the year 2045? By direct decision of the Socialist Government. That's the reality. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u324	Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u325	Look, I was talking about the Maresian's voice of the price of emission rights. It is that other countries are taking steps to prevent the closures of their thermal power stations. And here in Spain what do we do? Suffocate them even more from the Government, that's reality. But your speech is normal, if you come here to ask for the closure of all the companies that stand before you! You're against Ence, they've already been able to close Elnosa, they're against Reganosa, they're against Meirama, they're against the enlargement of PSA-Citroën and they're against the canneries, which will be affected by the measures they intend to do against Ence. They're against wind, they're against mining. [[Murmurs.]] But are you in favor of something? Is there anything? No, no. [[Murmurs.]] What do we ask the Government? The elimination of green penny and capacity payment, tax measures being established in other countries. To defend what? To defend employment in our region. [[Applause]] Counselor, don't preach in the desert. When you spoke to the socialists of unity of action, on a common front, of defending Galician interests, you were speaking to them in Chinese. We're alone, we're alone, the majority group of the House and the German Government, with the neighbours of the Bridges, and that's all we care about. There's a culprit, there are some necessary collaborators, and we, of course, will not agree with that policy. [[Applause]] In the debate of the state of autonomy, Mr. Caballero left something in this gallery. I don't know if you noticed, but he left something. It's been 20 days, haven't you missed anything? Is there nothing missing? Look there on the scene, isn't there anything missing? Look at the PSOE, Mr. Knight, the PSOE has dropped the "O" as a worker. You're no longer defending the workers, you're not defending the job, you're a real threat, a real threat to industry and employment. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u326	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u327	You've always been the biggest job destroyers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u328	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u329	...in this country...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u330	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u331	...when they ruled in Spain and also when they ruled in Galicia. That's all they can do. You're no longer the PSOE, I'm the 'psah!"that's the reality! [[Laughter]] As a worker, nothing; as a defender of employment, nothing. You, too, are hypocrites, hypocrites! That is the socialist hypocrisy: "Spain now buys coal energy in Morocco after closing mines and thermals." That's the Socialist Party you represent, what you defend. [[Applause]] Do you know what I'm telling you? I'm sure if your group were led by Mr. Leicega, today the Greek socialists would be defending precisely the opposite, they wouldn't be defending what they're defending today. Of course, the Socialist Group led by Leiceaga would be defending the bridge workers next to the German Government. But Leicea was relieved by Mr. Knight, and so we are. [[Murmurs.]] Look, I do want to celebrate the attitude of the mayor of the Bridges...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u332	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u333	...the socialist Valentín González Formosa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u334	Quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u335	I want to celebrate your attitude and speech, your commitment. You could imitate him, you could be Valentine, but you're coward. You're a coward in the defence of Galician interests. [[Laughter]] Mr. Knight, I told the secretary the other day: the mayor of the Bridges is defending his neighbours and he can go out in the street defending with his head what he's doing, and I don't feel bad about saying it in spite of being a party. [[Murmurs.]] He's doing what he has to do. But you're not, you're on the side of those who want to close The Bridges and they're going to get it. Of course, it doesn't count on us. We're going to face, we're going to fight and, of course, we're not going to be complicit in his...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u336	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u337	...political cowardice. Look, Ferrol, the city where I was born, is a theme park of destruction that leaves socialism at its mercy. Testimony of permanent treason to Galicia in order to defend other interests, generally partisan interests. For decades it has been called naval conversion and it was the dismantling of an entire sector; now it's called ecological transition and it has nothing transition or has nothing ecological.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u338	Thank you, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u339	Aquatarization of thermal power plants...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u340	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u341	...that's what you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u342	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u343	Of course, it doesn't count on us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u344	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u345	...to work together...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u346	Thank you. Your time is up. [[Applause]] Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you. Time's up, Mr. Tellado. [[Applause]] Your time is up! Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you. [[Mr. Fernández Leiceaga asks for the floor.]] Mr. Leicega, what do you want the word for? [[Protests.]] I have to ask you why you want the word and based on what article you're asking for... it's normal, isn't it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u347	On two questions. The first is whether from now on it is possible to use the atril from where it is spoken to hang any type of documentation on the Table.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u348	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u349	Yeah, yeah, yeah...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u350	Silence! [[Protests.]] Please! Please! [[Protests.]] Please! [[Protests.]] Please, Mr. Pazos! [[Protests.]] I think whoever has to answer you is the president, he's asking the president's question. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Sure, please, you're asking me a question. I'll answer it. [[Murmurs.]] Second question?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u351	The second question is that I think it's not a good practice, about the decor you say you defend, the use made by the spokesperson of the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u352	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u353	...in relation to Members who are not present in the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u354	Thank you. On the two questions. On the first, wearing t-shirts, please! [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Please, Mr. Paz, let me talk to you because if you don't, you won't let me...... provided they're not offensive, we've already said yes. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] It's the rules. It's not allowed upstairs. It's the rule I've moved to all of you, so I keep it. If they're not offensive, Members can... and it always happened here. So I don't think she's saying anything about the other world, she's always been like that. Second question. I am not going to go into what Members say because they have every right to speak and are free. I ask you all to be moderate, that's my role, but I'm not going to get into what every Member can freely say. Allah, that is the matter. Nothing else. To close this show, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u355	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I deeply regret that no opposition party joined the common front of the Council of Bridges and the Galician Union. I think you missed an opportunity, of course, to join the interests of Galicia, the interests of the Bridges and the interests of the bridge workers. They know that we will continue to seek solutions, concrete measures and, of course, we will continue to work together with all those political groups, administrations and institutions that above political colors and above parties come to defend here, really, a position that we understand is fair: defending the future of the bridge thermal power plant and the future of the bridge workers. [[Applause]] He said it before and I repeat it: Galicia is green and Galicia wants to be greener, that's reality. And, of course, greener is fully compatible with a fair energy transition in which job maintenance is guaranteed. It's perfectly compatible, and that's where we understand that the Galician Union, the Council of Bridges, the workers and all the political groups have to participate. Of course, what Galicia doesn't deserve is the radical, unfair, and disorderly energy transition that is causing the closure of the two power stations right now. Galicia does not deserve an energy transition that questions the future of its energy production, from being surplus at the moment to being defiant. Galicia does not deserve an energy transition in which the employment of close to a thousand families is at stake. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, Galicia does not deserve an energy transition that endangers the future of the Bridges, the future of Ferrolterra and the future of the north of Lugo province. No, ladies and gentlemen, Galicia doesn't deserve it! What Galicia deserves, of course — and that is why we have to work — is an energy transition that is fair, an energy transition that is orderly; that guarantees, of course, the continuity of the thermal power plant and that leaves the necessary time, that is what we are asking for. We're asking for time to look for alternatives to successfully replace coal. Finally, Galicia deserves an energy transition that thinks about the future of families and the future of the region. Ladies and gentlemen, the Galician Union does not defend the maintenance of coal. The Galician Union defends the maintenance of jobs. That's the work we're developing, so there's no time to waste; and, of course, there's no excuse for anyone. That's why we have to work together, because, in the face of the energy rupture that the Socialist Government is proposing to us, Galicia argues that the workers are not the ones who pay the consequences of the transition in Spain, which is what they are proposing to us. And in the face of the company's total paralysis, Galicia defends the reactivation of the power plant as long as the mechanisms that guarantee its viability and employment are not found, alternatives that at present the government itself and the company itself recognize that there is no such thing. So we have to keep working on that defense so that, without conditions, we can be allies of the Bridges and allies of the workers. So we hope that the Government, which Endess and the rest of the parties in this House will join the common front, this alliance that we launched yesterday both the Council of Galicia and the Council of Bridges; an alliance that seeks to work together on the margins of political colors and parties, precisely in search of this short-term reactivation of the thermal power plant through taxation and national measures, which is what allows the European Union, through the removal of the green coal penny, the reduction of taxation to the generation of electricity, or through the request for capacity payments for thermals; an alliance that simply seeks the medium and long-term viability of the power plant and where we have to work together. That's why we need the Government, ladies and gentlemen, to be sensitive to Galicia, to be sensitive to the workers and to make it available to Galicia, the thermal power plant of the bridges and the thermal power plant of Meirama, the just transition strategy that has been excluded from us both Galicia and Andalusia so far. And, of course, we will continue to demand that Galicia be part of the autonomous communities affected by the decarbonisation process that are entitled to these European aid, and that, as I have said, they will be available from the year 2021. We understand that this is the only way to avoid the energy chaos that the Government of Madrid sends us if it does not change its attitude. And, of course, it's the only way to prevent Galicia from going beyond being energy-efficient. And, of course, it's the only way to prevent Galicia from losing jobs, which is what we have to join to prevent Galicia from importing energy and exporting jobs, which is the proposal we have on the table right now. Finally, the Galician Union will insist on every time it is necessary to defend the future of the Bridges, to defend the future of the workers of the thermal power plant, to defend the future of the workers of the auxiliaries and the transporters. And that goes through a single strategy, which is working together. If we all work together, we can certainly get it, and, of course, that's the way we've been marked with the Town Hall of Bridges. I hope that today we would all leave this House with that common goal, which is nothing other than the defense of jobs, a fair energy transition, an energy transition that allows us to get Galicia greener. That's how the bridge workers understand it, so they understand it in the Council of Bridges their mayor, so they understand it in the Council of Bridges. We will continue to work and, of course, Galicia will continue to work for a greener future, but above all for a future with an energy transition that will ensure work and ensure the future of the Bridge region. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u356	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the full for five minutes. Members will be notified by means of an acoustic signal; i.e., a bell. The session is suspended for a few minutes. The session is resumed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u357	We continue. Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo and D. Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to the supply of business soil and the establishment and fixation of companies in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u358	To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u359	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon again, Counselor. As you see, Counsellor, we have continued to talk about industry, about the industrial crisis in our country, a crisis resulting from the failure of industrial planning for the ten years of rule of Mr.Núñez Feijóo in the Galician Union. Mr Counsellor, I remind you once again that the Autonomous Community of Galicia has assigned exclusive competence over the promotion and planning of Galicia's economic activity, through its Article 30 of its Autonomy Statute, an exclusive competence which, in addition, I want to point out, because the Galician Union of President Núñez Feijóo always applies the fan, forgets again and again its obligation to govern and seek guilty of its own incompetence. In 2016 the Economic Council put the Office of Doing Business Galicia into operation. In October 2017 the Galician Union and Fegamp signed an action protocol to encourage the establishment and establishment of companies in Galicia through the creation of the Galician Doing Business Councils initiative. The protocol establishes a series of duties to the municipalities: administrative simplification and speeding up of procedures, modification of the legal regime for opening and licensing of municipal works, modification of the tax regime for three years — which brings up to 95% of IBI, IAE and ICIO — the elimination of rates for the provision of urban services or equivalents and the opening of establishments and the setting of competitive prices in business soil pares. I mean, once again, as one partner said, that you'll surely remember, the board invites and the municipalities pay. In exchange for this, that is, in exchange for giving up part of the most important incomes that the municipalities have, the Galician Union will be blessing the municipalities that join this initiative by applying positive discrimination with a minimum of 20% on the scoreboard in certain subsidies, such as employment workers, employment workers, integrated employment programmes, support for business parks, industrial farmers and aid for excellent markets and active areas of entrepreneurship. Also, in exchange for that, they would integrate the industrial soil of their title, of the municipalities, into the Galician Trade Union Solo Observatory and, in addition, create a territorial brand as a platform for collaboration to reduce administrative burdens. By the way, they are measures included in Law 5/2017 itself, promoting the implementation of business initiatives in Galicia, which was adopted in 2017 and for which since its approval the evolution in the constitution of commercial companies in Galicia has evolved negatively and very worryingly. Thus, in 2016, 4,571 companies were formed in Galicia and in 2018 509 companies were constituted less. And the truth is, since January 2019, the data we have right now — which I will not give — seems to be even worse. Thus, the councils had to immediately apply the conditions imposed by the Galician Union if they wanted to benefit from these economic approaches called by the Government of Galicia, while the Greek Government, faithful to its way of governing, that is, to that way of governing advertising and propaganda and what they do, announces in March 2017 the birth of the Galician Business Only Observatory, between whose objectives it is to assess the needs of the sector, make proposals for action and issue periodic reports. A birth that really looks like the management of an elephant, since in February of this year, twenty-four months after the announcement of birth, you yourself announce that the Board will prepare a census to know how much industrial soil is available in Galicia. And in September, that is, one month ago, thirty months after the announcement of this Galician Business Solo Observatory, the Greek Government is responding to a question posed by the socialists that the Business Solo Observatory, which will depend on the IGVS, is currently being set up. The Board of Trustees held on 23 May 2019 authorized the commencement of the pre-project processing of the decree to regulate the Galician business soil census, which aims to know the truly available business soil and the degree of occupation of the business areas, with the object of being an instrument for assessing, planning and updating the needs of the business soil. How many more times will we be filled with misleading advertising, Counselor?, how many more times? The Socialists agree that the promotion and planning of Galicia's economic activity is necessary for collaboration between the Union and the Greek municipalities. It is absolutely necessary to work together, because it is the important, the challenge we have to face, because we have been in the 10 years in which the Council of Galicia preferred to be a government of photography, a government of advertising and propaganda instead of being a government of planning for the new challenges of Galicia of the future. Counsellor, the 10-year balance of industrial policy failure in the Galician Union leaves us 97,000 people less in Galicia, who we lost 24,000,000 people under 40, who we haven't recovered the level of occupation in 2009; in Galicia it decreases by 4.7 per cent, while in the state as a whole they have increased by 3.4 per cent. We have not recovered the level of occupation in the industry of 2009; from the second quarter of 2009 to the second quarter of 2019 we have lost 19,400 less busy in the Welsh industry. In the average industrial production index for the year Galicia is the second worst evolution of all autonomous communities, with a negative annual rate of -6.2, while in the state as a whole it is positive, of 0.4. The volume exported in the first half of 2019 for the same period of 2018 tells us that Galicia has fallen by 10%, while in the whole state evolution is positive by 1.7%, with the aggravating, Counsellor, that the most important falls are precisely in the sectors that have the greatest weight within our economy: the manufacture and the automotive industry, which represent about 50% of the total volume exported; the packaging falls in Galicia by 9.1% and the automotive industry falls by 19.7% in Galicia. In the investment in R+D+i, in heading 56.1.A, which is the European Research, Development and Technological Innovation Plan, in 2018, only 63.4% were executed in 2017 only 67.4% and in 2016 only 60%; that is, in this tenth legislation almost 94 million euros of the 258 million euros planned for this research, development and innovation game were left unimplemented. In Galicia’s 2015-2020 Strategic Plan, challenge number 3 says: double R & D spending and raise the export level to 40% of GDP. It does not seem, Counsellor, that in 2019, about to end — we will soon enter 2020 — we will achieve these goals that you yourself seek. Thus, in priority A.1.2, the promotion of business and business activity, the drive for competitiveness and internationalisation of companies and self-employed people, among the desired results that you yourself put to the right use of business soil and the other basic elements of competitiveness. As you can see, Mr. Counsellor, the data are worrying about the Welsh industry and are also corroborated by a report submitted a few days ago by the Galician Economic Forum. The Socialists believe that support for business soil is essential to shape the future of a solvency industrial policy with new alternatives. But in view of this, the actions of the Galician Council on business soil were drastic reductions in the public spending of self-government devoted to this objective. Thus, the volume actually invested by IGVS in industrial soil was, in 2016, 42 million euros...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u360	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u361	...—now finished, Mr President—in 2017 it dropped to EUR 10 million and in 2018 it dropped to EUR 870,000, i.e. 98% less. And in 2018 the initial departure submitted by the Government and approved in this Parliament by the majority party, the People's Party, was EUR 7,473,000, of those who leave without executing 6,800,000; that is, they put an initial amount of that they leave without executing 91% of the initial credit.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u362	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u363	Well, for this first shift, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u364	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Replica from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u365	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Rodríguez, I am very pleased that you are bringing here, indeed, the industrial policy of this government, because, indeed, we are developing in the wake of our different competences precisely to convert Galicia into an industrial pole and to convert Galicia into a pole of investment attraction and thus generate new opportunities in the eid of the new economy, in the iodine of digitization, into the iodine of Industry 4.0, into the iodine of innovation. In fact, the Galician Union has developed initiatives both from a normative point of view and from an industrial tissue incentive point of view. From a normative point of view, since he talks to me about a balance sheet, he could be transferred as in 2013 this government approved the Entrepreneurship Act, through which all municipal licenses in Galicia were eliminated, and which was therefore a significant change from the point of view of the facilitation of all those works that are developed in the municipalities that are not of major work. Therefore, a very important step forward in the issue of administrative simplification, which has had its continuity, indeed — you have named it — with the approval of the Industrial Implementation Act in 2017, an absolutely key law for administrative simplification, for the development of important sectors, such as the wind sector and the forest sector, and which has made it possible to develop an alliance with the Councils of Galicia and, therefore, to make an alliance in Galicia to promote industrial development. I don't ask the municipalities anything but their competition, and we self-require exactly the same as we ask the municipalities, because that's an alliance. The Galician Union only has a tax linked to business, one: documented legal acts. What this government did in 2018, in January 2018, was to eliminate that tax in Galicia. So maximum tax involvement in the powers of the Galician Union. And what we moved them to the councils is that in the wake of their competences, taxation, property tax, construction tax and works tax and the IAE, economic activity tax, they could introduce tax subsidies just to make more attractive and to make greater incentive to industrial development. And what we offer them was an alliance in that sense. We have transferred Galician board priority to their investments in those municipalities that are making an effort in tax matters. It seems reasonable. That's an alliance, working together between the Galician Union and the local administration to attract new investments from an industrial point of view, from an economic point of view to the citizens of Greece. And it's working. One hundred and twenty-five municipalities have subscribed to the Doing Business agreement. I would ask the Greek Socialist Party that, just as the Town Hall of Santiago has already begun its process to be Doing Business Town Hall, you have transferred them to all the municipalities that join the alliance with the Galician Union, because that's how we all add. And so it's not about circumventing responsibilities, it's about adding up and, therefore, sharing that capacity that we have to benefit from tax, from the point of view of access to business soil and from the point of view of administrative simplification, which other countries are doing to bring investments. And I think in that context is where we have to keep working, and therefore that Business Implementation Act provides an opportunity to continue to develop and facilitate investments in Galicia. In addition, we have taken another step, which was to approve the figure of the priority business initiatives. Any investment that exceeds a million euros in Galicia or generates twenty jobs takes precedence over dispatch in the Galician Union and the reduction of deadlines to half. Why? Because we want to facilitate investment in Galicia. And I hope that the councils too in the wake of their competences introduce similar figures precisely to favor administrative processing, because that's what employers are asking us to do: more administrative facilities, less fiscal pressure and greater access to business soil. And in that context is where we have to frame this alliance that the Galician Union already has a hundred and twenty-five municipalities, which I hope we can continue to add. The Galician Union has competences in industrial policy, no doubt, but we also need the collaboration of the General Government of the State, as we do not! This is a sum of all, of all administrations. I would ask the Ministry of Development to reduce the price of the floor in the business parks of the SEA, the Atlantic Business Only, those parks that are in Galicia, which, just as we are reducing with a 50% bonus and facilitating the right to surface, the Ministry of Development in the business parks that it has in Galicia makes the same policy. I would ask the Ministry of Industry to revert the aid to the Ferrol Plan through the Reindus Plan, which had a credit reserve precisely to favour investments in Ferrolterra, and the Government of Pedro Sánchez arrived and eliminated that positive discrimination for Ferrol. How am I not going to ask the Ministry of Industry to cooperate? Of course I do. We're going to add, Mr. Rodríguez, we're also going to add to the Ministry of Ecological Transition, of course. How can we talk about the primary aluminium production industry if the Ministry of Ecological Transition doesn't put a competitive price for producing primary aluminium in Spain? Why is the electricity price in Spain 40% higher than the average of the European countries producing primary aluminium? In Spain we will not be able to produce, continue to produce primary aluminium if the Government does not cooperate with us and sets a competitive price. That's why, of course, we have to count on the help of the Ministry of Ecological Transition. In short, Mrs. Rodríguez, this is a sum of all administrations and therefore what we are asking the municipalities is that they join this alliance. They're joining us and we've got cases of success. Benteler valued its implementation in Portugal and here there was an administration, the Galician Union, and a local administration that combined efforts, established tax subsidies, facilitated access to the business ground, facilitated administrative processing and twenty million euros that are investing in the creation of 200 jobs in Mos. That's working together, that's adding up efforts between administrations. I think the Ministry of Industry should have a good time with the arguments. Because, of course, today comes out of the IPI in August, it's true, and the IPI in August comes out of 6% in Galicia and 0.5% in Spain, right. But it leaves off the impact of energy production, eliminates the impact of the closure of the Meirama power plant, removes the impact of the closure for five months of the bridge power plant; it automatically increases the industrial production index in Galicia by 3.1%. That's industry, Mrs. Rodríguez. So, I think we just don't want to look for responsible, not look for culprits, just add up, that's what we're trying to do with the municipalities. And we're facilitating investments in Galicia, of course, yes, Mrs. Rodríguez. How can we not talk about the automotive sector? But if we're developing two models thanks to the investment of PSA with the support of the Galician Union, and we're just being a benchmark, from the point of view of the production of the automotive sector in Galicia. How can we not point out that Galicia is leading shipbuilding, being the second order portfolio throughout Europe, half of Spain? How can we not talk about a new sector, such as the aerospace sector, which brings together thirty companies, who are billing one hundred thirty million euros, and which we are developing one space pole in Galicia of unmanned planes, with the participation of multinationals, Mrs. Rodríguez? In Galicia we are being able to attract multinationals also to invest, like Boeing, like Indra or Babcock. Finally, the bet on industry, Mrs. Rodríguez, is a bet on the sum of administrations. The Galician Union is exercising its powers from a normative point of view, with the Law of Entrepreneurship, seeking the collaboration of the municipalities, and also with the implementation of measures, from an industrial point of view, with the Industry 4.0 Agenda, with support for innovation through investments, with the Galician Plan innovate and of course also through training, promoting training and hence the employability of our productive fabric. Finally, Galicia is having a bet on industry and I will continue to claim is the support of the Socialist Party in Galicia for the Socialist Party in Madrid to support the industry in Galicia. This isn't happening. The Socialist Party in Madrid is penalizing, it is discriminating industry in Galicia and thus, without collaboration from the energy point of view and in the discharge of the powers of the General Government of the State, we cannot have positive results. And the obligation you have, Mrs. Rodríguez, as a member of a party here in Galicia, is precisely to collaborate with your government so that we can continue to attract investments in Galicia. And that also means not only collaborating with the councils, as established by the Law of Entrepreneurship, but also asking for the loyal collaboration of the General Government of the State and, therefore, of the different ministries that also have competences and influences in industrial policy to collaborate with the Council of Galicia in the development of a more industrial Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u366	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u367	Counsellor, the truth is, I'm a little grateful for your speech — don't hurt me — but at first you say that you don't have to seek guilty, that you have to seek allies, that you have to work together with the councils, and suddenly the guilt of everything comes back from Pedro Sánchez. The truth is, it's a little curious, it's a little comical after its intervention. Look, you're talking about turning Galicia into a new industrialist. Well, in view of the indicators, it seems to me that they should change the way they do, or at least the indicators tell us that we're not becoming anything by industry, that we're not becoming none by the attractiveness of investment from companies outside Galicia; we're not, Counsellor, and you know perfectly what those indicators are. And he also tells us that the law was key. The truth is that it still seems pretty curious to me, because I was telling you earlier, when I was giving you the data, that in the creation of commercial companies before the approval of the law to now because we have a negative result of 509 companies and commercial companies less than they are in Galicia in 2018. And I've already told you before in 2019 -- I'm not giving data closed, because it wouldn't be fair -- I suspect it's going to be even worse. You're talking about how the Council's competences and what they have to make bonuses, what they're supposed to give up, and who also renounces Galicia's board of directors from their incomes. But look, you're asking the municipalities to give up their most important incomes, and you know perfectly well that the municipal archives have a very important rickitism for many years. And you know perfectly well that the municipalities are asking for more funding to develop their skills and to develop all those skills that the Galician Union has taken them year after year moving and to those who don't transfer the funding needed to carry them out. Look, Counsellor, before I get a given for you, which I'm going to give you right now, and it's the management carried out by the public company Management of Soil of Galicia-Xestur, S.A., that you can't consider your figures to be very satisfactory either. Thus, in 2018 the turnover of business on sale of parcels in business soil was practically half of what it obtained in the previous year. In 2017 there were 27 million euros while in 2018 it dropped to 42%, when its own forecasts were much higher, because the objective marked in its own budget memory presented by the Government of Galicia was to achieve 22.6 million euros, therefore one third below this forecast. And in terms of investments, they also remained well below the initial forecast, since you were planning to run 17.5 million euros and only executed 9.6 million euros, that is, 45% under the initial forecast. I'm going to transfer the questions that we moved to you on our initiative, on our appeal, because to see if you have anything to answer to that Solo Entrepreneurial Observatory, which we understand today that you are still in the process of being born. What evaluation did the Government make of the needs of the sector developed by the Galician Solo Business Observatory, which was born in March 2017? What was the activity of the Business Solo Observatory, created by the Galician Union and which seems not to be fully completed yet? What are the proposals for action at the various Galician business parks prepared by the Galician Solo Business Observatory? Where are those periodic reports published that had to be prepared for the Galician Business Sole Observatory? And finally, what was the activity of the territorial brand associated with the Office of Doing Business that was proposed as a collaborative platform for reducing administrative burdens to companies operating in a single window mode? I hope it wasn't once again an act of publicity and propaganda, as the German Government has used to us all these years. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u368	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Close the gap, economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u369	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Rodríguez, you do an interrogation and you ask me a series of questions and then in the interpellation you tell me other things and you want me to answer everything; I'm going to answer everything, but this technique is very old and it would be good to focus on our own interpellation. In any case, I think you have to carefully review the content of the law. The counties in Galicia do not ask them to give up any tax revenue, none. What the Galician Union is asking for is that, in case there is a new investment, for three years, make the tax subsidies corresponding to that investment, but it does not ask them to renounce any tax revenue they already have from the point of view of their activity. Therefore, it seems reasonable that the municipalities and that the Galician Union share that effort, and we have also transferred to them a number of investments in which we are developing and facilitating both the business ground and other types of employment-related activities. You're telling me about the importance of Galicia and its ability to attract investments. Galicia is the second autonomous community that is growing most in the collection of investments in the first half of the year 2019 — it had to have the data —: EUR 607 million. And if you're talking about industrial employment, you had to find that industrial employment in Galicia is 14.3%, compared to 11.9% in Spain, two and a half points higher in Galicia than in Spain. So, of course, we are developing an important effort, which, moreover, has realities, Mrs. Rodríguez. We can talk about the 600 million euros that is investing PSA in the development of the manufacturing of the smart factory. We could talk about the investment that's designing the new Albo factory in PLISAN; we could talk about the 50 million euros that are investing Boeing, Babcock and Indra in Rozas to investigate drones of unmanned systems; we could talk about the 100 million euros of Star Galicia for its expansion in the Coruña; or the investment of Greenalia's biomass plant, of 129 million euros. If you want, we can talk about the forest sector; then we'd talk about the 75 million euros that Finsa is investing in Santiago. Or investment in the agri-food sector: Inleit, EUR 100 million for its facilities in Curtis, along with Coren's 26 million to reinforce its bet on innovation. If you want, we're talking about investments in the aeronautics and, therefore, we're talking about the 25 million euros that Delta Vigo is investing in Porto do Molle. Or, if you want, we're talking about the ICT sector and, therefore, we're talking about the 23 million euros you're investing in Televes. Mrs. Rodríguez, two billion euros are currently investing in Galicia, because in Galicia there is a solvency government, because in Galicia there is an industrial policy, because in Galicia there is a policy of incentives and therefore because here we know how to attract investments despite the fact that we have neither the support of the Socialist Party of Galicia nor, in this case, the Central Administration itself. You tell me about the IGVS. Let's talk about data, of course. First, we're doing 50 percent bonus so it's not an obstacle to investments in Galicia. I'm waiting for your comment, the support I'm asking from the business parks that the Ministry of Development in Galicia has. When the Ministry of Development, in the parks you have in Galicia, will you favour investment with bonuses as you are setting up Galicia's board through Xestur? We have 97 parks, 12 million square meters, and we have helped, with business soil incentive policy, in Xestur, more than 2.8 million square meters of plots, since 2015, devoting about 62 million euros to stimulating business activity in Galicia through this route. This is the data from Gestur, Mrs. Rodríguez. And so there's a clear bet so they can develop their investments and they can keep creating jobs. In fact, this industrial soil we've been awarded will allow an investment of more than 375 million euros declared by investors themselves and the creation of more than 6 thousand jobs. Therefore, we continue in that vocation to add up by different administrations and, above all, in the issue of our competences. And of course we have a Business Solo Observatory — as it is not! — to identify what is the market trend, and therefore we are developing reports linked to the criteria for the location of companies, on standards and policies for the promotion of business soil in autonomous communities, about the demand for soil by companies and also a concrete study of the satisfaction of park companies. So it's on the website where you can access these reports, if you can consult, and therefore we will have a clear guide as to how this demand for business soil evolves, how the demands of companies evolve and therefore try to respond to what companies ask us to do. Therefore, collaboration between administrations, incentives through our industrial and innovation policies and a clear reference in Galicia, which currently has two billion euros of investment that are developing, thanks precisely to that industrial policy, thanks to this planning and, above all, to a solvency government that provides legal security and trust to investors. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u370	Thank you, Counselor. Developmental modification of the plenary session
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u371	Before we proceed with the next interpellation, please inform at today's sitting of the question, in particular at 52365, which is number 6105, of Mrs. Presas Bergantiños' question. Please contact us. Mr Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and two other Members of the G.P. in Marea, on the actions to be carried out in Galicia in order to improve the current working conditions in the telemarketing sector, as well as to avoid the relocation and loss of jobs
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u372	To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u373	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Well, this is a recurring issue. We ask you again about the precariousness of the telemarketing sector, and we do it with concern, because reality, for many years now, has been characterized by the progressive relocation of employment outside our country and the recurrent emergence of labour conflicts on the part of companies, and above all, the only thing we see on the part of the Greek Government is inaction; they don't even receive workers on many occasions; when they receive them it is late, and to give them long times. And they're not putting any measures up to now to solve this problem, which is structural in the sector as a whole. They're already losing jobs, and the job that's going on in the sector is becoming more and more precarious. The situation of the workers is very low wages, many don't reach the 700 euros per month, most of them work on partial days, twenty-five hours, twenty-five hours. There is a high rate of rotation, extreme levels of control by the company, totally disproportionate, and the threat of dismissal is a constant due to relocation. That's why we ask you again today about the general situation in the telemarketing sector, but also about a specific conflict that has emerged, which is that of the subcontracts of R Cable, which, as you know, has been mobilized for months, although they do not seem to know it, because it took a long time to receive them. And they still don't listen and they don't take a single measure, despite the fact that we're talking about more than a thousand jobs in the Coruña area alone. Their response is being totally insufficient, empty speeches to defend employment, but — as I say — not a single measure. They weren't able to convene a meeting with the parties involved, even though they were committed to it months ago. The Secretary-General of Employment has committed himself, has also approved an initiative in this House and have not even been able to convene a table to speak with the parties involved. It seems particularly serious to us what is happening and what has already happened to R Cable, because we talked about a company that was developed with public money. 30% of this company was owned by a public savings bank and received huge subsidies and huge amounts of public money for many years. And when in 2015 he decided to sell to Euskaltel, the Galician board had absolutely nothing to say, he didn't say anything then, he doesn't say anything at the moment. At that time there was a verbal commitment that the jobs would be maintained and that the workload would be maintained in Galicia. This is obviously not happening. The loss of jobs since it was bought is constant. We have just had a very recent example, which is delivering the subcontract to ZTE, based in Asturias, the management of maintenance services, and Galicia's board is still silent. The company's intentions are becoming quite clear. If we read or hear the opinion of the executives, we'll figure it out. Although they use euphemisms, as I said, they are quite clear. They talk about flexibility and changes to which workers need to be adapted, as if moving out of Galicia had been an assumed flexibility, or they're now talking about the possibility of total or partial sale of their cable networks. This news, launched by the largest shareholder in Euskaltel, Zegona, is showing which way the company intends to take. And the only consequence that will have in our country is the loss of more jobs. We understand that this is a serious situation, and the Council of Galicia — as I say — remains without doing anything at all, we don't know what the position of the Union is. They have a job defence report; even today we have had to listen to it on numerous occasions, but then the public policies that are ahead do not correspond to this supposed job defence, but rather the opposite; the only thing we've achieved in recent years of public policies of the People's Party is that we have more and more jobs and the employment we have is much more precarious. And besides, the case of R is not an isolated case. There are many companies that received millions of public grants without any kind of control, no sort of follow-up for these subsidies to be used. So, we have the case of Vulcan, we have the case of Isowat, we have a lot of cases where there were companies that received a lot of millions of public euros without which afterwards the Galician Union had followed up that jobs were maintained, that workers' working conditions had been improved, absolutely nothing. And they're allowing companies that are increasing their billing — because they're increasing their billing — to shift the job out of the country to cost even more than they already are very cheap, because, as I said, the wages and precariousness in the sector are very high. Only in the last year Euskaltel has gained 23 million euros in net profits, and most of these net benefits come from R Cable. And despite these benefits, thanks to their policies, they get that the company can do what it really wants, even though -- as I said -- they took a lot of Greek public money; when they sold it they didn't say anything, and now the only thing we have is a labour market where wages are getting lower, every time new figures like those of the false autonomouss appear. This is happening in the telemarketing sector. There are people hired as false self-sufficient, there are many workers who are unable to reach the end of the month with that one job. And it's not a matter of time, because today we bring the situation of the workers from the subcontracts of R Cable, but, as you know, we've already asked him on other occasions and on other occasions the workers from Bosch, the workers from the UK, is a recurring problem in the sector, it's not a timely case of these specific companies, it's the situation that goes through the sector. And even though you're a preferred customer, that you have an obvious negotiating capacity because you're a preferred customer, and because you've given these public money subsidies, all they're doing is keep quiet. Who is really defending the sector, the only people who are defending the sector are the workers and the workers. Because the Council of Galicia only has empty commitments, but then, in reality, we don't see a single measure, not a single measure, nothing that accompanies those words that repeat every time we ask you about this matter. And, as I say, it's not new, we've been on this subject for a long time. They deliberately forget the workers, as much as they come here to use for electoral purposes when they are interested in certain sectors of workers. In reality, of all the public policies that have been made in recent years, the only ones that have come out benefited were the big companies and, of course, the working class has not benefited at all from the policies of the People's Party. That's reality, as much as they repeat another, that's reality. They can't lie and deceive the working people who work in our country, who see how there's less work every day, how low wages are every day, and come here saying that we have more and more jobs and that Galicia is getting better and better, because it's totally a lie. And in the conflict we're dealing with today, they have a direct responsibility, because -- as I say -- they have a lot of pressure -- they're one of the top customers -- and they don't seem to understand it, because, as I say, they've been mobilising for months, and you've had a meeting with them, they've been able to answer, they say they're going to convene that meeting with all the parties, and today, months later, they couldn't even do that minimal management. Well, obviously it doesn't seem acceptable to us. The measures we are asking you today because they are very clear: what measures have been taken today to overcome the precariousness of telemarketing? Were they to convene this meeting with the parties involved? And if they're going to call her, we want to know when they're going to call her, because they haven't even done that, because they show their incompetence. For months, workers and workers have been demanding that they do something about this issue and, as I say, they have already had to take action, because at that time we can expect what would happen. You said nothing happened and the job was going to stay. Once it's seen that this is false, that the job is getting lost and that it's coming out of Galicia, why do they also continue without saying anything at all? So today, we want them to be clear, that they don't lie again and that they really prove what the People's Party commitment is, because they really come here to say, as they have been said today and as they have repeated so many times, that they support our industry, as our country is currently, I think it's an insult to all of the workers and workers, and to all of the Greeks and Greeks, who know perfectly how our country is in industry, and who, as much as they come here to falsify and manipulate, will not fool anyone. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u374	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u375	Mr. President. Mrs. Quinteiro, thank you very much for your plea, but I would ask you a little prudence, that when you get up to this stage you have a little prudence with certain statements, or at least ask at least first, because if you ask yourself, you might not commit the excess verbales you have committed in your intervention. First of all, because when you say we don't get the workers and the workers, just what you have is misinformation, simply. With which, from there, it's an expression that stays very well, and, just like when you say we use the workers, you should at least explain why you say it. But about the workers and specifically the workers who requested meetings throughout this year, we had more than ten meetings with the telemarketing sector, with multiple bilateral contacts, and so on. exercising our powers as Administration. I understand, when you come to this gallery and transfer to the Government a number of measures, which you are asking for in the framework of the Spanish and German legal order and which, therefore, you are not asking the Government not to comply with the law. So you're not asking the Government to use any kind of action against the Community, Spanish or national legal system itself. You should know that when it comes to telemarketing, we are talking about a state-wide activity, and simply the collective agreement and the working conditions that are agreed with the unions are state-level, and therefore it is a fact that we have to logically take into account when we want to promote certain measures, and therefore the labour authority is the Ministry of Labour. From there we could certainly focus, as we are certainly focusing on the workers and workers who develop their activity in the telemarketing sector, the different measures. We have asked the State — of course — to strengthen the labour inspection and we have asked the State to devote more human resources precisely to this inspection work, just as we have requested greater protection from the data of citizenship, which you have not mentioned but which is absolutely relevant in this sector, to avoid any type of transfer of data to countries outside the European Union, which is one of the concerns that workers and workers have and which we are paying attention to, and on what we have asked the State to be particularly careful. By the way, in both measures, both in the reinforcement of labour inspection and data protection, there is no response by the State at the moment. In any case, our obligation, logically, is to defend all jobs; it is so, Mrs. Quinteiro; and we act logically regardless of the situation that is proposed to meet their needs and above all to defend their rights, but the rights of all, and therefore understanding the action in the edity of the legal order. You talk to me about the workers, and you should know that in Galicia there are almost more than five thousand affiliated women, who represent almost half the total; they are more women than ever those who are working in Galicia; more than seven out of ten employees have an indefinite contract, 72%; in the service sector, 71%. The same is true of full-time people, who have 77% in total, and in services, 74%. So when we talk about job insecurity, we have to refer to data, which tells us that actually in Galicia we are working for a quality job, with an indefinite job, with a full-time job and also with a job where there is less inequality. All these indices are reflecting it, both the gender equality index, which marks us in Galicia very above the average of Spain. Finally, I think you should review your account. It is true that there are still many aspects to improve, especially in the area of equality, but it is also true that we have advanced. This government and society in general continue to work, because we don't conform, but we have to logically implement the different measures. In that sense, you move me to the situation of different companies linked to telemarketing, and in this case to company R and Euskaltel. We've been with the workers and the Bosch workers at Vigo, who, as you know, have already recovered services, in addition to diversifying their client portfolio. We have been with the workers and workers of the United States, in San Cibrao das Viñas, who knows that they are already placed with mediation recognized by the Committee of Enterprise on the part of the Galician Council and with whom we continue to collaborate to take new steps, which I would also like to thank all the components of the United States Business Committee for their willingness to establish a dialogue with the Council of Galicia and the General Employment Secretariat, precisely to improve the situation of the telemarketing sector in Galicia. And of course we are also with the workers and workers who provide services in Galicia, in this case at Euskaltel directly, or through subcontracted companies, with which we have also met. We've met with the workers, with the Comfica's company committee, we've been identifying what their situation is, and from then on logically we're going to keep in touch with all the companies involved to defend the workers' rights, because the Galician board has no doubt in the case of R, to demand that a quality service be offered, that all the labor rights of its workers be kept intact. That's our responsibility, and we won't take a step back in defending those labor rights, and, as we've already passed on to workers, I can assure them that neither R nor telemarketing companies will be an exception. That is why I appreciate the collaboration in this case of the workers, and we will be especially vigilant in ensuring that all companies comply with their obligations, respecting their rights, but logically defending the position of the workers, in a sector that has had a very important growth in Galicia, in which we have a very competitive sector from the point of view of the services established by the workers and workers of telemarketing companies, that we will continue to defend, that we have demonstrated how in the conflicts that arose in Bosch and the United States we were concretely on the side of the workers, and in the mediation work we have obtained positive results, and that we will continue to work, as we are doing with the different workers, just to improve the measures of a sector, the telemarketing sector, important in Galicia, and that we must try to improve precisely through the measures that we are consenting and that we will continue to implement through the General Employment Secretariatitself. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u376	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u377	Well, maybe you didn't hear my intervention very well. I said that sometimes they don't get the workers and they often get them late, and, in fact, I know they did, and you can read the Session Diary. I said at the meeting they held with the Secretary General of Employment in August they committed themselves to a question: to make a table with all the parties involved, and they didn't. Why haven't they done it until today? It's been months, they passed an initiative the other day, it's been two weeks, but a government has to respond urgently to urgent situations, it can't continue to delay, wait, let go for weeks. How long will they wait? When are they going to take direct action in the R conflict? Because here he took advantage of his intervention to speak of everything, to come here give us a rally, his answer was the hopeful ; yes, a rally like what we've been hearing all afternoon. [[Murmurs.]] Because the truth: it must be very cynical to come here to talk about female employment, to come to talk about female employment when the precariousness of women is a barbarity in this sector especially, when we have an increasing rate of female poverty, when we have women with a very high gender gap. And you come here to praise what, really what? The situation of women in the labour market? That there are more and more women working? How are women working? Compatible care at home and working out half a day? Working out paying five hundred euros, six hundred euros? Working without being able to reconcile? That's the working reality of the Greek women, that's the reality, working and continuing to be poor, with increasingly lower pensions; that's the reality. About coming here to make a headline that more and more women work in Galicia because I'm telling you, if you want to talk about women's work, talk about what women's work is like, what a precarious percentage of women's work is compared to men's work. Another data. You've come here to assume that 71% of the work is stable. Does that mean he assumes that 29% of Galicia's employment is precarious, the highest rate in Europe? Because that's what he left, in a very obvious way, in his intervention. All he comes here to do is talk about anything but... he used in his intervention a minute or two minutes to talk about the problem of R Cable; the rest, to come here to advertise the wonderful employment policies of the People's Party. They didn't plan anything at all when they sold R Cable, absolutely nothing, in 2015, they didn't say anything at all after giving this company millions and millions of euros public. And you say that Junta will assume responsibility for defending the jobs and will defend that the working conditions are maintained. But it's not like that anymore, and they're not doing anything, it's not a future, it's not something that's going to happen. Obviously, the risk we have on the table is higher, more than a thousand jobs are at risk in the Coruña area, but jobs have already been destroyed, services have been relocated outside Galicia. I told you a specific example, the company ZTE Asturias, but it's not the only one. This is the latest. We just saw how the possible sale of infrastructure was announced. Is this absolutely nothing to say? It's announced that infrastructure may be sold, with the consequent loss of jobs, and you, as much as you come here that will defend jobs, if you don't say a word about how you're going to avoid this sale, because the truth is like saying absolutely nothing. And here comes the competitiveness of the sector, and a sector that is a key sector for Galicia. It's a fundamental sector for Galicia that's being defended by workers and workers, and it's a sector that's condemning precarious people who work in it, with wages of misery, with days that most people don't get to the full, that many people have to be compatible with this work with another job, and that, above all, they have the constant threat of layoffs. And there are people working for subcontracts of subcontracts, as I told you, of false autonomouss; that's a reality. Why was R Cable allowed to sell — as I say — after giving him millions and millions of public euros? And why are people working in the sector allowed to do so much in these conditions? And he's here to talk about Comfia. Why were the jobs kept? For the defense that the workers and the workers have made, not at all for the mediation that the Galician Union has exercised. That the Council of Galicia since this labor conflict began the only thing it did was look elsewhere. In just two and a half months, they didn't meet once with workers and workers, they just needed to! But what they had to do was ten meetings across the sector, as if it were the same situation as what's going on in the United States or what's going on in Bosch. No, it's just that in the R problem until we found a solution to the Galician Union we had to have direct contact with the representation of the workers and the workers and direct contact with the companies. I really don't see so much difficulty in convening a table — if there's political will — with the company and with the representatives of the workers. So they verbally commit themselves to doing something that they are then unable to practice?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u378	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u379	You were compromised months ago. Two weeks ago they ratified that commitment to the Industry Committee. Well, I ask you here today to give us an orientation date, which will be within a week, within fifteen days or within a month. But workers and workers obviously need the government to be agile and give them quick solutions, not waiting five more months until the problem is solved and in a way that is probably not positive. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u380	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u381	Close this interpelment, economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u382	Thank you very much. Mrs. Quinteiro, I insist on prudence. You can't go up here and say that the Galician Union has done nothing in the case of Comfia, you can't do that. You can't do that. [[Speak words which are not perceived from the guest gallery.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u383	Please. But please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u384	I just...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u385	Hey, please! Excuse me a moment, Counselor. I think you've been given a document which is the behavior the guests should have in the gallery. And besides, I don't know if you know that this harms the groups that invited you, because at the next session you can't have guests. Then I ask you to behave. And if you don't want to behave, because you can go out freely, there's no problem. Go ahead, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u386	I'll give you all the meetings that you've had in this telemarketing sector, all this year 2019: February, Vodafone's Business Committee; April, Bosch's Business Committee; April 10, the United States Committee; April 11th, representatives of Bosch; April 25th, representatives of the United Kingdom; May 9th, meeting of this adviser, together with the Secretary-General of Employment, with the United States Committee; July 12th, director of the United States; August 1st, representatives of the workers' and workers' committees industry, workers' and workers' committees, R, Euskaltel, Comfia and Indra; November 4th, the United States Committee; September 5th, progresses training. Mrs. Quinteiro, this government is where it has to be, with the workers, defending its rights and working for the impetus of the telemarketing sector. [[Applause]] And, if I may, Madam United States, female employment... — I'm sorry — [[Laughter]] [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u387	There's a mess. I wanted to talk about the United States. We all understand that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u388	Sorry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u389	We all understand that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u390	Mrs. Quinteiro, you understand me, don't you? [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Quinteiro, female employment is a priority for this government. And of course this government wants to talk about female employment and it wants to talk about the quality of female employment. They're almost half a million affiliated women, representing almost half the total, they're more women than ever working in Galicia; seven out of every ten are hired and they have an indefinite contract. And the German labour market, if we compare it to the Spanish market, has better results for women than in Spain as a whole: we have lower unemployment rates, higher activity and employment rates and lower bias rates. And we have incentives for women, thirty-five thousand women received support from the Women's Employment Plan, with more than sixty thousand guidance and job promotion services. And we're working in women and we're going to continue supporting the woman, because we're convinced that's the way for our labour market to become more and more competitive and more quality. And in that context logically we will continue to support the telemarketing sector. It's true that the agreement is state, but it's not less true that custody and follow-up is being developed since the Labour Inspectorate. And — as I have moved you — we are listening and collaborating with representatives of telemarketing in Galicia, of course. And we're trying to solve situations with a lot of difficulty, with a lot of dialogue and a lot of realism, because we're talking about companies that logically have their obligations and have their rights. And, therefore, we have to defend the workers' rights in the light of all the elements. And, of course, we are going to address the future of the sector and we are preparing for changes that are already taking place. We will promote measures in the field of training. We will promote measures with the risk prevention sector, and we will also promote training campaigns. And so we're going to be working with the telemarketing sector and we're going to go on like this. And, of course, with R don't you tell me that the Government has an obligation to prevent a sale. But what exactly are you talking about? Concrete! Another thing is that you tell me that we have to guarantee the rights of all workers, we have to guarantee the quality of service in R and we have to guarantee the competitiveness of an important sector for Galicia as the telecommunications sector is. And there we will be and we will not take a step back, and we have already transferred it to R, that we will be absolutely demanding, absolutely, with the workers' rights, and therefore we will take care of all the actions that are taking place in Galicia, both directly and through their subcontracts. So, Mrs Quinteiro, we're in the telemarketing sector, we're defending the workers and we're defending the company committees, and of course we're being very demanding of companies, both in the telemarketing sector and in the R itself and its subcontracts. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u391	Thank you, Counselor. Interpellation of Da Julia Torregrosa Sañudo and da Paula Quinteiro Araújo, from G.P. of In Marea, about the employment policies that will put in place the Government of Greece
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u392	To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Torregrosa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u393	Thank you. Good afternoon, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. The evolution of employment is the most precise indicator of the failure of the economic management of its government, an absolute failure because, if in the economy it was a lost decade, in employment it was much worse, not because we had not moved — even worse — but because we went backwards. Today there are fewer people working in Galicia than ten years ago, when Feijóo held the presidency of the Union. It is shown by the data of the INE's active population survey, which reflects that in the second quarter of 2019 they work in Galicia 1,100,000 people, compared to 1,154,000 people who did so in the same quarter of 2009, when Feijóo began ruling. In the ten years of government Feijóo we lost 54,000 jobs; it is a disastrous result, such a negative balance that disqualifies a ruler; almost three legislations in which not only not only is employment created but it is destroyed. That had never happened before in the country's recent history. In the two years of the Laxe Government, employment rose by 11,000; in the sixteen of the Fraga Government, 70,000 jobs were created; when Tourinho left the Government in 2009, there were 37,000 jobs created in four years. He made it happen to history because he's the only president who's going to leave the Government with fewer jobs than when he arrived, despite having an absolute majority and despite ruling with this absolute majority for three legislates, twelve years. A balance which is devastating and cannot be justified by the recession, because Galicia is the worst autonomous community with the worst evolution of employment in the last decade, in the years of the Government of Feijóo; not among the worst, the worst of the seventeen autonomous communities, of the whole of the Spanish state. From the second quarter of 2009 to the same quarter of 2019 employment increased by 651,000 people in the state as a whole, while in Galicia we lost and fell 54,000 jobs. In order to be better understood, while in the rest of the autonomous communities the number of people with work increased by 700,000, here 54,000 jobs were destroyed; a huge difference that makes Galicia the territory with the worst evolution of all autonomous communities. This is a fundamental fact, because that is what it is to value the responsibility of an autonomous government, since the differential of employment evolution in its territory has to be compared with the rest of the autonomous communities. The economic and employment cycle has a high synchronisation in the state as a whole, so the responsibility of each autonomous government is the difference between territories. Of the seventeen autonomous communities that make up the Spanish State, only five have destroyed jobs in the last ten years, and Galicia has the sad privilege of leading this black list, in front of Asturias and Castile-Leon. While employment in Andalusia grew by 7%, in Catalonia and Navarre by 4% and in the Canary Islands and Balearic Islands by 18%, in Galicia we lost 5% of the job that was in 2009, when Feijóo began ruling. The destruction of employment in Galicia this decade also has very worrying characteristics. For example, almost half of the jobs that have been destroyed — 22,500 jobs, exactly — are industrial ones, which shows the very serious problem of deindustrialization that we are suffering. But we also have a serious problem with the age of people who work in our country, because the labour market is getting older. The number of people under 35 years of age employed in Galicia suffered a severe decline. Today there are 18,000 young people with fewer jobs than in 2009; this means a 40% drop; we lost four out of every 10 people under 35 years of age than when Feijó began to rule. A job destruction that affects both wage earners and, above all, self-employed people. Faced with the false entrepreneurship speech, the reality is that in Galicia there are 40,000 autonomouss less than in 2009. The responsibility of your Government, the Feijóo Government, for this negative behaviour of employment becomes evident when analyzing its temporal evolution. The worst years of job destruction were 2010, but above all the period 2012-2013, when Feijóo had already taken four years of government, beginning his second legislation; that is, these jobs were lost when all responsibility fell to his Government; in 2010, 51,000 jobs; and in the black biennium, 2012-2013, another 85,000. Obviously, you can't say that others are responsible for this; after four years -- we repeat -- all responsibility is yours. And in this case it's not worth the story of blaming the Government of Madrid. The central government is not to blame, it was Rajoy's friend government, which in those years applied with great hardness a reform of work with severe consequences on employment and labour rights. They are guilty of double departure, because they had the absolute majority in the state, in Spain, and in Galicia, but the budgetary economic policy they applied caused relapse in the second recession. In terms of employment, the balance is demolition. In the recessive phase of the Galician economy it was the autonomous community that most jobs destroyed and in the expansion phase, starting in 2014, we are among the least jobs they create. The result: Galicia is the territory with the worst evolution in employment between 2009 and 2019, in the decade of Government Feijóo. Together, it is worth noting that there is less unemployment today than in 2009, but what it does not explain are the reasons why it is possible that by destroying 54,000 net jobs, the number of unemployed people is reduced by 26,000. In explanation of this apparent contradiction — less unemployed though there are fewer people at work — the drama that threatens the present, but above all the future of Greek society, is hidden. Since 2009, the active population has fallen to 80,000. This means unemployment is not low because people find a job, but because there are fewer people looking for a job. In a single data you can synthesize the demographic and labor drama we're constantly reporting. Galicia has only 6% of the active Spanish population, but between 2009 and 2019 50% of the drop in assets in Spain corresponds to our country, 1 out of every 2; figures which are evidently, Counsellor, very negative, despite the five years of economic growth, and which generate a logical and enormous concern. In the face of the economic cycle change that is coming, we see that we have not yet recovered the level of employment, and we already face again the threat of economic downturn, weak growth and job destruction. One data highlights the disastrous balance sheet of the Feijóo decade in the industrial sector. Today there are 22,000 industrial workers less than when he started ruling. In 2009 the German industry gave employment to 199,000 people; in 2019, to 177,000 people. In ten years 22,500 jobs were destroyed, which is to lose 1 out of every 10 jobs in the industry. The problem is that this deindustrialization process is becoming more negative in our country than in the rest of the state. Galicia is the second autonomous community with worse evolution in industrial employment in the last decade, with much worse values than in the vast majority of autonomous communities, which only suffer from loss of industrial employment. 65,000 industrial jobs were lost throughout the country, of which 22,000 correspond to Galicia; that is, 1 out of every 3 lost jobs in the industry correspond to our country, which has only 6% of all industrial jobs. It has supported 33% of job destruction in the last decade. And, to finish, it's easy and easy to ask you a question that you should answer: why have 54,000 jobs been lost in the decade that have been ruling, making Galicia the autonomous community with the worst evolution in employment among the 17 that make up the state? I think this has to get them to think about the kind of policies they're making and the kind of solutions they want to propose. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u394	Thank you, Mrs. Torregrosa. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u395	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Torregrosa, if you like, we're going to order the debate a little bit, because you're talking about your questioning about the start of the crisis, about the economic scam of the year 2007. That's what you pick up in your inquiry, and it also gives the data about how jobs vary by autonomous communities. I remind you that in 2007 who was ruling in Madrid was the Socialist Party, and who was ruling in Madrid with the support of United Left and the Nationalist Block, and that in 2007 what was ruling in Galicia was the Socialist Party too. So in 2008, all of you -- you too -- denied the economic crisis. I'll give you what President Zapatero said in the debate of the state of the nation in 2007: "The next legislature will achieve full employment in Spain. I do not want it on a joint basis, I want it finally, and that will require new changes in the structural conditions of our economy. I just want to, and so I put it in the line of our last stage - stable employment -. We are in a position to compromise an objective: reduction of temporality to 25%." Felipe González, 3 July 2007. But that same year President Touriño, in the debate on the state of autonomy, said the same thing here in this Parliament: "Galicia has" — said President Touriño — "at this time of the greatest volume of employment, the most active labour market in all of his history. It has grown the number of assets, led in Spain to create jobs and lower the unemployment rate by two years in 3.6 points, which allows us to harbor well-founded hopes of gaining full employment in a reasonable time." Parliamentary Journal of Sessions of the Galician Parliament of 2 October 2007. What are we talking about, Your Honor? Exactly what economic policy and what industrial policy have we talked about that has been the basis of the most important recession we have had to face since the year 2009-2010 by this government and from December 2012 by President Mariano Rajoy in Spain? What are we talking about, the 50,000 jobs that lost the Bipartite in 2009? Are we talking about that? Or are we talking about the measures we had to implement precisely to correct the loss of jobs in Spain and Galicia? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I remind you that Spain, based on that speech by President Zapatero, has lost 3 million members and members of Social Security. That's the data, just as the data is that after President Touriño's speech -- October 2007 -- likewise adventured full employment, Galicia lost 53,577 memberships of Social Security. If you want, we'll talk about data. So it seems to me that we have to order the debate if we really want to have a serious, rigorous debate and try to interpret the different steps that can be taken. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because, if you want, we're talking about measures that encourage employment. Of course, you in your group have some interesting proposals since 2009: they have closed Elnosa, they will close Meirama, they ask their parliamentary group to close The Bridges, the Cence and the Reganosa. [[Laughter]] They're opposed to any wind project or miner, they're opposed to building military ships, they're opposed to the Aerospace Pole of Rozas, they disqualify entrepreneurs and companies that employ thousands of people like PSA or Index. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] What is your model?, come here to give statistics? Now I'm going to give data too, but I believe, honestly, that if we want to order the debate we'll have to be central exactly.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u396	Mr. Lago, please, you're not in the debate, there's Mrs. Torregrosa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u397	We're talking about EPA data. The data from the EPA of the second half of the year 2019, which are already published, clearly show that Galicia has more than 21,200 busy than the average of 2018, which is the data you are using in its interpellation - 21,200 busy more -. We have therefore recovered 92.1 % of the employment in 2007 and not 90.3%. It's clearly insufficient, Your Honor, we know we have a lot of work left to do, but logically we have to be consistent with what we want to move with the figures and policies proposed by the different groups. Allow me three more data from EPA. The first: in Galicia 617,100 households have all their assets occupied; i.e. 8 out of 10, 82.5%; in Spain 3.2 points less, 79.3. The second: In Galicia 2 out of 3 employees have an indefinite full-time contract, 64.7%, the same as the average in Spain. The third: in Galicia the unemployment rate is 11.3%, 2.7 points less than the Spanish measure, which is 14%; it is the eighth autonomous community with lower unemployment rate in Spain. Does it seem to you that the data are not reflecting the efforts we are making in the area of economic policy and industrial policy and the efforts the entrepreneurs are making, precisely, to deal first, at the moment, with the crisis and now, with the context of economic downturn, in which we are meeting precisely with the inaction and instability that the Government of Madrid is generating? Mrs Torregrosa, reality is not a single data, it does not come here to try to reflect a whole reality of industrial policy, economic policy, employment policy and training policy. I'll get you something. These days there was a very important event in Galicia, where Galicia was a reference to debates from the point of view of the Atlantic vision. He celebrated in Toxa a few days ago. And his president, the Greekman Amancio López Seixas, said the following -- which I already share -- "The response to the profound changes that we are living through the technological revolution, globalization, the green economy, a new slowdown, does not go back proposing nationalisms and populisms of all kinds." "No need to fear transformations, you must drive them..." [[Mr. Lake Peñas pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u398	Mr. Lago...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u399	"...to regain confidence in the future." That's where we are, and we offer the tender hand but, of course, with proposals to deny employment and industry in Galicia, so logically, it's much more difficult. You know that the Galician Union has a job schedule, the Employment Agenda 20, which is a concrete plan to accompany economic and social agents in these challenges, and there are concrete commitments. We mark ourselves as a goal at least to generate 80,000 jobs; we have been in this legislation created more than 61,000 and more than 128,000 since the worst moment of the crisis; that is, since January 2014. And, in fact, today we have more than 1,029.000 Greeks and Greeks on the social security agenda, as in April 2009. That's the data, Your Honor, of the effort we're making in Galicia and that I have to put into effect, because it's enabling us to actually give a clear answer to the needs of our productive fabric. And we're doing this with specific policies, giving you flexibility in training, allowing entrepreneurs to provide the training they demand. For the first time in Galicia, entrepreneurs can design their training, implement what they really need and are not subject to which they simply are not useful. We're boosting female employment, we're driving entrepreneurship, we're driving innovation, we're also promoting policies linked to self-employment. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we are supporting, through employment policies, job creation through training, through economic policy, industrial policy, and I am asking for coherence, not to come here to give a given; I ask for coherence because employment policy has to be accompanied by an industrial policy which is set by industry, which is affixed by innovation, and so far it is not, unfortunately, its parliamentary group. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u400	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Torregrosa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u401	Thank you very much. Counselor, it's disappointing to your answer, of course, because it doesn't look like a counselor; I mean, it's not a person who's telling us new responsibilities that matter to him and what contrasts with the data and the problems we're reporting here. The figures we gave you from my group are from 2009 to 2019, so you're not going to tell me that the fault of the entire ten-year state of absolute majority rule in Galicia and the state, in Madrid, of Mr. Feijóo and Mr. Rajoy, is what happened in 2007 and that you're unable to change these economic trends in ten years, because, truly, if what they mean is that, it's much more dramatic than what I've just denounced; it's to get out running. In fact, there's a high synchronisation in the employment cycle in Galicia and the rest of the state, but what we're reporting is that here all the worse works, is that evolution was much worse and that figures are much worse; so much worse that we're in the state queue. So this is what we're reporting. And what you'd have to tell us is how they think about solving it and where this series of errors come from in their policies that lead us to be in this precarious situation today. So, from our point of view, and not just ours -- it won't be the Forum or the Toxa Symposium, but yes from different forums, more technical than political, about economics, like the Galaga Economics Forum, the Economics Council, the studies of the Abanca Foundation -- there are also a series of advices where everyone agrees on what are the mistakes and failures in the Greek economic strategies and how should be solved. It seems you don't want to listen to any of them. But, well, failure is evident that it is caused, firstly, by the exhaustion of our country's productive model, which they do not want to change, defined by the weakness of traditional sectors and the lack of diversification and new activities in the future. They don't have a project to change all that either. That's why we grow less than the average and generate less jobs. Secondly, we can tell you that the austerity policy you've carried out all these years has been terrible, it's proven. The cuts in spending are largely responsible for a decline in the employment policies of the Union. From 2009 to 2018 the initial budget fell, but above all it stopped spending a significant part of the resources intended to promote people's employment and employability, which is what you say they want to do now after ten years, as if they had just arrived here. If we compare the cost actually executed in 2009 and 2017 in real terms, the hardness of the cut is evidenced. Employment policy resources have been cut by 58%, more than 200 million euros in absolute values. There's an inability -- and it's still being there today -- to reach agreements in social dialogue. They absolutely refused to reach such agreements with employers, with unions and to promote employment policies, breaking with a long tradition of agreements between social agents and the Union, with all previous presidents. I mean, I think they have to finish making window policies, campaign policies, policies that don't balance any of the mistakes they made in their government policies with an absolute majority of twelve years, with their government, Mr. Feijóo's government, lying and hiding reality. They can't go on like this, deceiving citizenship. You can't fool people all your life. They can't forget what service they have to perform to the people who voted for them and why you're here. To impoverish the Greeks and the Greeks is to let Galicia die. I can't believe these policies are just inability to manage the territory better. I believe that, truly, there is a political will behind all this mess, these twelve years, which, unfortunately, neither do you want to acknowledge nor, therefore, want to solve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u402	Thank you very much, Mrs. Torregrosa. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u403	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Torregrosa, I insist on coherence. You're talking about a exhaustion of the production model. Let him read some headlines: "At Marea you see there is no need to modify the Law on the ground for projects that urge PSA." "At Marea denounces the military use of the Rozas aerodrome and that in it no one job has been created." "In Marea it is assured that the creation of the Galaga Forest Industry Agency shows that PP understands the mountain only from the productive sphere." "We can push the government to shut down all the thermals in 2025." "In Marea calls on the Government to review the extension of Ence." "Yolanda Díaz asks to paralyze the plant of Reganosa." "In Marea he asks to paralyze the works of the wind farm in Mouriños." "In Marea it calls for the paralysis of two wind farms in Paradela and Serra das Penas because it is more an abuse of the countryside." Where are we, Mrs. Torregrosa? Where are we?, in paralyzing everything or in supporting a production model based on industry 4.0, innovation and the new strategic sectors of Galicia? Where are we? [[Applause]] Mrs. Torregrosa, the Galician Union is pushing Agenda 20 for employment, we are offering and implementing new digital services, carrying out the modernization of jobs, implementing the new 2019-2020 Employment Training Plan, which plans to reach more than 28,000 Welsh and Welsh, also supporting women's employment, youth employment, inclusive employment and self-employment. Today we put in place a new training programme, precisely dual training, dedicated to people with different abilities, with a multi-year training of three years adapted precisely to inclusion. And we're also working with the unions themselves and the Confederation of Galician Entrepreneurs themselves in the wake of social dialogue. We are acting on an active employment policy, with training aid. In the previous plan, we benefit 23,000 people through an offer of more than 3,500 courses, and our goal is to train more than 50,000 Greeks and Greeks in the very next plan, allocating nearly 135 million euros. We are allocating EUR 200 million each year through active employment policies; budget which we are also implementing. In 2018 the Galician Union committed about 85% of the current budget, and precisely the capacity to run the Galician Union is one of the reasons why Galicia is placed in the third position in the evaluation of the annual employment policy plan of the Ministry of Labour. And I don't tell Junta, says the Ministry of Labour, that we are one of the three autonomous communities that we have the highest assessment in this annual employment policy plan. In short, these are policies that allow us to generate jobs in Galicia and, above all, make available industrial policy and innovation policy the best possible human capital. You know we have an Industry 4.0 Agenda, and Galicia, along with the Basque Country, is pioneering and is in the vanguard, precisely, to encourage small and medium-sized companies to introduce new technologies and their digitization processes. We have mobilised 935 million euros, helping 9,000 companies, and in the next plan 2019-2022 we will allocate 350 million euros to new key measures precisely to promote digitisation. Just like we have an innovation agenda with which Junta is pushing a new industry, more pointed, of greater added value, and above all that it's working on its differentiation and knowledge, mobilizing about 1,300 million euros and planning to reach about 1,800 million euros of mobilization. We have industrial policy, we have innovation policy, we have an active employment policy that is meeting the needs of companies, and we have ultimately a competitive productive fabric that is able to respond to the needs of the market, increasing its exports. The only thing we ask you to do is to leave the negation and add precisely to the efforts being made by the entrepreneurs and the Council of Galicia itself. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u404	Thank you very much, Counselor. I was wondering if we'd stop for two minutes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We suspended two minutes and then we continued full. Let's call the bell. [[The session is suspended at eight thirty-three minutes in the afternoon and resumed at eight thirty-eight minutes.]] Developmental modification of the plenary session
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u405	If you like, let's resume the session. I want, anyway, to thank the Industry Advisor for this afternoon's effort. Some initiatives were from the previous full, and how I think tomorrow you have to go out to Brussels you had to make this accumulation this afternoon. So we go back to a change in the agenda, and we go to questions to the Government. Question by José Manuel Lago Peñas and Da Julia Torregrosa Sañudo, from G.P. of In Marea, on the assessment made by the Government of Greece of foreign investment data in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u406	To put the question, Mrs. Torregrosa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u407	Thank you. Counsellor, the latest known 2019 data on direct foreign investment capture are as negative as worrying. Do you know what the figure was for Galicia? I'm telling you, 6.7 million euros, less than 7 million in three months, just two million euros a month. An absolute failure of what gives rise to a question: Mr. Counsellor, what goes to Poland? The data of the first quarter of 2019 is neither an anecdotal nor a consequence of the slowdown in the European economy. In 2018, Galicia only raised 65.4 million euros of direct foreign investment, only five million a month. This low figure assumes that Galicia has only been able to capture 0.1% of all foreign investment in Spain; not 1%, no 0.1%, the lowest value for over a decade. Counsellor, the failure - again - on this subject is absolute. Galicia accounts for 5% of state GDP, but only attracts 0.1% of investment; that is, 50 times less than Galicia's economic weight - 50 times less! - I know that foreign investment concentrates on state capital and that this inability to attract investment is a historical problem of Galicia. The problem is, every year it's just getting worse. 2018 deserves special attention, because it is the first full exercise of vigil of its star law to encourage investment, the law of implementing business initiatives, of which you speak all the time. The 2018 outcome is so bad that it questions the strategy of its government. In 2018, 65 million euros were collected, a figure that is only half that achieved in 2017, exactly 42% less. An absolute failure. In 2018 foreign investment has reached a historic peak in Spain, nearly 50,000 million euros, almost twice as much as in 2017; on the contrary - as it has been said here - were 65 million, almost half 2017, a huge difference that points to the absolute failure of the Government of Mr Feijóo and the Council of Galicia. So we ask you a question so you can have an opportunity to explain and answer -- please this time -- this failure of your government in the capture of foreign investment. Mr. Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u408	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u409	... –I'm done – I'll make it even easier for you to answer so you don't have to get complicated by quoting the Bipartite, quoting what happened in 2007...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u410	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u411	...or what happened to any of the autonomous communities of the state. Your party's been ruling for ten years...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u412	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u413	...and would answer the question if you -- finished -- had been able to cite five business projects...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u414	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u415	...of an industrial nature, of more than 100 employees, who assumed the installation of new factories, not the purchase of existing companies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u416	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u417	...in the ten years they've been ruling.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u418	In questions, you know we're usually fairer. Please adapt to time, because if you don't... The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u419	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Torregrosa, I give you a data of foreign investment: the foreign investment in Galicia in the first half of 2009 was the second most growing in relation to the same period of 2018 throughout Spain, exactly EUR 607 million. At the same time, Spain is reducing its foreign investment by 60%, with what data are we left?, with 2018 or with the first half of 2019? Your Honor, you know perfectly well that foreign investment data needs a lot of timing, a lot of timing, not only about how communities compute the investment they make with general funds from local subsidiaries. You know that this statistic, in addition, is influenced by large operations that take place once and then do not repeat, but remain in the territory. He knows perfectly well that it's not the same thing to talk about productive investment as non-productive investment, such as sales of toxic brick portfolios, which make financial entities, among others. And you know perfectly well that this data does not take into account where the investment is actually carried out, but where the company is based. So trying to come here to give the picture that Galicia is unable to attract foreign investment thanks to its industrial and economic policy is simply not wanting to see reality and not really open the angle of analysis, really, to industrial policy, to the economic policy that the Government is making. You know that right now - I've moved it in my previous appearance - if you're developing in Galicia more than €2,000 million investment and there are companies, such as PSA, which are creating 1,200 jobs thanks to the support of the Galician Union; that Benteler opened a second factory, with an investment of €20 million, creating 200 jobs; that an investment is being developed to create a forest biomass plant in Curtis; that an investment is being made by Inleit of more than €90 million, etc., and so forth, up to €2 billion. That's the reality. So, I think if you want to be serious about economic and industrial policy, let's have a serious debate, but don't come here with an isolated data to try to discredit a whole policy that exists to favour direct foreign investment in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u420	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u421	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u422	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Torregrosa has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u423	Thank you, Counselor. I see you couldn't answer the question. I no longer ask you for five, I ask you for three, I ask you to ask you for some, I ask you to give specific data about exactly what happens with foreign investment in our country, because it really seems that all of this that is telling me has nothing to do with real values. Well, here looking above the last trimester of the Economic Forum, we see that in the last trimester it seems to be confirmed the change in the growth pattern added to the GDP of the Greek economy, which in the last five quarters presents only positive domestic demand approaches. On the other hand, external demand decreases 1.3 points GDP growth in the second quarter of the year, which contrasts with the positive increase of seven tenths in Spain as a whole, a point according to the last revision. Since 2005 Galicia had not chained five consecutive quarters with negative approaches from the outside sector. The macroeconomic framework reflects that for the third consecutive quarter both holdings and imports are contracted, lowering sales outside Galicia by 8.6 % and purchases by 6.6%. If only trade relations with third countries are considered, we see exports coming down in the second quarter by 10.5%, driven by the fall of 30.7% in the car sector and by 41.6% in the energy sector. I mean, I don't know what data you're talking about, honestly. So, I think it's just like, more than I stick to something I'm asking -- which is a very simple question -- that you answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u424	Thank you very much, Mrs. Torregrosa. For the replica shift, by the Government, the Councillor for Economics, Employment and Industry has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u425	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I give you data, but logically, I think we must continue the debate. I'm telling you about investment data in the automotive sector: 600 million euros of PSA investment, creating 1,200 new jobs; and an investment of 20 million euros of Benteller, creating over 200 jobs. I'm talking to you specifically about the aviation sector: EUR 50 million invested by Boeing, Indra and Babcock, which are creating as a whole, on the Rozas aeronautical pole, about 500 jobs. I'm telling you about the 25 million euros you're investing Delta Vigo in Porto do Molle. I'm talking to you in the forest sector about 75 million euros that Finsa is investing. I'm talking to you in the agri-food sector about a recently committed investment by Eurosérum, a Chinese group that is investing in Monforte de Lemos. I'm telling you 100 million euros from Inleit for the new facilities in Curtis. I'm telling you about the new factory that's designating Albo in PLSAN, or the 100 million Euros of Star Galicia. I'm telling you, in the energy sector, about 125 million euros from a biomass plant in Greenalia, about 200 million euros that Endesa has invested, and we hope the government doesn't stop it from coming. And I'm talking to you about 470 million euros that are investing right now in Galicia to develop 18 wind farms that will come into operation on December 31, 2019. [[Applause]] Mrs Torregrosa, this is Galician reality from the point of view of investment, this is reality from the point of view of job creation. Indeed, we have a law of business implementation which, from a normative point of view, is favouring investments, because it allows time limits to be reduced by half, maintaining guarantees, allows for the promotion of business soil and allows, with the municipalities of entrepreneurs, to reduce taxation as well. We're developing a policy of access to the corporate soil by boosting 50% of the price of the soil and allowing the development of the right to the surface with an annual canon of only 1.5% of the price of the plot for the first two years. We are allowing the development of polygons by the municipalities to be flexible, boosting and improving tax incentives. Your Honor, there is an industrial policy of investment incentive, of attracting new investments and promoting innovation. That is the reality of Galicia, and, above all, the merit is of the entrepreneurs who are betting on Galicia, the workers and their knowledge, who are allowing Galicia today to have one in industrial policy and innovation policy. [[Intelligible.]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u426	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question, 7.5. Question from Noa Presas Bergantiños and five other Members from the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia to avoid the effects in Galicia of the relocation of supply and network management services of the R Cable telephony company
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u427	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u428	Thank you, President. Counselor, I don't know if you've noticed from your multicolor ivory tower with which you just illustrated us in the previous questions, but the workers and workers who work for companies that provide R services in our country have been mobilising for a long time, very worried and worried about their jobs; since the summer. They represent a clear example of where it has led us to the loss of Galicianness of our business sector and our economic fabric. They also represent the failure of this merger of boxes, because it has led to a de-investment of a key sector, that of telecommunications, where we could be vanguarded today. I want to remember here today that R, which was born as a Galician company, was first bought in 70% by a Luxembourg fund in 2010, and then 100% by Euskaltel. And, from those dusts, these muds. Today Euskaltel agreed to hand over to Chinese ZTE the operation services and network maintenance services, which so far provided from Galicia, through different companies, such as Comfia, Collaborate, Indra or Plexus. And the risk of this operation, manifested in the possible loss of 1,000 jobs in the Coruña metropolitan area, indicates that it is carrying services slowly, drop the drop, towards other latitudes of the state. It means that we are faced with a situation that is so serious that we don't even talk about jobs that are destroyed and that cease to exist, but they are jobs that there could be in Galicia and that there will be, at the same cost, in Asturias or in Euskadi. I have here the cotton test : an ad to search for teleoperators with the Greek language in Euskadi, to provide these services for R, which today are being given in our country; posts that will be kept in Asturias or in Euskadi, costing exactly the same for this company. [[Mrs. Presas Berganginos is showing a document.]] So it's a political decision and it requires a political reaction on the part of the Galician Union, which is not in place. In summer months we were also afraid, particularly for a number of Comfia jobs. Thanks to the mobilization of these workers and the negotiation they engaged in alone, they were able to stop this first dismissal. But that doesn't mean that the situation is solved, much less it's solved in the other companies, affected by many of them too by other telemarketing derivatives, customer care and so on. So, we from BNG today what we want to ask you for is a commitment. He's upstairs in the workers' rostrum of these companies. You can take advantage of this intense evening that accompanies you to commit yourself to constituting what this Parliament has already unanimously demanded last week and what they have already asked for on August 1 when they were received by the General Employment Secretary, which is that there is a galley negotiating table and that the board feels with R, with workers and workers, and that it demands that these posts remain in our country. What else has to happen, Counselor, so that you leave your ivory tower and do this, which is so simple? Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u429	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u430	Madam President, I sincerely regret that I paid no attention to the debate with Mrs Quinteiro, more than anything because it was a debate that I think was enriching. Surely if you paid more attention, you wouldn't move any of the questions in your question. Of course you're not interested in the government's explanations, and it's probably just about who wants to hang a medal, I don't know very well why. What I can tell you is that, of course, R's workers, subcontract workers, all telemarketing workers and workers need no direct interaction through any parliamentary group, because they have it directly with the Galician Council, and so we're demonstrating it with all the meetings we've been conducting, not only with the workers, but also with the companies, because logically, the work has to be that. Surely you should also be concerned about what governments are doing in which they participate in the Nationalist Block of Galicia. You should, because you'd probably find yourself there as well that Euskaltel contract workers are requesting intervention. Surely he should take care of himself where he participates and collaborates with the Socialist Party. In any case, we are acting with complete transparency and full interaction with the workers, listening to what their needs are, ensuring the fulfilment of all their rights and, of course, promoting dialogue with the companies, with the workers, to find solutions. We're finding solutions, and so on. Of course, the Union shares the concern of the workers' representatives, and the Union will adopt that active position in the defence of jobs in Galicia; also, logically, for all companies serving Euskaltel. Know that we met in August with the workers' representatives, including the Comfia Company Committee, and know that we're working to find a solution, because we're the first to want to solve the problems. It just seems like the government is here to create problems. No, Mrs. Presas, we're going to solve problems and we work to solve them. Of course, we're going to keep in touch, we're going to be very firm demanding the quality service of companies, we're going to be very firm with R and all telemarketing companies to meet and guarantee the workers' rights, and of course the workers know that it will be the Council of Galicia to ensure the fulfilment of all their rights and to respect them. Of course, we will act firmly with all companies, because there is, logically, a responsibility in their connection with the territory. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u431	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Presas Berganginos has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u432	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, listen to me, believe me. If you will, you can call me "Miss United States", which you are pleased with the question from the United States. I'll tell you when I get back to my job, if it still exists. [[Applause]] Look, whoever didn't attend must have been you. I understand that he has spent many hours imprisoned in this plenary, but I was the one who repeated to him that data that these workers and workers received on August 2nd. But it's been two months, and they didn't receive them again and they didn't accept the commitment they made orally last week in the Greek Parliament and during these two months in municipalities like the Coruña, like Oleiros and the entire metropolitan area of the Coruña. There was at no time a meeting together-workers-enterprises, at no time! Don't tell me milongas, Mr. Count, because that didn't exist. We want to put pressure on this to exist, because while you say to the air you're looking for solutions, the truth is that up to now the only solution you've come was for a timely case and for the mobilization force of workers, not for any management of the Galician Union. You explain to me what successes you're reaping with R's question, when we're seeing -- I myself taught you -- Euskadi's job offers looking for teleoperators and teleoperators in English to serve R's services, and when you know more about what I'm saying is beyond the telemarketing issue, because we're talking about workers who provide all kinds of services, including services to Galicia's own board. You're going to Galician Board not talk to your R provider, while you're taking the jobs they should watch for public administration services to another autonomous community, to another country? Man, of course, very normal to us, Mr. Count. So, unless you come here with prefabricated speeches you're extremely concerned about and working very hard and sitting down to do it. I insist, the workers are upstairs...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u433	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u434	...you can make an appointment right now for the day when they and you are better off, and from there to demand the company. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u435	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. Mr. Conde López has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u436	Home!, this speech of places common to which you have been used to in your interventions, in which you do not give any information or any concrete measure. In any case... [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u437	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u438	...we, gentlemen, are absolutely transparent and we are absolutely clear with the workers, absolutely. So we didn't transfer any sort of expectations that we couldn't meet, and all the commitments we made with them we've already made. What you can't attribute to me, or you can't assign to the Galician administration, is the control of private companies. I hope you don't want to transfer to the employees that the Administration has effective control over a private company. I hope, I hope, unless you think, in your concept, that everything has to be public, and that it wants to nationalize all companies. I hope you don't want to give the Greek administration the power to terminate contracts to aid on the basis of the agreement. I hope you're not trying to transfer to the workers that a responsible administration can do that. And I hope you don't intend to transfer to anyone who the Galician Union can break the law. I hope, I hope. So, Your Honor, I think that when we talk about such an important and so relevant topic, where, as you know perfectly well, labour regulations in many cases if you are developing according to the different conventions, we have to say that we have to ensure that these agreements are complied with and, at the same time, we have to be careful to identify how they can be solved. That's why I invite the representatives here present to continue to trust the Galician Union, because the Galician Union will be with them, and the Galician Union will identify any measure that logically can guarantee the maintenance of the job. Of course, we will be, as I have already transferred you, absolutely powerful in defending the rights of the workers of R, of Comfia, because here it seems that the Union of Galicia is inhibited. No, we've been with the workers and we've been with the companies, and we're identifying and mediating to solve solutions and above all to secure jobs. So you should consult more in your party what you're doing in the municipalities where you're co-governing and surely from there we could exchange relevant information. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u439	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. The next question, 7.6, was welcomed at the request of its authors. Let's move on to the next one, 7.7. Question by D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the measures that will develop the Galician Union to deal with the crisis of the Barreras company in the region of Vigo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u440	To put the question, Mr. Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u441	Mr. Conde, do you sleep quietly at night? I assure you that there are hundreds of Barreras and Vulcan workers who don't sleep peacefully at night, and there are hundreds of workers from Vigo Naval Assistants who don't sleep quietly at night, Mr. Conde. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] Just as in the world of Yupi of his councillorship, his government, and the "Galiza goes well," of "Galiza quality", they are and live quietly, but in Vigo district, no; in the ship of Vigo, no. And in many parts of the country they don't live and sleep peacefully because of the situation they're going through, Counselor. We've come here to ask him questions and also ask him to face, not to hide himself, Mr. Counsellor, in front of the very grave situation that is living on two Vigo shipyards that were emblems of the shipbuilding of this country, which are Barreras and Vulcano. We want you to face it, because you're the industry advisor in this country, and you refused to receive Vulcan's company committee, who came walking from Vigo to Compostela to ask for an interview, and you didn't have the decency to receive them. Instead, you've been very smart to take pictures, Mr. Count. Look, look here. Mr. Count, please, the photo. [[Laughter]] You then took this kind of picture with these fugitives of justice, with these gentlemen who are real criminals, sought for by Mexican justice. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, this band of fours who are here with Mr. Fexóo and Mr. Count. [[Mr. Economics, Employment and Industry Advisor, Count López, looks at the photograph Mr. Bará Torres shows.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u442	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u443	What's the matter, they don't like to be shown the photos? Yes, they are sought and persecuted by justice these gentlemen who took pictures of Mr. Conde and Mr. Fexóo. [[Protests.]] These were the dangerous friendships. [[Applause]] Look, you're in charge of this situation. If this story were a film, there would be corruption in Pemex, corruption in Miami or corruption in Barriers. You are responsible and complicit for acting as Pemex's testafers and avalistas, for lying and cheating to get electoral receipts -- with live connections from the included Gallega Television -- for embarking the Barreras on a ruinous adventure at Pemex's fiasco...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u444	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u445	...yes, yes, by supporting an inept leadership that led the ship to the stones, by supporting irresponsible entrepreneurs friends of the People's Party. They're selling the country to pieces, they're selling it to investment funds, to voyeur funds. So in the face of this dramatic situation, what we're asking the board is that it intervene and there's a public intervention to create a public business group, a public service, captained by Vulcan and Barreras. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u446	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Silence! The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u447	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Yupi Worlds of the Galician Nationalist Block is a good title for a film. What I would ask of you is a little bit of respect, with regard to the Government, with regard to this Parliament, and above all a little caution in your statements. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I calmly tell you that last Friday this councillor has been meeting with Vulcan's committee, and I've had the opportunity to listen to your situation, as I've had the opportunity to hear it on many occasions over the past few years, and since then the Galician board has been and will always be with the company committee. Don't come here to raise a false witness. [[Applause]] In any case, you're still using your resistance manual. This is the parliamentary policy of the Galician Nationalist Block: all against the PP. Very simple: what is a state decision? The responsible one, the Galician board. What's a business decision? The responsibility of the Galician Union. What is this uncontrast opinion? Anyway, the person responsible is always Galician. You confuse, Mr Bará, the opposition to unity with the opposition to Galicia. It has nothing to do with it! But why are you against Galicia? Why are they against the naval sector? Why are they against industry? Why do you want Galicia permanently to go wrong? Why? What do you think, that Galicia is its independent bubble? No, no. [[Murmurs.]] As for Pemex, if this government hadn't promoted Pemex to invest in Galicia and charge two fleets, we wouldn't be talking today about Barreras. From there we can start talking about what you want. [[Applause]] And the reality is that 1 fleet was built in Barreras and 1 fleet was built in Navantia, and this allowed for a key transition so that today the Greek naval sector is the second most contracted region in Europe. That's the reality. And the reality is, indeed, Barriers has developed a portfolio of orders of EUR 900 million. Didn't Pemex approve those contracts? Didn't he evaluate them? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Are there any such contracts? Listen, if there's a situation now of difficulty from the point of view of the shareholder situation, from the point of view of the development of the workload, the Galician Union will be there, as it was in 2012 with Vulcano and how it was with Vulcano in 2017, supporting the naval sector. I regret that the Galician Nationalist Block continues against Galicia, against the naval sector and against the workers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u448	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Bará Torres has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u449	Mr. Conde, we haven't come here to throw the botafume, we've come here to ask for responsibilities, to make a critical and demanding opposition. And, of course, if you received Vulcan workers, I suppose it would give them some way out of their desperate situation. Because you told them: collaborate to finish the boat, that then we'll look for an investor. [[Murmurs.]] And now the Union has thrown us in the way. That's how we act with respect to the naval industry and the industry of this country. And you won't give us lessons in defending this country, Mr. Count! [[Murmurs.]] Look, you're responsible for the fiasco and the failure of the Pemex operation, which was a real fiasco, and you don't want to recognize it. It's reality! You promised 24 ships, and what about the 24 ships? They built 2! And now they're in this real mess where they've put their managements, just like their managements in Miami. Those are the operations of "winners" you do and Mr. Feijóo. And now, above all, we have the threat of a speculative background, a voyeur background, which also wants to get close to the yard. And you're putting on your rug because you're a salesman-- calm down! [[Murmurs.]] Listen! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If they don't like it, they throw sugar. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u450	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u451	What are the voyeur funds for? Mr. Conde, do you know how they act? What they do is they take advantage of the company's difficulties to get into the stock market at low cost and then, often, by forcing offs and labor adjustments, selling them with added value. That's what they're doing. By the way, they're entering the bag in the industry and in large companies in the area of Vigo and throughout Galicia. That's what you're promoting. And what we're telling you here is that there has to be a public intervention...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u452	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u453	...because Junta put a lot of money in Barreras and has to capitalise...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u454	Thank you very much, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u455	...this investment to make a public business group...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u456	Thank you very much. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u457	...or semipublic...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u458	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u459	...to make it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u460	Your time is up, Mr Bará. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Mr. Conde López has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u461	Mr Bará, I should review your speech because it is such a disincentive, such a disincentive, that it is not really worthy of this Parliament. [[Murmurs.]] Either he comes here to talk seriously about Vulcan workers and Barreras, or he comes here to make demagogy that doesn't go anywhere. [[Applause]] Because, of course, Mr Bará, your intervention will not solve any problem either one job or one Vulcan or Barreras, none. [[Applause]] From there, if you like, we'll talk about Vulcano. I've been totally transparent to Vulcan workers ever since. From the first moment the Galician Union, in 2017, pushed a financial structure that allowed the ferry to complete, and gave Vulcan a loan so that the ferry could be completed. And the Galician Union collaborated and made a technical tutelage. Listen, from there, where's the responsibility? I say it'll be from the yard, I say! The yard has a debt of 200 million euros. Who wants to charge that responsibility? To whom? [[Murmurs.]] I've been totally honest with the workers. [[Murmurs.]] With this situation, logically, it's very difficult. 200 million euros of losses? What do you want, what do we nationalize, what do you want? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Maybe... do you want that? [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, no, no. Here's a responsibility because we manage the resources of the Greeks and all the productive sectors. And from there on, Your Honor, if there's an investor in Vulcan who's willing, in the settlement plan, to give him continuity and there's a solvent project we'll support it. [[Applause]] And if there isn't a solvent project, logically, don't ask for irresponsibility, like, by the way, you did with Alfageme, remember? 32 million euros to public finances. [[Murmurs.]] From there, if you want, we'll talk about Barreras. Look, we've already moved to the shipowner and yard that we're not going to admit any partial solution. And, logically, we're going to support any kind of proposal that allows us to develop the workload, because there's a responsibility in the sector and there's also a responsibility for its impact on the auxiliary industry. We'll be with Barriers, like we were with Vulcan and how we were with the sector. I remind you here who was the Government that proposed the solutions to the problem of tax read, I remind you who collaborated in the search for workload and I remind you who has destined 50 million euros - this government - precisely to measures related to innovation and training. Mr Bará, lessons on the naval sector, none. I just hope your proposals don't have to develop on the part of any Government of the Galician Union because, unfortunately, they won't serve anyone. [[Applause]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-08-DSPG130.u462	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning.
