ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u1	Good morning. We resumed the session. Before we get into the agenda, I'm telling you to excuse this full-time wife Paula Vázquez Verao. Change in agenda development
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u2	I am also communicating two changes on the agenda, which address two questions, namely Question No. 8.1, namely, the first question of questions to the Government, which will be substanceed after the votes of the non-law proposals, and Question No. 8.5, which has already been spoken to the two stakeholders, which will be subject to the first hour of the resumption of the full afternoon. I also welcome the students and students of the Poet Center Díaz Castro, of Guitariz — they are students of 4th of the ESO and 1st of the Bachelor's degree — as well as their teachers and assistants — welcome to Parliament — as well as the people who accompany us today in the rostrum. And now yes, we are on the agenda, with point seventh, questions for oral answer to the president. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luís Villares Naveira, G.P. In Marea, on the actions planned by the Government of Greece to resolve the labour conflicts opened in some of the fundamental public services of the Autonomous Community.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u3	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez, unfortunately, one day more public health is the protagonist and, in particular, his disastrous health policy. While we're having this debate, health professionals are making a pilgrimage. The CAP professionals from the seven cities of Galicia are traveling to the Junta building, because neither Sergas nor the Council meet their demands. A Way of Santiago of what this time can't boast the Council of Galicia, because it's a health road with which you should immediately meet demands, running out of the Council to attend and receive the professionals who are, at this moment, impotent, at the attention they suffer from by the Administration. The CAP workers have been on strike indefinitely since January 7, with minimum services of 100 percent; they say they want to break down the wall Sergas makes in front of their claims. You know, Mr. President of the Board, why are you on strike? They're on strike just because you don't comply with your own law, you don't comply with your agreements. There was an agreement with the health professionals of 2008, which you left on wet paper when they arrived at Junta in 2010, and as a result, the staff of the CAP for nursing and family medicine is penalized when they are on sick leave, is penalized when they want to take days for those who have rights or days of free will — which does not happen to the rest of Sergas's professionals — and, as a result, they do not charge a part of the supplementary agenda, which often requires them to do from the administration itself. The health conflict, however, does not end at this time in the CAP, because the Primary Care Coordinator has called a strike for April 9-12, which will affect health centres throughout Galicia, because at Mr. Almuña's Health Council they have not sat down to negotiate and agree with them the necessary improvements for primary care. Their claims are minimal, because they want to pay the best attention to their patients. There are five essential demands that you do not attend. First, they demand the elimination of the EOXI imposed by you and the creation of a true primary care agency with its own spending capacity, that is, the same as it already has hospital care. Secondly, there is a significant increase in the budget within the Health Council, up to 25%, as is recommended by all international bodies. Third, they call for a necessary increase in staff, through the immediate call for all the necessary squares. Fourthly, they require stable contracts to be able to provide quality care to their patients and worthy of precarious medical care. And fifth, they call for direct attention and direct negotiation of their government with the CAP staff. I would like to remind you, Mr President, that both the CAP collective and primary care do not ask for improvements in public service for the whole of Greek citizenship, to improve health care on two points that constitute the central pillar of health care, since it solves 90% of people's health problems, and you don't have a plan for them or an answer or budget. That's right, there was budget in 2017 in this House to raise your government's salary more than 7%. There was money in this House in 2019 in the budgets to lower the capital tax to seven thousand richest people in Galicia, a bonus, a tax gift of over 12 million euros. And we have to come to the conclusion that you only look at yourself and your friends, that you only rule for the rich. We ask you, please, to rule for all and to end once and for all the ill-treatment of health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u5	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Villares, your question is registered — I think I remember — on March 18th. You were talking about whether there were labour conflicts in public services. It is surprising that you did not congratulate, firstly, those who filed demands and, secondly, those who agreed to resolve those demands, because you forgot that on March 20, for example, the workers and companies in the ambulance sector came to a pre-agreement for a new work agreement. You also forget that on 20 March all the medical schools in Galicia, the Galego Council of Medical Colleges and all the primary-care scientific societies, all those in Spain, have reached an agreement with the Galego Health Service to embribrate the problems of primary care that exist right now in the National Health System, but, as far as we are concerned, in the Galician Health Service. So to your question, what do we do in the face of conflicts, because look, we look for solutions, we even find agreements. I know, ladies and gentlemen, that you are always specialized not only in not just looking for solutions but in feeding disagreements. That's basically your proposal for public services. The worse the better; signed: The Tides of Podemos. But look, we're gonna keep working. You tell a lot of lies today, but I'm used to it. For example, we have lowered the property tax; on the contrary, the only government that has raised the property tax is this. Or that we go up the salary to the high office; the only government that lowered the salary to the high office is this. You keep feeding that kind of slander, but it doesn't seem to be very good for you. We'll keep working. Look, when we present one hundred and seventy-five measures for primary care matters, they are later partially copied by the Ministry of Health — I say partly because they are not even able to present a proposal for the whole national health system, but that is their problem. But, in relation to the strikes of the CAP, you know -- you should know -- that at the emergency points, the minimum services are 100 percent; or don't you remember? It would be illegal not to put a hundred percent minimum services. Or are you already thinking about doing illegal things about minimum services as well? But in relation to the CAP, we're working. There are five demands and we agree on three; there are two others where we keep approaching proposals. But you say there's also a call for primary care doctors' strike. It's another lie in the House. No matter what. You just made up your mind that there's a primary health strike call. It's another lie, and you're going to stand up and you're not going to rectify it. Look, at the moment, there's no strike call in primary care. I know you're trying to get a strike call, and the worse health works, the better for the Podemos Tides, that's right, the worse for the Greeks, that we represent in most of them, and that's why we're with the Greeks, always representing them, in primary care. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, you report the five proposals of this alleged coordinator that are going to theoretically present a strike — it must be that you are already in that coordinator — and you say: no, it is necessary to make a call to all the necessary squares. It's a clever approach, Mr. Villares. You know that there is a law — you should know — of the state that sets the maximum of public job offers, which is 100 percent of the vacancies, and of the communities that we have completed 108% of the vacancies. What did this government do? Taking this percentage of 8% of Education and Public Service and giving it health, and that's why we just convened, between 2018 and 2019, a thousand and three hundred health care centers and nursing staff. Is there an autonomous community in Spain that attracts 108%, plus 8% and 8%, of the rest...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u7	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u8	...of public administrations only in health? No, no, no, no. We are the first autonomous community in public job offers. [[Applause]] You say you have to make decent contracts. Is there any autonomous community in Spain offering a three-year contract before taking a final place in health services since the MIR is finished? No, no, no, no. Only Galicia. Three years. You say, Your Honor, that EOXI must be suppressed. If the EOXI are created by a Bipartite law of the year 2008! You have to suppress what you, too, when you were enlisting in other parties, you approved...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u9	Please finish, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u10	...in the House? Look, Your Honor, we're proud of public health, we're going to continue defending public health. Every time there is a conflict, there will be a proposal for a solution. You, Your Honor, are specialists in conflicts, we are specialists in public services. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u12	The People's Party, specialists? Yes, lying specialists, lying specialists. In three minutes, three lies, here, in front of everyone. The first lie, Mr. Nuñez, is that you haven't lowered the estate tax this year. Lies. They have lowered the estate tax, and it's recognized by the Galician Board. It's in the budgets approved this year a discount that's going to amount to at least 12 million euros of income from the Galician Board, because they're downing them, a tax gift, to 7 thousand richest people in Galicia. First lie. If not, in the case of doubling you say that you do not lower this year in the 2019 budgets the property tax, they say no. First lie. Second lie, the illegalities of minimum services. That you don't commit illegalities with minimum services? They have been sentenced in the last six months — five judgments of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia — for violating minimum services in the right to strike, among others, in the field of health! What are you talking about fulfilling the legality of minimum services? Second lie. Third lie — and the most important in this context of what we are talking about — what have you reached an agreement with all the medical colleges? Lies. Look, lie, because, in fact, they had to go out and lie to you and the Council and Mr. Health Counsellor because nothing but the Galaga Association of Community Family Medicine, because you had to pass a working meeting through an agreement, a meeting through an agreement, and then, within the process of allegations, the association itself had to make things clear to them. In the first allegation, he says, the document must be entitled "acts of the meeting maintained", with the word "agreement" disappearing. And the second allegation, so clear — and Mr Almuínña is already making fears — is that in the first point "it is not the primary care strategies, but the development of the primary care strategy, replacing the draft of the new model, which we reject" — which we reject. Therefore, neither explicit agreement nor implicit agreement reject its model. So don't come to the House to lie, don't come to the House to lie. And the question I ask you in this case is, did you know this? And if I didn't know, would you take responsibility for the health adviser? Say "yes" or say "no", disallow it now or, if not, withdraw yourself, because the Glaga Family Medicine Association is taking your reason. There's no agreement with all the organizations, there's no agreement; there's a simple work meeting and not an agreement, as you're saying. This is the document, this is the document. [[Mr. Villares Naveira shows a document.]] Mr. Núñez, you're being rejected by your new model. We have the best health care, we have them willing to do the best work, but you stop them from doing it, because they prevent them from working in acceptable conditions. Look, there are six thousand vacancies in the health system, and they only call 1,314, six thousand vacancies in the health system. There are legal limitations imposed by the Government of the People's Party—clearly—by the Montor Law and by successive laws which they passed in the Government of Mariano Rajoy for seven years of government. Tell me who is responsible for this situation. It also says that the policies that are the result of the amendment to article 135 of the Constitution... are responsible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u13	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u14	...which signed Mariano Rajoy with Zapatero in 2011. Say it clearly, say it. If you say so, we'll welcome the social state and welcome the people's rights concerns. But we see that you have no concern about people's rights, because what is true and what is adopted by this House, with the vote in favour only of the People's Party,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u15	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u16	...is that in 2017 you rose the salary of high office by more than 7% and that in 2019, less than four months ago...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u17	Silence! Finish, please, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u18	...this House, with the approval of the People's Party, lowered the tax to the richest in Galicia, to the seven thousand richest in Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u19	Thank you, Mr. Villares, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u20	...12 million euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u21	Thank you. Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u22	Don't miss me, Mr. Villares, whatever happens to you. You say, once again, that we lowered the property tax, and I repeat that the only government that raised the estate tax was this. [[Laughter]] We left the estate tax as it was when we took possession of the Galician board in 2009, and before we raised the estate tax, and the property rate that is applied in Galicia is exactly the same as the general rate of the state. First falsehood. Second. Tell you whether there are doubts or discussions about minimum services. I've talked about the minimum emergency services, not the minimum services in their entirety. Second falsehood. But what is curious is that he just took a document, apparently, to try to say he has it, and he does not read the first paragraph of that document. Read: Meeting on 20 March 2019 in Compostela the representatives of the Galego Council of Medical Colleges and primary-care scientific societies indicated at the end of this document and the Galego Health Service, agree: First, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Signed: Don Daniel Rey Aldana, President of Semergen Galicia; Don José Carlos Bastida Calvo, President of SEMG Galicia; and Don Susana Aldecoa Landesa, President of Agamfe Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u23	Mr. Villares, silence, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u24	Wake up, Your Honor, wake up. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are not talking to any Member, eh!, we are talking to a Member who once said he was sharing justice, and he manipulates a signed document between all scientific organizations and all medical schools. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, when I saw this question about labour conflicts, I thought you were referring, for example, to the dismissal of eleven workers of your party, with minimum compensation, yes, because of the demands of electoral reform. You are pure incoherence, Mr. Villares. Look, listening to your health proposals, when they've just made repeated proposals and you're turning into one of Europe's anti-virgin parties, and they're proposing not to vaccinate boys and girls and yellow children, it's at least an absolute lack of respect for medical science. You have a health spokesperson in this House who agrees with Mr. Maduro's regime in Venezuela. No, I understand you're upset, Your Honor, but it's more disturbing to Venezuelans who take their hair from Galicia, from the tranquillity of a universal public health, to a country where there are no drugs, where there are no antibiotics and where people are dying as a result of lack of drugs. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's why, Your Honor, that's unworthy, Your Honor, that's unworthy. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, you know what? You are a danger to public health, a danger to public health and a danger to basic health approaches in the prevention and promotion of health. You're talking about conflicts, you're talking about conflicts in public administration, that every time there's a conflict, you're at your disposal to try to find an answer, defending — yes — the whole of the Greeks. Look, Your Honor, do you at some point think you would be able to manage a health service of thirty-nine thousand people who work twenty-four hours three hundred sixty-five days a year when you are unable to manage a parliamentary group of fourteen Members, Your Honor? Can you really teach organizational and serious lessons to a public health service with thirty-nine thousand people and with the defeat of organization, disunity and disrespect that you have among yourselves? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u25	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u26	Mr. Villares, I know you don't like my answers, but look at one thing: they're the few Members who talk to you in the House. Yes, Your Honor, yes. [[Murmurs.]] I treat him with respect, with much more respect than his own companions treat him, but my feeling is that his own companions are starting to be right. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u27	Thank you. [[Mr. Villares Naveira asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Villares, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u28	With regard to the reply given by Mr. President, I would like Mr. President of the Galician Council and I to bring the two documents to the Bureau, so that they would remain at the Bureau's exhibition and at the disposal of the Greek public in general, so that people can draw their own conclusions from both documents.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u29	The two documents were read in public, here, publicly. All Members know the two documents. There's no need.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u30	It would be good if they were available throughout Galician citizenship on Parliament's website so they could be seen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u31	It's over, it's over. The two documents were publicly read here, and Members all know the contents of the two documents. Another thing is there's no deal between you, but that's another story. [[Murmurs.]] It's over. Thank you. Ask Mr. President of the Meeting of Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the position of the Greek Government in relation to the discriminations to Galicia and the privileges of ence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u32	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u33	Thank you very much. Good morning. I want my first words to be of solidarity with the neighbors and neighbors who have just lived this wave of fires, especially in Dodro and Rianxo, who know that there was panic, that there was fear; also of recognition for the workers and workers of the extinction service, who are still working against the fire today, and to those who want to give thanks wholeheartedly. [[Applause]] And I, Mr. Feijóo, also have to tell you that this wave of fires is a warning, it is a warning of the serious problem that is creating its forest policy in the service of Ence and that Galicia is turning into a small dust; a failed forest policy, a pyromanian forest policy, which puts human lives at risk and is creating the biggest environmental problem this country has. We need a new forest policy for Galicia, not for Ence. [[Applause]] But the theme of forest policy is not the only land where you have shown us that it is a valet of Ence, one of those companies that privatized the government of Aznar at the price of balance and a paradigm of the turning doors of the People's Party. There is also the immoral and illegal extension that granted Rajoy's government when he was in office, so that the shareholders of this pastry continue to earn money at the cost of polluting Pontevedra's river and endangering people's health. And I'm going to remind you of what you said in 2009: "It's not possible to keep Ence in the creek. We're not going to say one thing and do the opposite." We see, Mr. Feijóo, how good his word is: absolutely nothing. [[Applause]] Not only did he not keep his word, they not only launched this illegal extension, but we saw him leaping to you as a hydra before the decision of the State Counsel, the only decision, by the way, Mr. Feijóo, of the State Counsel on the extension of Ence, because it seems that the People's Party -- how would it have a counter-critique? -- he didn't even ask for that report when he was in the Government. And we're telling you that Ence isn't above the law, no matter how much it's an Ibex 35 company, nor can it be above the majority will of the neighbors and the neighbours of Pontevedra and all of its territory. And changing the laws to favor Ence has a name, and I'm going to say with all the letters: corruption, because no company is given six hundred thousand square meters of public domain, no company is allowed to be in a place one hundred fifteen years when the law says the maximum is seventy-five, no company is forgiven six million euros each year from the sanitation canon and of course no company is allowed to put our pile of cheap and flammable raw material, without even closing the productive cycle of paper. [[Applause]] The future of Ence is outside the river of Pontevedra, and we demand it, Mr. Feijóo, first of all, is that you stop acting as a deputy adviser and, secondly, that you lead the process of moving the pastry, because that's where you have skills. And making that transfer has only advantages: it takes the law, it doesn't stay like a Pharisee, we regain the stream of Pontevedra, we gain health for people and also in the future for this country. Mr. Feijóo, you act as president of the board and not as deputy councillor of Ence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, I thank you for your congratulations to the firefighting service, to all the collectives who have been working yesterday and are still working today. Let's hope that the Northeast wind will soften; unfortunately it won't be like this today or tomorrow, and yesterday they had to work in thirty-nine fires, only on yesterday's day, 2,962 people, 6 air vehicles and 267 motorcycles. I want to thank the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of Spain for their determination and their help. And, of course, our commitment to continue working day and night in front of this wave of fires — as it cannot be otherwise — to the affected neighbors, as it has been usual, in general, intent. Look, Your Honor, you have a way of posing Galician self-government. We've already told him we've got another one. It seems bad to you that I criticise the Government for a series of decisions that endanger thousands of jobs and Galician industrial fabric. As bad as it seems to you that he criticizes his partners in all the Greek institutions, although they are now increasing their partners with Batasuna-Bildu and left Republican of Catalonia, I will of course if I will and will not shut up. I am not going to shut up because I consider it a serious contempt, a huge frivolity and a lack of respect for the Government's decision regarding that company taken a few days ago, that this government — legitimate — is fully aware of the media. It is a grave contempt for our self-government. Can you imagine that the Government of Spain makes this decision without consulting the Generalitat or the lehendakari, making this decision of a company and of all the impact it entails — direct and indirect — and that not even a few weeks later no one from the Government is in contact with this government, which has exclusive environmental competences, Mrs Pontón? But what frivolity is this that a government gives an extension and another government removes the extension within the same state? What principle of legal security do we have in Spain? But what is lacking in respect of thousands of families who are unemployed and the eighty thousand Greeks who sell wood every year and enter three hundred million euros? Look, Your Honor, about the placement of that company, you and I like the same -- I mean, nothing -- that placement, but neither did you nor I have anything to do with that placement, Your Honor. What's clear is that we have to talk about things in a meridian way. If we close or we don't close, that's the consideration. When you were in the government, you weren't closing up and when you were in the government, you were giving favorable environmental impact statements and you were saying that you didn't pollute the river, and now it turns out that they went back to the opposition and told the same lies as when you were in the opposition before. Were you prevaricating when they gave the environmental impact statement and the permits for Ence to continue in the river, did you prevaricate, Mrs. Pontón? Look, Mrs. Pontón, five thousand two hundred families with jobs in danger, four hundred people working in the Ence, two thousand seven hundred contractors in the industrial area, three hundred trucks entering and leaving this factory every day and two thousand hundred jobs linked to the forest sector. 60% of the cargo in the port of Marín is that company, a hundred ships a year, and eighty thousand Galician families sell three hundred million euros of wood a year, of which 60% are eucalyptus, of which 50% are for this company. Your Honor, what irresponsible decision is this? How can one make a unilateral decision without even listening to the legitimate government of the Greeks? Your Honor, how can you make this decision? And we haven't heard any explanation for this decision for weeks, and what's your motivation. It doesn't make sense that with a company that has...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u36	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u37	...a commitment of more than three hundred and sixty million euros of investment in Galicia, signed an environmental pact with this government, and it turns out that, at the moment, and because it touches, if that agreement is volatile and we are left without the first company in the German forest sector. Look, Your Honor, do you think it wrong to criticize the Government of Madrid on this matter? You defend the Government of Madrid, I criticize the Government of Madrid. It is clear, therefore, that the BNG proposals and the Galician People's Party proposals are absolutely different. I'll keep working for Galicia's interests. For me the first are the workers of the country, the second is the owners of the wood, and the third is, of course, to abide by the law always.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u38	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u39	And while we've been in this government, we've always kept the law. Look, Your Honor, as long as there's no alternative to another pastry, you can't take your hair to eighty thousand families and five thousand workers. That's what the BNG and its socialist partners are about.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u40	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u41	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u42	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u43	Mr. Feijóo, you're about to talk about partners. Yes, yes, with the extreme right, old-fashioned, racist, machist and xenophobic. [[Murmurs.]] You're about to talk about partners. [[Applause]] Anyway, go that way. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] And look, question...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u44	Quiet, please. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. Go ahead, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u45	Yeah? Are you all right? Can I keep talking?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u46	Yes, yes, you can go on now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u47	Well, and the truth is to question the BNG position in relation to Ence, Mr. Feijóo, is to live on Mars, especially after his coherence, because I ask him: when did you fool the Greeks: when he said in 2009 that he couldn't keep Ence in the laugh and announced that they were going to work in the transfer, in 2012 — when he was again presenting himself with the same electoral program—? Why do you always deceive the Greeks and the Greeks? Why lie, Mr. Feijóo, constantly? Look, you're the only self-government that worries you is the shareholders of Ence who keep making money at the cost of polluting Pontevedra's stream and risking the future of this job as well. [[Applause]] And look, it's a lack of respect for your lies in connection with Ence, which today has proved to us that you're the deputy advisor and that I think the president of Ence is not as well able to defend his interests as you did in Parliament today. Yesterday something was made public which is very serious, and it is that Rajoy's Government, in functions — when you didn't care that government in office made decisions — nor did you consult the state's lawyer on the legality of that extension. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Is it, Mr. Feijóo, because you knew that the state lawyer's approach was going to be the opposite and then you didn't even ask for that extension? Because what we're talking about is that you jump like a hydra in the face of a decision by the state attorney, the only one who took in relation to the extension of Ence. [[Applause]] And look, the only ones responsible for the situation at Ence are the pastry and the People's Party, because they wanted to skip the law so that Ence had not fulfilled what was established, and it was that he had to move. There is, Mr. Feijóo, no important city throughout Europe that has not moved its polluting industries. It was in Barcelona, it was in London, it was in Malaga, it was also in Bilbao. And I don't think that for Bilbao's laugh there was any problem moving its polluting industries; it was a blessing that allowed them to regain urban space and earn jobs and jobs. [[Applause]] And we therefore ask him whether you really have so little ambition for a country that you think the only future is to have Pontevedra's burgeoning contaminated, that model that comes from franchise...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u48	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u49	...if you have so little country aspiration...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u50	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u51	...which tells the Greeks and the Greeks that the future is to keep filling the mountain of eucalyptus, when we see the situation so serious that it generates and that it will not create higher incomes, or if we don't have to bet on what the law says, Mr. Feijóo. Because we're asking you to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u52	Chisst!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u53	... if I may allow your altered lords of the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u54	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u55	Well, what we're asking is that the law be observed. He can't be above the law. Your competences and self-government, Mr. Feijóo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u56	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u57	...to launch the transfer of Ence. Lead that process and stop acting like a counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u59	'Cause maybe you're...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u60	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u61	...exhales...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u62	Thank you. Your time is up. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. Time's up. [[Applause]] Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u63	Look, Your Honor, my partners are the Greeks and the Greeks; their partners are Batasuna, Bildu and the Republican Left of Catalonia. [[Murmurs.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to read the paragraph of the electoral programme, which I remember perfectly, which says textually: "PPdEG keeps its bet that He abandons its current placement, considering it irrevocable as a result of its activity around Pontevedra County." This is our electoral program. All right. We started studying — as the BNG Industry advisor I suppose he had studied this matter with a great deal of interest when he was in the Government — where we can take Ence around Pontevedra and find him. Water consumption of Ence: twice as much as Pontevedra, Marín, Poio, Bueu and Sanxenxo are twenty million cubic metres; and what all these populations consume is ten million cubic metres. Second: proximity to a port. And third requirement: sufficient power; this company consumes more than twice as much as the whole region of Pontevedra consumes half of the electricity that consumes the city of Vigo. And under these conditions, Your Honor, we keep working. In 2008, the integrated environmental authorisation, signed by the Government of the Bipartite. Why, Your Honor, why did you give him integrated environmental authorization? Because I kept the law. Since we arrived in the Government, in 2013, in 2015, in 2016 and 2018, we have made the comprehensive inspections and we continue to believe — just like the Bipartite — that it is fully fulfilling the conditions of integrated environmental authorisation; just like the Bipartite, exactly the same. There's a difference between you and us. Look, when this company gets the government extension, we sit with the company and we hire more investments, more jobs and more environmental quality -- that's the difference. The pact is signed, it's 200 million euros of investment in Galicia. One of the paragraphs of that investment was nothing more and nothing less than to rehabilitate in its integrity the palace of Lourizán, five million euros. And when we get to rehabilitate Lourizán's palace and ask permission from the Deputy of Pontevedra, the answer is: if it's with money from Ence, no, it falls. Is there any more sectarian party that doesn't even keep the historical heritage as a result of an environmental pact signed with a company? [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, there you are. We want to do the Praceres debugger with money and commitments from that company. Not you. They're in Pontevedra richly smoking a pure, Your Honor. The problem is that at 80,000 Welsh families have to explain exactly why and at 5,000 jobs we have to explain why. Why do you change your approach without giving any explanation? That's the question we need to know. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, this is not done by the Generalitat de Cataluña or by the Basque Government; and, of course, it will not be done by the German Government while he is President of Galicia, Your Honor. I'm not willing to accept this kind of blackmail and this kind of planning. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, you are a party that asks for the vote — I insist — for Batasuna, Bildu and Left, and you are in favour of five thousand Greeks going to the street and that eighty thousand families cannot sell wood. What nationalists are you? Are they Basque nationalists? Are they Catalan nationalists? Look, the only alternative with the 5,000 jobs and the eighty thousand families that produce wood, the only alternative to this irresponsible decision of Government Sánchez, is the Galician People's Party, and I feel very honored to defend the workers and families.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u64	Finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u65	And I repeat: as long as there is no alternative, we will continue to defend workers and families. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, what are you defending? The company's relocation? Do you defend that the company is expanding in Asturias?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u66	Mr Bará, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u67	We certainly want to comply with the law, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u68	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u69	We always keep the law! [[Murmurs.]] And listening to a German nationalist who asks that the law be observed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u70	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u71	...is the best news in the morning. [[Murmurs.]] Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u72	Quiet. Please finish, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u73	...I understand that a political party asking for the vote for the Republican Bildu and Left of Catalonia cares about three noses of the Welsh. I am here for the Greeks, I will continue to defend the Greeks, the employment of the Greeks and the Greek families; I have no doubt, Mrs. Pontón. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] From now on, you can say what you want, but don't say it again...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u74	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u75	...to defend employment in Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u76	Thank you. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga of G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the actions planned by the Council of Galicia to respond to the social response to their policies in the central areas of their government action
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u77	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u78	Good morning, Mr. Núñez Feijó. I've already told you that your health management has caused acute social and professional discomfort. Which decisions that do not have much to do with the economic and financial crisis situation, such as the elimination of the autonomous primary care structure, are part of the problem rather than its solution. In the past too, in a question to the president, I have said that the precariousness of the cuts complicates management and causes imbalances, expels professionals, disincents those left here. I gave him some data. At one point, I told you that since 2011 the percentage of potential health care personnel in all of them has multiplied by almost 2, by 1.8 exactly. And his counselor was saying at the time -- fortunately, he seems to have begun to rectify -- "this is what there is." Maybe there was something else, and that's why there's a change in your health policy. I also told you that from the beginning of your primary care management there are 1,250 squares minus 1,250; it's a relevant figure. In January I am anime to rectify and to be brave, to recognize structural problems, management errors, diagnostic errors, and to listen to professionals, who have established a therapy to correct the wrong health policies that have been taking place in the last ten years. I have to tell you today that you have taken some timid step; you must admit it. I don't know if it's an agreement, an act, I don't care. What I'm telling you is that it's not enough, that it's not enough, that it has to insist and it has to be more radical in its correction, and, above all, that it has to get that correction to be able to take it to two places, which is what we can do in this Parliament and what you can do: take it to budgets and bring it to legal standards. Take it to budgets because without new resources it will not be possible to fulfill what you are promising. What is the cost of these hundred seventy-five points in budgetary terms? Because they're later, the correction is later than the presentation of budgets in this House. At that point we told him that more resources were needed; you are now in that; I think it's all right; for we make a change of budgets to have those resources. And, in relation to regulatory guarantees, it's the only thing that can give stability to agreements, whether it's an act, whether it's discussed by associations or not. We must take it to the rules, which is what this Parliament does. For when is a guarantee of a primary care agency itself?, can a regulatory guarantee of minimum care times for patients, a maximum number of patients per primary care physician?, are there guarantees that the contract for prospective statutory staff starts with two years and can be extended to three — and not one to one, as you are saying now — that CAPs have complete equipment to cover the demand or that, for example, there are a set of minimum common tests for the primary health care set? If there are budgets and if there are policy changes, you're serious. If there are no budgets and no policy changes, what do you want us to think of your proposed corrections in this central section for our citizenship? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u79	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Leicega. Certainly, when I saw your question — similar to the Tide — of social conflict, I thought that Greek socialism would claim to reduce social conflict and work, for example, for the conflicts we have in the industrial sector in Galicia. I thought you were going to put forward some proposals on how we can stop Alcoa's closure in the Coruña or how we can ensure that jobs are maintained in the Navy, but unfortunately it's not like that. I thought you were also going to work to make some reasoning about the problem of the five thousand jobs affected by the timber company and the eighty thousand families affected by their incomes because they won't have to sell wood; yes, to Portuguese companies or other companies that are employed in the rest of Spain, paying for the doors of wood. But it seems that these 10,000 jobs that are currently in limbo to the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party in Galicia are not interested. On the contrary: they're happy that jobs are simply in limbo. Why? Because in Galicia governs the People's Party of Galicia, and therefore for the Socialist Party, the worse and the better. There you are, Mr. Leicega, there you are, but you are an economist and you know very well how the forest sector works in Galicia and you know very well, indeed, how we are about to get what no government has gotten, which is to throw out of Galicia any company that makes aluminium or aluminium. And this is very serious, Mr. Leicega, and coming from a respected economist, at least you should take a minute, because a respected economist can't tell a government that if there's a percentage of potential higher or lower when the Government of Spain forbids public job offers during the years you referred to, and you stay so belligerent. Now, you don't say that, since we got to the government, we've been summoned in health eight thousand nine hundred squares; that doesn't say so. We use 100% of the calls that leave us the law of the State in the field of public employment. There is no autonomous community, — straight — no autonomous community that is above the capacity of public job offers in Galicia. You don't say -- you just left the health barometer -- that one more year we're in the best two years of the public health assessment in Galicia, far above what public health values during the Bipartite, you don't say, and especially primary care. Today almost 4% of Welsh consider primary care to work better than when you ruled. About 7% of the Greeks believe that external consultations worked better today than when you ruled. That doesn't say. And yet you talk to me about the approaches of primary care. But do you know that more than 40 percent of the board budget is about health? Never before had money devoted to public health as much as now, never, ever. And besides, tell me that we should use more resources. Since February, formal request, Government of Spain, 125 million surpluses. We call for investments in health care, social services and education. Answer: silence. And you still tell me that we must devote more resources to health care and it has blocked more than 300 million euros to the budget of the Galician Union. We're about to enter the month of April, we have no answer and you know that later they can't be executed. Look, Mr. Leicega, with all due respect, if you find a more ambitious proposal, a more consensual proposal and a better proposal than I have done some health service in Spain than the Greek Health Service has just done, please transfer me. By the way, I agree with you — let us read — the documents...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u81	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u82	...that if they sign as agreements are agreements, even if there are some who don't even want to read the agreements. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u83	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u84	Yes, I understand you want me to ask you what you like, but no, I asked you about health. We'll have time in the next full of subjects you're probably interested in. [[Applause]] Your parliamentary group has the opportunity to present initiatives and we can also do so; your Industry Adviser will come to this plenary and tell us what you consider appropriate. But look, what I'm looking at is that you're trying to change your health policies and your advisor is telling us that this is solved with seventeen million euros in two years. That sounds like a coat of hair to me. It is eight and a half million euros each year to solve the health problem. And you're going to tell me that this is solved by applying the clause -- finally, I don't know the number anymore, a very complicated number -- that allows us to use the surplus in certain circumstances! Because you know perfectly well — and I too — that this is only possible for investments that are sustainable in time, that are dedicated to energy efficiency or to combating climate change, and that can't be — and that's Rajoy's rule — for health, education or social policies. [[Applause]] I agree with you: we asked the Government of Spain to amend that rule, we asked you, but in the meantime, that is the perfect definition of what you said the other day: a curtain of smoke. In the meantime, let's do what's possible from here on, that is, we modify budgets and apply a sufficient amount to put in place the measures needed by health to produce the substantive correction. And that's the key. Look, are there other autonomous communities? Yes, look, in Asturias, for example, you know, like me, that they're spending 200 euros more on health than in Galicia per person; and in Castela-León, 100 euros more. With those resources, it would be more than enough to get to where I think we have to arrive in the short term. Asturias, Castile-Leon, if you would like to quote a few more: Aragon, Extreme, all of them communities that have a social structure, a structure by age similar to ours; and, of course, none of them have an economic concert. By the way, I see that the flaming economic token of your party, Mr. Lacalle, proposes an economic concert for all. I suppose you, like me, will be in that this shouldn't be done in Galicia. I hope you say something and tell the leader of your party to get Mr. Lacalle out of his head these things, and others that we'll have a chance to discuss in the future. [[Applause]] Mr Feijóo, if you are committed to putting more resources on health care, if you are committed to bringing the promises to the standards that we have among all of us, the health conflict will surely calm down and health care will improve enough so that citizens can put us in the health barometer not in the third negative perception of the tail, as we are in the last barometer, but rather better today. You also know that in the last barometer, the percentage of citizens who say they prefer to go to private health is significantly increased, and that's a very relevant indicator of the deterioration they perceive in public health. That's what needs to be corrected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u85	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u86	Because we also know that health personnel need to be defended, but for that they need stability and a powerful professional career and meet their demands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u87	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Close the question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u88	Mr. Leicega, do you think it's a sustainable investment to do health centers or not? Do you think it's sustainable funding to expand or remodel the Coruña Hospital in its integrity? Do you think it's a sustainable investment to make a new building at Ourense Hospital? Do you think it's not a sustainable investment to make the great Montecelo in Pontevedra? Does it seem like a sustainable investment, if you give us the license of the Mareas friends — although you don't know at the moment in Ferrol who is friend and enemy of the Mareas — to enlarge the architect Marcide? Isn't that sustainable investments? This can't be done with the money of the Greeks, can it not be done? Can't we invest what's ours? We cannot invest what is ours because that money cannot be spent to comply with the spending rule, and consequently that money is from Galicia, being Galicia the only autonomous community that has complied with all the rules year after year and in a continuous way. And now you're talking about health. You have no legitimacy to speak of greater budget in the country's public health, you don't, Mr. Leicega. [[Applause]] I'm telling you with all due respect. By the way, Mr. Leicega, if you had done the favor that the Town Hall of Lugo had licensed us to make the integral center in the neighborhood of the residence, it would be magnificent. Likewise, if I had given us a sound to make a health center in Caldas de Reis, it would also be magnificent. By the way, I congratulate you for not politicizing health. The Distinguished Vigese Prize, Your Honor, believes that the Socialist Party takes public health seriously in Vigo. The Socialist Party of Vigo which charges us to the Greeks and the Galego Health Service is to provide health care in Vigo, taxes. And then, Your Honor, would it not seem more reasonable to grant you that distinction, which until now was quite serious, to the staff of 112, to the 061 doctors and to the emergency staff of Vigo hospitals — from Álvaro Cunqueiro, from Fatima, from Povervisa — who were on the Marisquino night caring for hundreds of people during the emergency and emergencies of the Marisquiño? [[Applause]] Mr. Leicega, how can you fall so low by destroying the heritage that between the Socialist Party and the People's Party we build as the National Health System?, how can you fall so low, Mr. Leicega? I understand that you are not responsible for this outcome, but in no way... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u89	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u90	...we'll accept that public health is destroyed, in Vigo or anywhere else. Look, Your Honor, I just heard a discussion about whether or not we can put public hospital signs in the hospitals. It is much cheaper to put public hospital signs in public hospitals in Galicia than to pay the wages to concelers, deputies and mayors who constantly lie, Your Honor, about public health. Are you against having a hospital carry a public hospital sign, Mr. Leicega? [[Murmurs.]] It's so regrettable that your proposal surprises me. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u91	Quiet, Mr. Losada, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u92	Look, Mr. Leicega,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u93	Silence, please, silence. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u94	...the proposals that we have just made to the Ministry of Health, 16% of the Ministry of Health proposals — by the way, most of them copied from the Sergas document — are considered in the medium term. For us it's 40%. Look, for example, we propose to establish from the year 2025 ratios under a thousand five-year charters — proposed to the Ministry of Health — and until the year 2025, are we not going to adopt that proposal? No, no, we want to start decreasing the cartons and, above all, weighting the cartridges by age. But, Mr. Leicega, you told me that you can't talk about what doesn't matter. But look, it's just that I, as President of the Board, am interested in it, I'm very interested in what's happening right now in Galicia, very much. And the Greek PSOE for Galicia is a bad match, Your Honor. They've been assuming for weeks of a drop in the 30% budget and elsewhere, rising to 60%. They looked elsewhere at the conflict of primary care in thirteen autonomous communities, there were conflicts of primary care in thirteen. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They have all the laziness to let us invest the money, which is ours, the surplus...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u95	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u96	...in sustainable public investment in health and education.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u97	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u98	It's been months without a solution to the 5,000 Alcoa jobs, it's been weeks taking the hair of the entire Greek forest sector...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u99	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u100	...and you're talking to me about Galician problems? Look, Mr. Leicega,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u101	Finish, please. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. Quiet. Please finish, president. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u102	Galicia can't accept...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u103	I'll control it, eh!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u104	...that for the President of the Government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u105	I know how long Mr. Leicega has taken. If something controls me time, it's good. And it's very fair for everyone, eh! [[Murmurs.]] There's no complaint about that. Please finish, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u106	Look, Your Honor, it's hard for a government in so little time, ten months, to have hurt Galicia so much. And I'm gonna keep working...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u107	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u108	...for the interests of my country, Mr. Leicega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u109	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u110	And I'm telling you, look...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u111	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u112	...if for you are more important the nine Members of the Republican Left and the two Members of Bildu than two million seven hundred thousand Greeks...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u113	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u114	...that will be your responsibility.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u115	Thank you, President. Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u116	I owe only two million seven hundred thousand Greeks, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u117	Thank you. Let's make this clear about the times. I have members of the Bureau here who can... this computer is public and here we see what happens every spokesman. I think they're pretty fair in times, but if someone has to say something, we're going to the strict time, for everyone, if they want, if they want. [[Murmurs.]] I think in a question of control over the government......—I'm sorry—I'm giving the spokespersons time to expose their questions and, therefore, I don't think there's any protest in this. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, we're going to get this thing out of the way and we're going to go on. Question time is over with the president and we're going to the non-law proposals. [[Murmurs.]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Da María Luisa Pierres López, on the referral by the Government of Galicia to the Parliament of Galicia, before the end of the X legislation, of a draft law of sustainable mobility for its approval
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u118	No amendments were tabled. Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor to make the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u119	Thank you, Mr. President. At the end of the diaspora, we're going to start the discussion of the non-law proposition. I thank the Members of the People's Party who accompany me in this debate. [[Laughter]] As a member of a harmful party for Galician interests, as is the Socialist Party of Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u120	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u121	Nuñez Feijóo said...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u122	Please, Mrs. Prado and Mr. Sanchez, be quiet. They're talking... silence, please! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet! Silence! That's it. Mr. Álvarez Martínez is in use.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u123	I was. I was in the use of the word, I'll see if I'm still...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u124	It's okay, it'll be in your time, don't worry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u125	Yeah, I know. He said that, as a member of a harmful party for Galicia's interests, and after waiting in vain for the folk party's rally to sound in the reply — especially in the last part — of Mr President, I will present a proposal not of harmful law, because that is what we do particularly well the opposition groups. In Commission No. 2 on April 6, i.e. 20 days ago, this group was asking the Galician Council if it considered it necessary to develop a sustainable mobility law in our autonomous community. The question had been recorded on February 7, this same year, and this date is relevant, considering that, in the answer, Mr. Director General of Mobility — who must be already in the campaign — said, in his argument, that it was a question of the pre-election period itself. I remind your lords that at the date of registration of the non-law and question proposition, the general elections were not called up; yes, the municipal elections, because we all know that they have a fixed date. He also said that the question was a semantic question -- understanding or I want to understand that he was referring, in the use of that term, to name something -- and also that it was a question of form, but not of content. The truth is that a law of sustainable mobility was a necessity for the People's Party in the summer of 2016 — the pre-election period — when it proposed it in its program. In this sense, I also refer to what Mr. President of the Galician Union has just mentioned in his electoral programme, where they said: "New mobility law: the necessary legal framework will be established to meet the needs of everyone in the right conditions of security, accessibility, equality, quality and sustainability. The main objective is that Galicia has an efficient, intermodal and modern public transport system, because the important thing is the search and materialization of the deployment of quality and modern services that meet the needs of citizens beyond the competence limits of each administration." That's what was literally included in the Popular Party program. The answer we received from the Director General was -- as if not! -- at the entrance, that we had a problem of ignoring the legislative activity; this is not a novelty, that is, the incompetence of the opposition versus the Government's solvency. And so it was said that this law of sustainable mobility was not necessary because it was all done; that is yes, in different places, areas, normative ranges and even in some document that is not ranked, not even so resolution. Let's see what we were told in that commission and let's see if the level of ignorance is or is not so high: First of all, Law 10/2016, of 19 July, of urgent measures to update Galicia's public transport system, which regulates Galicia's public transport plan and which is supposed to be a fundamental part of that sustainable mobility law in itself. The term "sustainable" appears twice. In this law there are three articles: one referring to the object of the law, one defining the Galician Public Transport Plan and another on the guarantee of the provision of services; that is, it introduces an additional provision for the provision of services in the transitional period. And this seems to be already a part of the law of sustainable mobility. We were told after Law 2/2017, of 8 February, of tax, administrative and management measures, which dedicates its title III — and that is true — to the management of the regular passenger transport system. That title has four chapters, but none of them makes the slightest reference to sustainable mobility in any of the articles. I urge your lordships, if they don't find a better reading to reconcile sleep, they always use tedious legislative text; therefore, at any time they can check whether what I'm saying is true or not. It does not appear — I repeat — once the term "sustainable". We have also been told — and this is very picturesque — of the February 11, 2019 Order that regulates the identification badges of vehicles dedicated to the rental of vehicles, that is, the famous VTC. That seems to be part of sustainable mobility too. We were told about the Galician Metropolitan Transport Plan, the intermodal stations, the Safe Path Plan, the Galician entrance into the Atlantic corridor and, as it does not, the Galician Public Transport Plan, which seems to be already the new law of sustainable mobility. But, as we all know, Galicia's public transport plan is a planning, organization and management document, and it's not a law. It contains — and these are the advantages of PDF articles, which can quickly look for things — exactly seven times in one hundred ninety-seven pages the term "sustainable", and some of them, by the way, -- tenteen— referring to economic sustainability. Given what, I think it's been missing some reference to which, for example, the laws of celestial mechanics also relate to Galicia's sustainable mobility. I mean, we don't need a new law because there are already some -- including Newtonian mechanics -- that set up something about this plan. The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, modern societies demand a high and varied mobility that requires a complex transport system, adapted to social needs and that ensures the displacement of people and commodities in an economically efficient and secure way, but all of this is subject to environmental rationality and related to the logic of the sustainability paradigm. We are therefore faced with a problem with two clearly differentiated components: the displacements of people and of goods, to which simultaneous solutions must be given. In the case of passenger transport, in addition to constituting a service to the consumer, it plays an important role in the effective functioning of the labour market and economic development, and it is of particular importance for those who do not have access to private locomotives in rural areas and those who suffer from mobility problems. We need a law — a single legislative text, therefore — to be done on the principles of security, minimization of environmental impact, minimization of social costs, intermodality, sustainability and rational use of the territory; what value costs and management; to give priority to universal accessibility in the allocation of public resources, and to promote coordination between different public administrations. A law that aims to guarantee the right of citizenship to universal accessibility, with specific attention — yes — to persons with disabilities, to older persons, to children and, in particular, to those living in rural areas; that improves the environmental quality and health of the population by reducing pollution, including acoustics, associated with transport; that helps to mitigate climate change — unfortunately, I believe that already out of the question — by reducing the volume of greenhouse gases emitted by motor vehicles; that integrates urban and economic development policies and mobility policies; and that ultimately contributes to making our Galician Transport Plan and the mobility of people and commodities — as I said — sustainable and efficient. There are examples — and the last one mentioned at the time — that that law is necessary and that can be done: the last published was that of transport and sustainable security of the Principality of Asturias. We believe, frankly, that this is an opportunity we should not lose. We can't self-deception by saying that this law is not necessary because it is already in different documents; I insist, one of them without any kind of normative range and others that nothing has to do with sustainable mobility, because what they do is organize administratively the adjudications related to transport lines. We therefore urge that the Council of Galicia, before the end of this legislation, draw up and transmit to the Greek Parliament, for its approval, a law of sustainable mobility which meets the most demanding criteria currently out of all discussion. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u126	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u127	Thank you, President. Good morning. To these debates such as what we had yesterday about waste and also about mobility, and to the debates, in general, about the environment, you can apply that story to the fable of the King's new suit: they highlight all the shame of the policies of the People's Party, the lack and total absence of brave and determined policies, the lack of foresight and the lack of planning on these matters, which is replaced by decorated, cosmetics, makeup and also by much propaganda. Because for that they have those supercontracts with a company, for example, at the Infrastructure and Mobility Council: to invest — or to spend, better said — almost two million euros on advertising, selling smoke and selling sustainability, which is the word of fashion. Put sustainability in your life, I'm sure you'll win. Well, the Government of the Union also applies this maxim, and it says that — it is an absolutely hollow and empty speech — that Galicia is at the vanguard, when it is really in line with all these policies. And, thus, the same environmental adviser — former advisor, already finished as advisor — Beatriz Mato, on November 31, 2017, presented — better said, announced —, nothing more and nothing less than the Naturgy Chair — is the stage they chose; symbiosis is perfect — the Greek sustainability strategy, of which a draft would be presented in the first half of 2018. Nothing at all! They did the first phase and are now with the second phase, but there is nothing yet done, drafted, applied and vigilant, just like the strategy of the circular economy, the strategy of climate change... that is, strategy, strategy and strategy, but there is nothing, and less in mobility policies, which is a central issue, in addition, to fight against climate change — in addition to waste policy, urban policy, industrial policy or forest — and, in addition, understanding that all modes of mobility for people and commodities need to be addressed. It turns out there's a state strategy of sustainable mobility since 2009, and Galicia hasn't done its homework. Because we've been with that strategy for ten years, which is very good, but it's not even made that strategy here. Here we can say there's no one on the wheel, no one in charge. And so this intervention by the Director General of Mobility, which confuses chourizo with speed, is explained exclusively by public road transport, as if mobility had been reduced to public road transport. What did you guys do? They made Plan Move, which we already know what it is, a road transport plan that they didn't even get to meet. They made a master plan for alternative mobility, yes, we have to say. And they invested there, spent, better said, more than 300,000 euros on a plan that's being pulled, stored in a drawer, since 2013. They didn't have the courage to apply that plan that sought to promote alternative mobility, natural mobility, peonil and cyclist mobility. They pull the money, they're very bad managers. It's a waste of public money. They announced a German railway agency to manage rail freight transport from Galicia, and nothing at all. They couldn't move forward with that project. Public road transport has already been told that it was a missed opportunity, and they walk there with patches, with partial measures to see if they do something about it, when you have to have a comprehensive overview that covers all modes of mobility. We have to make a policy, as we say, brave and determined, as it is being done in Galicia by some administrations that are referenced, are a world-wide award-winning reference, such as the projects that are being done since the Pontevedra Deputy, for example, or the Pontevedra Council, which we have here and which are also published to take note, to learn, to use, to apply. And the Galician Union — we have told you many times — should take advantage of these experiences to apply them, to make territorial plans for sustainable mobility, local plans for sustainable mobility, so that these experiences can be done throughout Galicia. Of course, in order to make a sustainable mobility policy, in addition to a law, you have to have competence. And this is another pending subject of the German Government, which does not defend its own competences in central mobility issues, such as railways, for example roads, traffic, road safety, AP-9, police or ports and airports. Without really having control and ability to decide in all those areas, it's hard to make an integral strategy for sustainable mobility. So since the BNG we are going to support this proposal, because it coincides with everything we have been defending throughout this legislation and in the past in this regard, and because we think that Galicia is in the queue van in this matter, that she should get out of there and that the Union should, once and for all, take decisive, courageous policies, act with foresight and planning in this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u128	Thank you, Mr Bará. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u129	Good morning to all and to all. Thank you, President. Go ahead and we will support this initiative. It seems to us entirely appropriate to bring this initiative to speak of sustainable mobility and remind the People's Party that sustainability must be a central, fundamental and priority axis in all government actions; and especially when we talk about mobility, one of the fundamental fields for combating climate change, because it is one of the fundamental areas that contributes to climate change and is at the heart of the problems we face as a society. We can't continue to allow ourselves to be ruled by looking to the other side as the environmental crisis and climate change continues to worsen, because we literally live in it. We cannot afford to rule that, even if we are beginning to suffer the consequences of climate change -- because we are already suffering them here in Galicia, in the global south, they have been suffering for many years, and we are suffering them now with droughts, with fires of the fourth generation, as we are seeing these same days -- even if we are already living climate change, they are still without decisive wood action against this problem. Last March 15th, there was climate 15M, where the student mobilized to call the responsibility of governments, and to point out responsible for the governments that come over for decades making decisions that brought us to this situation and the governments that today, knowing this situation, continue without urgent and decisive action to combat this serious problem. It's urgent to act. In the field of sustainability, things were not done right, but, of course, we wouldn't be in this situation. And this initiative proposes moving forward in a field such as mobility, particularly in sustainable mobility, because it is a fundamental field for the fight against climate change. We're too used to listening to beautiful speeches. Mr Bará said they use the word "sustainability" constantly. But the reality is that the facts are what they are and the measures they need are not being taken. We need to dynamize public transport by road and not cut budgets in the transport plan, as you do; listen, talk and find the best public transport by road possible, dynamize that kind of transport. We need to dynamize the railway and not the other way around, which is what you did during the seven years of government in the state. The only action they did on the railway in Galicia was to destroy the nearby service. That was the only railway performance of the People's Development Party over the past seven years. We have to move forward in the electrical vehicle infrastructure, we have to bet on active mobility, on foot or on bicycle, generating bike paths, not what you're doing. You'll come here saying you're doing them, but obviously the paths that the Galician Union is doing are not for mobility in terms of security and therefore not useful. And, as Mr. Bará has said, you are throwing a lot of money that is not for the purpose of what they are supposed to serve. In public transport by road, everything they're doing with this is a real spook, as we've already seen reporting on different occasions. With the railway, the same thing: seven years without any performance on the network would travel more than the proximity service would be loaded. And the bike paths because they are the ones. This is reality, and with this reality and this kind of policy we have no future. The People's Party has passed over the negationism. Until recently, less than ten years ago, the People's Party continued to maintain that climate change did not exist — acquiesced by Rajoy's brother-in-law. At least today they don't deny it. At least today in the speeches they're talking about climate change, they're talking about sustainability. But they still don't do the necessary performances. It's very difficult to wait for solutions from a government -- as we saw yesterday with the environmental advisor in their presence -- that doesn't take this problem seriously. What can we expect if when we make the presentation—another presentation!—of the draft waste management law does not talk about climate change and tell us that the Sogama model is a galactic reference, which is the best waste management model in the world? It's the worst decision to fight climate change, a model that emits amounts of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere, burning more than 60% of the resources it generates, which emits a large amount of greenhouse gases and transports garbage all over Galicia. The Sogama Plan, Sogama's waste management model is the worst possible decision to combat climate change. Obviously, we can't expect much from a government that says it's the best model possible, being in the context of environmental crisis and climate change in which we find ourselves. We can't expect much from a government that considers burning waste to be the best formula for waste management. You can't expect much from a government that assumes a waste management model that recycles 3.4 percent -- in the last memory we count -- and what even the environmental advisor himself refuses to give the recycling data he's doing today, because he knows they're very negative. We can't wait any longer for the People's Party. We can't expect much from this government for all he's been doing. But we can expect a lot of the new generations, which are clear that we can't go on this path, that we have begun to mobilize and that we hope they can generate enough consciousness so that society will be clear that it can't follow the People's Party ruling in any institution. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u130	Thank you, Mr. Cal. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u131	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. Mr. Álvarez, I'm afraid the tree won't let you see the forest. The program's going to be done, so I'll try to show it to you. If you looked at the forest, that's what we're talking about, and not the tree, if you've read this whole section of the program and you hadn't done it in part, you'd see that you're talking about articulating a Welsh strategy of expansion and promotion of public transport, with several sections that are already being implemented; and so you're fulfilling the program. The non-law proposal, therefore, I think it's quite partial and it doesn't go to the bottom of the matter, which is the modernization of mobility making it sustainable, which is what our program proposes and what this Government is doing. Here I leave it to you, if you want me to read everything, and not partially, the program. Obviously the whole of a subject — which is, of course, very cross-sectional — and all the work done by the Government. He speaks of other autonomous communities. Every government, every autonomous community, focuses on solving problems in a different way. Some of these things do with laws -- you named some -- and others do with plans only. And in the case of Greek we do it with a mixed system of plans and laws, with both. And I say this double side and explain myself. On the one hand, there is a global strategy for sustainability and combating climate change. By developing the landing of sustainable development goals, ODS, the United Nations 2030 Agenda and European policies, and landing those 169 measures. On the other hand, this Welsh Strategy is made against climate change and energy 2050; and in addition, right now, right now, the 2019-2023 operational plan is open to the public for allegations. I mean, within that strategy we're already in publications, this government is already publishing a first operational plan of the Strategy against Climate Change 2050. And by the way, if they really cared about sustainable mobility, Mr. Álvarez, if they really cared about climate change, they would come to those tables that were invited to; or, now in public exposure, they would make some kind of claim to that strategy and that operational plan. I have already said that it is now open to comments and has been done in dialogue with society as a whole, less with opposition groups, who have not considered it appropriate. I say this among many other documents — some of them who spoke. On the one hand, I'm talking about a comprehensive strategy of sustainability and climate change that is developing the Government of Galicia and, on the other hand, of plans, regulations, laws and concrete actions that it develops within the concrete area of mobility and transport, both of citizens and of commodities. So many of them are even developing. In the policy area we spoke of that law of 2016, which expressly, in addition, speaks of achieving that sustainable mobility. It also spoke — approved within this legislation — of Law 2/2017 of 8 February, which in Title III incorporates the urgent regulatory requirements and, as it says, establishes the necessary legal framework. This law also establishes the necessary legal framework. So the proposal of the program to establish a legal framework is also collected in the legislative texts, but above all, what is important is that these issues are cross-cutting, they are global governance and they are global advice. And that's why it's developing, not only the Global Sustainability Strategy and Climate Change, all over the German Government, but also that integral Sustainable Mobility Strategy, of the Council itself. So that global and integral strategy of sustainable mobility has a lot of documents, many, to which some of you have even referred now: the plan director of alternative mobility, of what they were talking about -- they will not like, but they could also contribute and comment on -- the Galician Public Transport Plan, a document that is not only environmentally sustainable, but it is very important to lose social sustainability for this community, especially rural, which incorporates environmental criteria at the time of hiring services, as you know; the Galician Metro Transport Plan, another of the major contributions to this sustainable mobility, which rewards nearly 15 million bus trips across Galicia, except in some city, which you know you don't want to incorporate. The best way to talk about this sustainable mobility is by planning strategically and globally — which is what the Government is doing — is by planning, investing and approving concrete documents for the development of this law. And this is what the German Government is doing. And among them is also the Galician Roadmap, the entire Intermodality Plan, with the running intermodal stations, all public transport regulations. I sincerely believe that this global strategy against climate change and sustainable mobility is being appropriately combined with specific documents, regulations and legislation, which are the legal documents needed to develop what the programme said, which is a global strategy for sustainable mobility. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u132	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank the support of both the Galego Nationalist Block and the En Marea Group for this non-law proposal. I think it's nothing exceptional or anomalous that we agree with concern about the environment and, in particular, sustainable mobility. Mr. Fernández Prado, you've been pleased that we care about the environment. And I'm going to tell you that, with regard to the Welsh Strategy for Environmental Change, Mrs. Patricia Vilán has held a meeting with the Director General of Environmental Quality to study the content of that plan. In any case, if you consider it appropriate to be accredited by means of photographs or inclusion in the agenda, as Paula Prado did or asked for yesterday about the work of parliamentarians — in particular the Socialist Parliamentary Group — we can study it. But there's a question that forcefully attracts my attention. Very bad they must be giving the electoral tracks lately, because, let's say what we say, we debate what we discuss, they always end up showing up Vigo, Lugo, La Coruña, Ferrol, Pontevedra... we talk about the cultivation of the verza in the Anchors and their answer is: The verza is quite bad in Vigo, very bad in Lugo and regular in Ferrol. [[Laughter]] And that's the reality that we've had lately, as much as we're talking about, this is the reality that you're installed in. [[Applause]] And now we find that there are autonomous communities that actually regulated through laws and autonomous communities that published plans. And you chose the hybrid solution, that is, laws and plans. What is not in the law we have in a plan, and for what is not in the plan there is a law. But, look, the problem with those laws you referred to -- and you know very well -- I quote it not explicitly, but I don't have time to do it either. We can talk about Title III of Law 2/2017, the management of the regular passenger transport system. What does this regulation apply to sustainable mobility? It's an instrumental law to organize this management system exclusively. Sustainable mobility is a much more advanced concept than instrumentizing how buses travel, how trucks travel, how trains travel, how people and goods move. It goes a lot further, you have to have a much broader view. What happens is, of course, you've been late for years in incorporating this concern into the environment. They've been late for years and therefore they have to move much faster, and they're not doing it, at the right speed to get to where we all want to go. And so, I think you come here to say here and insist that, the basis of laws, on one side, and plans, on another, we've already gone through the entire Welsh strategy of sustainable mobility is to deceive us. You know it's not like that. You know that what is published, which has the rank of law, refers to the organization and instrumentation of the transport system — especially everything, or almost exclusively, that of travellers. He's not talking about transporting merchandise. But I made reference to the goals that should have that law, which will not go forward because you say it's not necessary. But, look, with respect to the plan, you don't have to leave me, I have your PDF plan -- as I'm sure you have our own in the same format. His plan expressly said "new mobility law." Say what you said below, you said it was necessary to make a new mobility law; therefore, you fulfill that commitment to "Galicia, Galicia, Galicia." And give him forward and allow him to pass this non-law proposal. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u134	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and two other Members, on the elaboration and approval by the Government of Galicia, before the end of 2019 and with the participation of parliamentary groups, of a new urban waste management plan in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u135	An amendment was tabled by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u136	To formulate the proposal, you have the floor to Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u137	Thank you, President. Good morning to all Members. Good morning to our audience too. I'm a fan of childhood stories. And there is a childhood story, which is Alice in the country of wonders, which has as its special protagonist a rabbit — we all know what it is — that spends time saying 'I'm late, I'm late, I'm late, I'm late...' It takes almost all the performances a watch and runs saying "I'm late, I'm late, I'm late..." Well, you, in relation to climate change, are Alice's rabbit. The counselor is Alice's rabbit saying she's late, she's late. Because, indeed, it is almost impossible not to be late, from negationism, to climate change and to the fires of this night and yesterday and yesterday in Galicia. [[Applause]] If the Minister of Ecological Transition is fundamentalist, in this parliamentary group we are all fundamentalists in defending the environment and in denouncing climate change. If that consists, we are all fundamentalists and we are very proud to be fundamentalists. You are Alice's rabbit, though we like it, or that I especially like it. Yesterday the counsellor in his audience, indeed, said he was late. He said that waste legislation is obsolete — the Greek —. She's so obsolete that she was born obsolete in 2008. He also told us that the preliminary draft of the new Law on Waste and Contaminated Soils -- if he's almost blown two birthday candles because it's nothing more than a preliminary draft -- will promote the prevention and reuse of waste and intensify the fight against plastics. And in addition to this position in his speech, he also defended the Community hierarchy, European Union legislation, for waste management. Well, we're also on that line. This must be the third or fourth non-law proposal that we bring about to change Galicia's Urban Waste Management Plan in this and the previous legislation. We're on that line, and they always voted against us, of course. But I'm sure today — I'm convinced, after yesterday's Environment Adviser's intervention — you'll be rectified, you'll stop being Alice's rabbit and you'll vote for it. Why? Because the urban waste management plan initially went from 2010 to 2020. Now it goes until 2022, the closure was changed in 2016. And why did he do it? Because you failed and it's still a failure. There are no mass awareness campaigns, no matter how many of you tell us there are mass awareness campaigns. And right now, for some time now, unfortunately, that's what's needed. There is no prevention or reuse, and when a new system of prevention is called for, and not going to the recycling phase, but it's already in the prevention phase, you vote against it. The evidence is that the organic fraction — I said yesterday — of municipal waste is 42% of the total weight of black stock garbage in Galicia. And they are not data from the Socialist Parliamentary Group — which is very evil, is evil and evil, and is also always inventing the data — but is data from the Galician Council itself specifically offered by the Government of the United States. And since this organic part of the waste fraction isn't right, the problem in the management process is very serious. And that's what the Director General of Environmental Quality said to us once he said -- in the press round, of course, because everything is done in front of the gallery -- that would constitute a table of waste. And she herself acknowledged that it is necessary to encourage the separate collection of bioresidues — that is, this organic fraction of garbage — to give a new life to that organic fraction through compost, through composting. Well, at this point, the questions are clear. First, where are the 11 plants, specifically composting and light packaging distributed through the territory that provides for Galicia's Urban Waste Management Plan? Where are they? There is one in Cerceda, in Sogama, annexed to Sogama, which has not been working for more than a year. The second question: why has this government decision changed? Because — we said yesterday — in Galicia only 5% — does not reach 5% — of what Sogama is re-used or recycled. In addition, the European Commission has issued a report saying that Galicia and the Canary Islands do not reach even 20% of the recycling of municipal waste. The objectives of the European Union, the European Waste Directive, are that we have to reach 50% of recycling by 2020. And it's a little over a year, a year and a peak, less than two years, and we're in less than 20%. And the government tells us that, by continuing with this recycling policy that they are using until now — with clocks and running a rabbit through the country ahead — we will be able to rise from not even 20% to 50% in the year and half. Well, they'll tell us how they're gonna do it, because we don't believe that story. The fact is that, in addition, populations of more than 5,000 inhabitants have to undertake to implement the selective collection of organic waste by the end of 2020; and those of less than 5,000, by the end of 2023. We don't get to those goals or joke about this policy if you don't change it. That's why we think it's necessary to change Galicia's Urban Waste Management Plan, we've been telling you for quite a while. And you guys have a pretty simple formula. This means putting money on the table, of course, but they have an easy way to do it. And this morning our spokesman spoke of her -- the president of the board also spoke of her differently. It is in the Official State Gazette of 4 July 2018 — Mr. Mariano Rajoy ruled. And in the additional provision 100th seventh of the following, it says that these remaining quantities can be used, quantities claimed by the President of the Union of 2017 — from 2018 to 2018, in this case — to invest in —he literally read it—......invest in the long term in activities that have a direct and verifiable positive impact on the sustainability of public finances and the potential growth of the economy. In particular, the investment to carry out under this precept must have positive effects for climate change, contribute to energy efficiency, or it is an investment that prevents recurrent costs or implies savings in future exercises." I mean, not for health, as Mariano Rajoy said — that it was who marked the norm, and that, of course, our Government can now change, and we are asking for it to do so — but never for other things that didn't have to do with climate change and the improvement of energy efficiency. And in fact, that's what you can do with a new urban waste management plan in Galicia, you can put in place those 11 composting plants that you yourself said in 2010 that they were going to do in 2020. And we're in 2019 and they're a little like Alice's story in the country of wonders. We simply ask them to use the model of change of Galicia's Urban Waste Management Plan to ask them in our non-law proposal: to focus on the community hierarchy, to have as targets less generation, maximum levels of recycling, limited incineration only for everything that is not reusable or recyclable, to eliminate the landfills, and to have Sogama as the last destination. In fact, in Europe there are incinerators — in all sites there are incinerators — because everything that does not enter into prevention, recycling, nor reuse, necessarily has to incinerate, and what does not enter into the organic matter that can be composted has to be incinerated. But what reaches Europe is a minimum, not everything that reaches Sogama in this country. So here's the diagnostic mistake you've made from the beginning, and that's why we're right now where we are. We also call on them to include priority funding for actions and improvement of selective collection, including prevention, awareness-raising. And they use those amounts that the Official State Bulletin actually tells them they can use to fight climate change and improve energy efficiency. Cerceda's compost plant, which is not functioning yet, has been released for 4 million euros. It cost more, but it's leached by 4 million. That is, those 11 plants would be sold, in total, for 44 million euros. They have money, that this Official State Gazette would allow us to use not for those "grandmother's" tales that the president of the board tells us. And if you vote in favour, you can sometimes prove that Rajoy's cousin stayed on a property log with his other cousin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u139	Today we are again talking about the waste and the urban waste management plan of Galicia 2010-2020 — now 2022 —. And we really have to say that the problem is not the plan, the problem is that the plan is not met. Because if you did the plan, things would really get much better. The reality is that you systematically violate waste regulation. They stand outside the law. If this were a cowboy movie, you would be an outlaw, an outlaw who violates the law. They do not comply with the European Waste Directive, they do not comply with the State Waste Act — which in its Article 24 provides that autonomous plans must lay down measures for the separation and treatment of bioresidues —, they do not comply with the Framework State Waste Plan, Pemar, which also sets out that the autonomous plans in their revisions must clarify, specify, as is the task of collecting and managing bioresidues to meet that objective, indeed, 50% by 2020. Not by 2020, Pemar says before 2020. I mean, this year, these targets should be met, they're not going to be fulfilled because they haven't done their homework. And in addition, there is the amendment to Article 24 of the Waste Law, which specifically says that we must establish the separate collection of bioresidues before December 31, 2020, and that we must also ensure the treatment of these bioresidues through plants, of those 12 ghost plants that do not exist; or also through self-composing, which is nothing more and nothing less than domestic and community composting. Because you're making a crusade against community composting that's implementing the Pontevedra Deputy through the Revitalization Plan. And the reality is that this amendment of the law speaks, like one of the solutions, of domestic composting and also of the community. By the way, a community compost to which the Town Councils of the People's Party are also targeted. Seen, Sanxenxo, Baiona, Roundabout, Soutomaier, Sardinian-Cotobade, Valga, Marín, Mondariz-Balneario, all these municipalities, are applying the criteria of Revitalization and composting community. Something good's coming from you. Yes, Mr. Moreira, don't say no. You're trying to boycott him but the municipalities are pointing. Not only are they targeting themselves, because Mondariz-Balneario already uses it as an integral system, not as an experimental phase, as an integral system. And they don't do all those composting plant forecasts. I'm saying it's not the only solution, it's going to be avoided building all these plants if composting is also applied in the community. Because the three gold rules of the Revitalize Plan — which should be the plan for the future for what you were looking at — consist, nothing more and nothing less, in which the best residue is the one that does not produce; in case it happens, the best residue is what you don't have to collect; and thirdly, what you don't have to transport. That is precisely the philosophy of Revitalize: domestic composting, composting and, for areas where these criteria cannot be applied, composting on the floor. And we have already made them here on numerous occasions proposed to implement all this legislation, to apply the very plan of the Greek waste, which says in particular — on page 22 — that the development of the plants included in this planning must progress progressively and gradually. Yesterday, the advisor told us that these 12 plants were going to be built less than 45 kilometers. But what plan is that?, what forecast?, what projects?, what location?, who did they talk to in order to develop that planning? There's nothing, it was a statement to the gallery that gave us here yesterday to slip the bulk, nothing more than that. And you're on a run forward, in addition, that also violates the Welsh plan, because you've just hired nearly 500 million euros in a 15-year contract to expand the Cerceda plant, so you can burn all the garbage from all of Galicia and a ten-year transport contract. I mean, a real mortgage for the future for any alternative to this one, with a system that is polluting, which is expensive, which is centralized, which is a wasteland. We offered them sincere offers to talk, to sit down and talk. And given the transcendence of this theme, you should do a Welsh conference on waste to study all alternatives, to see also the compatibility of the Sogama system with these other compost-based alternatives, and to look for a solution for the future that meets all these European standards and passes through a very simple rule: the minimum of incineration, the maximum of recovery and recycling and, therefore, the maximum of composting.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u140	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u141	This is the proposal BNG is betting on. Let's hope they can hear it and don't take us to the abyss where you're with that run to the front of the Sogama Plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u142	Thank you, Mr Bará. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u143	Good morning. Mr Bará said that the People's Party, the Galician Union, for failing to comply with its own plans, its own legislation, are outlawed—if it had been a movie from the west. No, no, they would be the corrupt sheriff who works for the powerful people. That's more appropriate for the work the People's Party is doing in waste management and in the Sogama model. Because — I insist — behind all of this is not only the incompetence, which too, is not the ineffectiveness of a government not to comply even with the plans they approve, but rather the interest. And I repeat my obsession with Naturgy—Naturgy—Natural-Finosa Gas previously—which is the one that really is behind Sogama's business. He's a shareholder of 49% of Sogama Public Society shares. Natural-Fenosa gas repeatedly receives gas and electricity supply contracts since Sogama exists, practically, despite the warnings of the Council of Auditors of the conflict of interest to always give the contracts to the company that it has 49% of the shares — millionaire contracts: EUR 41 million for the supply of gas, EUR 20 million for the supply of electricity. This is therefore behind the failure to comply with the European directive, the waste treatment hierarchy of the European directive. The spokesperson for the People's Party will come here and will not respond to the fundamental, will not answer whether the targets marked by Europe for the year 2020 — which we are in 2019, I think — will not answer if it is good that in recent years the incinerated amount of waste in Sogama has increased dramatically, whether that is a good data or not — because 61% of the waste entering Sogama is incinerated, and growing. But what incentives will the company have to reduce incineration and increase recycling?, what incentives? He'd finish his business. So everything's behind that. And, of course, with the initiative presented to us by the Socialist Party, we agree. Although we also agree with the BNG that the problem is not the plan, the plan 2010-2022 — which is not good — the problem is that the plan is not being met. For example, in order to carry out the plan, we would have had to do the work of decentralization of waste treatment. This falls from the drawer. What's not rational is having a system that makes us move waste all over the country, with organic matter in its composition 80% is water, which weighs, which has a cost, which has an environmental cost, which is a factory of environmental change, etc. No, normal is, first, reduction, prevention. And how much of the budgets of the Galician Union goes to prevention policies and how much of the incineration policies? Well, after prevention will come reuse, or recycling. And recycling must be done near the waste production centre. How much budget of the Galician Union was for organic matter composting policies, for example? They promised 11 recycling plants, and how many are there? Not one. It will finally be made in Cerceda a plant capable of treating 15,000 tons of organic matter. What are the objectives of the capacity of the current plan, approved with the votes of the People's Party? It's 247,000 tons. I mean, it's impossible for us to come up with the plan in that respect. So the plan is not good, we have to do another one, we agree. But the main problem is that the People's Party doesn't meet the plan and doesn't care. And then the People's Party will teach us lessons in compliance with the law. Finally, what you have to explain, and that you didn't explain yesterday to the advisor, is it: for the People's Party is good news that, in the last year of the data, the waste treated by Sogama had increased by 4.6%? It's good data, because yesterday the advisor sold it as a good data. And what this data tells us is that waste prevention and reduction policies are not working. Is it good that the latest official data from Sogama itself say that only 11% is recycled and 89% is eliminated? And is it good that the greenhouse gases have increased dramatically, according to Sogama's activity memory, in 2015? They increased greenhouse gases per tonne treated in the waste range by 47.7% in 2015, 47.7%! It's a greenhouse gas production plant, not counting transport to power station. Gas generation rose due to incineration by 35%; in a dump, by 120%. The spokesperson for the People's Party will probably come here and he won't answer anything you've been asked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u144	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u145	Good morning, gentlemen. I am pleased that literary references are made in this House. What happens is that sometimes... No, it was that of Mrs. Vilán, because you know that before the film there was a very well-known book that I think should read everyone. [[Murmurs.]] Look, of course, that book would be the Blue Orga. You give him exactly what I tell him, because you're going to debate everything, you're going to deny what I tell him and he's going to do it in the wrong way. With which, that book is very good because there are characters for everyone. You fit that character very well. As for the White Rabbit, Mrs. Vilán, you should know that he speaks of an interesting character who symbolizes those who make a discovery journey, that's what White Rabbit represents in that book. This role was widely used in the literature. Dante did it with the descent to hell through Virxil, who was his guide. Later on, more recently, this character was introduced into the Matrix movie. I suppose that's what you'd see, with which you'll have that reference from the movies as well. But look, there's also another character, which is the March Hare. Do you know why you put that character in the movie, or the book? Because the hares in March go crazy. Tolean, Your Honor. And it seems to you that it happens to the March hares. It's true that there are other characters that may have more literary content and more repercussions, such as Humpty Dumpty, but I suppose that's going to be a lot for you. Look, Mrs. Vilán, yesterday I spoke here about the good management of Sogama, who left behind the bad years of the Bipartite, years of disproportionate wages, years of diets, years of plugs, and which allowed you now to take a very good measure, very good for the environment and very good for the Greeks. Why? Because it involves the fall of the cannon. That drop has to impact on the Greeks, which means that the waste produced is also reduced and the recycling rates increased. Most of Galician municipalities have joined this downhill—except those of the Galician Socialist Party, which, with concerted action, seek to boycott a good measure, a good measure for the Greeks and a good measure for the environment—, most of Galician municipalities. And it doesn't matter if he's the mayor. There are tide governments who have joined this measure, also the Nationalist Block and, of course, also the People's Party, except those of the Galician Socialist Party — except for most, because if there were any who gave priority to their neighbours in front of their party's slogans. What I don't know -- and that's what I'm wondering about -- is why the Socialist Party in Galicia gave the message that its mayors didn't lower the cannon, why they don't want the cannon to be lowered, why they don't want to impact those measures on the Greeks, why they don't want the garbage production to be reduced, and why they don't want the recycling rates to be increased. You should answer that, because I think it's pretty serious. I do believe that you are harmful to Galicia, and I am in fact in measures like this. It is true that you have a curriculum of harmful facts for Galicia, such as the reduction of 30% of investments — that you applaud, I don't know why. I don't know what you see as positive that the state invests by 30% less in our community, or why you are in favour of a statute for electrointensive companies that is terribly harmful to the interests of the Greeks. But that's just a sum and it goes on. As far as you're concerned, Your Honor, Galicia already has a complete urban waste management plan, and recently updated with vigil until 2022. That's why that's the road map of the German Government. In relation to the points you're asking for in your LNP, look, you're living in a parallel reality. They think that the Greeks and the media will continue behind you doing or believing that whatever you say is part of reality. And it's not like that. Look, you put a list of requirements to give you the feeling, or the impression, that you're listening to us that the current plan doesn't meet them, and that's completely false. Everything you're asking me to do with the current plan, everything! And it couldn't be any other way, because the law requires it to be that way. Look, at the third point, you ask Sogama to be a model of complementary management to others closer to the territory. You also don't listen, and you don't even listen to the other spokespersons in this House. The Sogama model is a complementary model of these other treatment systems or models that can be implemented in any municipality or local entity, that by mandate... Mr Bará says it does not. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ah!, I don't know, Mr. Bará, where they send what they don't treat in their composers, I don't know where they send him. Send it to Sogama! Why? Because Sogama allows everything, which is 99.9%, that you are unable to deal with, to be sent to Sogama and that Sogama treats it. It's a system that complements your whims. If you want to spend 10 million on that, you can do it, you can do it, and then 99.9 % -- what you don't know what to do -- will send it to Sogama. That's why Sogama is complementary, and you in any council in which they govern can do all the measures they want to empower the composers, you can do any measure...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u146	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u147	...to reduce waste production, you can improve recycling, you can do it in any municipality, any one! Sogama doesn't imply that. More like that, you can say how many tons you want to send to Sogama. Sogama does not force them to send a minimum of tons. But they don't, they don't, and they prefer to confuse citizenship.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u148	Thank you. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u149	Similarly, the rest of the points that you say, all the points, are laid down in the current plan: the hierarchy set out in the 2008 Directive; which is set as the goal of the generation; more recycling; that these reusable or recyclable materials are not incinerated; and of course also the disposal of landfills.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u150	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u151	And I want to remind you what Galician stage was several decades ago and what's the stage for now. Before...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u152	Thank you, thank you. Your time is up. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u153	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank both BNG and En Marea for their support. We also accept the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the BNG, because we believe it adds, which gives our request for the change of Galicia's Urban Waste Management Plan. And we regret that the Group of the People's Party does not support this request, because it goes against, firstly, what the Counsellor told us yesterday, absolutely against. And of course, Mr. Trenor was here when he spoke to the counselor, but she spoke in a more abstract sense, with much more beautiful words, and Mr. Trenor came here to make the placard that touches him as an environmental spokesman. You said in March the hares go crazy. Maybe March 29th, even May 27th, are the rabbits running around with the clock. And you see — the answers you make at every moment, when they get up here — that they're already going crazy before, it's not necessary to even wait on March 29. [[Applause]] We'll see March 29th and see May 27th who's crazy before and who's crazy after. Of course, Mr. Trenor, you cannot say that the Galician Urban Waste Management Plan is already being fulfilled, because it expressly foresees eleven compost plants, waste management throughout the territory, and does not exist. There's one. Then, at least, there's a part that's not met. At least ten eleven; an important part that is not being complied with. And that you say that we live in a parallel reality when yesterday's advisor fired with this sentence: They're quiet, they're going to have a plant every 45 kilometers to carry the bioresidues... that's what he said. Not eleven, but hundreds of plants. There'll be thousands of plants all over Galicia. He said, they'll have a plant every 45 kilometers to carry the bioresidues. But for that it is necessary to modify Galicia's Urban Waste Management Plan again, because that is not envisaged. Well, you could make a amendment to our non-law proposal, and we would come to an agreement on that amendment, because that's not in the current plan either — modified in 2016 — either. And don't fool yourself, don't cheat. There's no drop of the cannon, it's not a bonus. What happened was a 33% canon climb, at a moment of deep crisis in 2013, which you decided. We would ask you not, after the benefits of Sogama of millions of euros, and you went down first 10% and then another 10%. That's not a bonus, that's a 20% drop against 33% of the increase that you've decided exclusively, and they've imposed on the municipalities. Don't lie, don't lie! [[Applause]] And we're going to be very bad, evil. It's even good to be the bad guy in the movie, which is always much more fun than the good guy in the movie. But much more damaging is how it was, as it is and how it was, for example, in relation to the environment, its vice-president of the Government, Mrs. Soraya Sáenz of Santamaría, who was responsible for reforming the legislation on renewable energies, who cut the profitability of companies dedicated to renewable energies, and who now works for an office of lawyers that makes claims to the kingdom of Spain precisely for those cuts to the court of arbitration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u154	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u155	That's really bad for the country. Not the PSdeg or the Socialist Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u156	Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament regarding the demands of the Bosch company staff, based in Vigo, as well as the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the temporary employment regulation file submitted by the company
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u157	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. To make it speak to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u158	Good morning. First of all, I want to greet the union representatives of Bosch and Vodafone who accompany us from the rostrum and transfer them to the Bosch workers and workers from Vigo headquarters the support and solidarity in this day of strike that is taking place today, which, for the information we have, is having a very broad follow-up. And today we bring this initiative here because the decision of the Spanish governments to liberalise the telecommunications sector to facilitate the business to capital, to move from a public service to lower it and not to consider it a service of general interest, has profoundly changed this sector, mainly in matters such as abandonment, deterioration, those territories that consider them not economically profitable, thus increasing the digital divide, the low quality of service, the destruction of employment and the precarious conditions of work. It is a finding that the design, direction, organization, planning of activity, telecommunications are increasingly being carried out away from Galicia and it has as a result left our country without a strategic sector in terms of decision-making and economic development and employment. A management system with decision-making centres in other territories because it leads to a lack of knowledge of Galicia's economic and even physical reality. It translates into a reduction in the amount and quality of the service, an economic and technological delay, and in the execution of a business policy of concentration and centralization of both the staff and the organisational structure. The consequence is that Galicia sees itself with a new policy of fundamental productive infrastructure, such as telecommunications, and the loss and deterioration of jobs. Large operators are engaged in a process of concentration of employment, of qualified employment, in Madrid, Bilbao or Barcelona. The data we have say that direct employment in Galicia in 2017 was 1,233 workers, 2.3% of the total state, when we assume 5.3% of GDP or 5.8% of the population. So we're talking about a deficit in employment in the telecommunications sector with regard to the consumption of these products and services in our country. This relocation of Galicia, to create it, in the case of Vodafone, essentially in Madrid, corresponds to the management, management, marketing, design and operation of networks and services, the most qualified, and higher-income jobs. The direct consequence of this situation is the impossibility for workers to develop professionally in Galicia, which obliges the emigration of the most trained staff. This, of course, has an impact on total wage income, induced employment, taxes collected and the basis for contributions. In short, what brings you is the general impoverishment of Greek society as a whole. And in parallel to this process of centralisation, large communication operators have reduced total employment in the Spanish state from 94,000 to 55,000. We paid for the impact in Galicia. And part of that job, apart from what's destined for concentration in Madrid and what's destroyed here, because it doesn't disappear, but there's a fractionation of a single productive process in several companies, which in turn subcontract services by going to the ETTs, or even to false autonomouss. That's right, always worsening wages, basis of contribution and working conditions. The job that is not centralized is transferred to these contracts, mainly to the call center sector. There's destruction of qualified employment in Galicia. Only — and still constantly destroying itself — the use of teleoperators, basic communication operators, poorly paid, precariously, under unregulated working conditions and with survival wages. As always, the beneficiaries are the big operators, with high income and reduced labour costs. In short, we could qualify it as economic rights for companies and few social obligations. [[Applause]] These companies have been socializing losses for years, but they don't do the same with the benefits, which they have. And all the burdens and repercussions pass to the working class. Both Vodafone's ERE and Bosch's ERTE are a consequence of this design that I just described. Vodafone makes the decision to move the workload. That decision affects Bosch and both of them move the consequences of those decisions to the workers, a real defeat for our country. Vodafone presented an ERE at the end of January, the third in six years, with an impact on the state level of more than 1,000 workers, around 20% of their staff, which is already in implementation. And he only undertakes not to do the next thing in two years, until the year 2021; that is, that this job destruction does not end with this ERE. The roadmap is to amortize jobs even though there is a workload. This is evidence of this, for example, that in Vodafone there are a number of extra hours. The calculation they have is that more than 40,000 — those that are registered — are recorded. And despite the infrastructure in Galicia and qualified staff, this destruction of employment and the concentration in Madrid of that qualified job is done. In Galicia there have been more than 480 people working for Vodafone — 300 in Vigo and 180 in Coruña. And now he's got 126 in Vigo and 55 in Coruña. At the end of this ERE they will become around 46 in the Coruña and 95 in Vigo. That is, 380 jobs were destroyed more than 340, and, drop the drop — I insist — a real defeat. This translates into the derivation to companies that have subcontracted, as is the case with Bosch in Vigo, the largest company in the sector with more than 2,000 hired people, 1,683 of the staff board, and around 350 through temporary work companies. A female job, more than 60%, with monthly average wages of 900 euros, many part-time contracts, a standard contract of work, which allows you to bid off by decreasing workload; that is, all the action that enables you to work reforms. 60% of Bosch's staff work for Vodafone projects, and theoretically, as a result of ERE in Vodafone for the relocation of work to Colombia, or to Egypt, because it presents an ERTE in a way, of course, without guarantees. For the staff board, it will ultimately affect 542 people. He has already fired 200 ETT people who were doing these services, and another ETT who is presenting an ERE of extinction for his staff — 76 people — because Bosch is also going to stop him from hiring. We are therefore faced with a genuine defeat for our country, with a presentation of an ERTE without guarantees in the case of Bosch. He closed the ERTE without consultation, without informing the workers of what the real situation was, without certain forecasts, without conviction, without complete and correct documentation, claiming that all the repercussions were for the workers and workers. At no time did the company try to minimize the impact of this ERE, but it has always been to a ERA of maximums with the aim of total flexibility and that workers and workers are at their disposal continuously. That is why we are bringing this initiative here today, and what we are essentially asking is that the Board is involved, which, as a labour authority, acts — because, with the level of irregularities presented, this ERA had to be already paralyzed by the labour authority — to maintain an active position of mediation, because the Board has resources, it has instruments to act, both in the case of the Bosch ERA and the Vodafone ERA, and to try to make them as soon as possible adjusted as possible. We also ask that, both in Vodafone and in Bosch, we guarantee the attention in Greek, that the right of the Greeks and the Greeks to be cared for in our language by the companies that provide services here, the attention of the customers from Galicia to Galicia, respecting the linguistic rights of the Greeks and the Greeks, because that is a way of ensuring the maintenance of employment. We demand that the services and subsidies that the Board performs with telecommunications companies be conditioned, because for example in the case of Bosch...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u159	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u160	...—Junta is Bosch's client—there's a high-speed problem of 3X, and with an ongoing study, where Junta will invest resources. And, of course, those issues must be taken into account. The Union must put pressure on it so that employment cannot be destroyed when there is a contract with these companies — finished, president. And we demand that we present in the current session a study of what the situation in the sector is, because of course we cannot continue to destroy jobs and companies would be free of charge. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u161	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Otero Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u162	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. The Socialist Group also wishes to greet the legal representatives of the workers of the centre of Bosch in Vigo, as well as those of Vodafone in the centres of Coruña and Vigo, and to convey all our support to them in those painful ERE and ERTE processes that they are suffering. [[Applause]] Well, on February 22nd this same year, the final record of the ERE negotiation period agreement was signed which affected the work centres Vodafone has in Vigo and Coruña. And at the end of that February, the Bosch temporary employment regulation file was started in Vigo; ERTE that affects more than 500 workers and that, depending on the service they work in or on the tasks they perform, the suspension will go from fifteen days to two months. And it must be borne in mind that 200 workers from temporary work companies have already been fired. Bosch currently has several projects signed with Vodafone, and the future is largely conditioned by the moment he crosses Vodafone, without exhausting other projects like Orange or Repsol, which also assume an important workload for Bosch in Vigo. Despite this burden of work, the company refused to restore workers affected by ERTE to other departments. We're canceling contracts and hiring people from outside for the company's refusal to relocate workers affected by ERTE. We're talking about Vigo's second company, which generates more jobs after PSA, which has a ERTE that lasts until July 31st this year, in a fairly precarious sector with practically many part-time contracts and low wages; a company that shows no negotiating will and which, under current conditions, would entail a low salary for workers of EUR 686 per month. Do you think, gentlemen, that with this salary that doesn't even reach the minimum inter-professional wage, you can live a worker and keep your family? [[Applause]] It must be remembered, however, that Vodafone has hired Bosch to provide teleoperators for technical assistance, the customer discharge process and the processing of claims filed in public consumer agencies. Vodafone performs layoffs to relocate work to countries such as Egypt or Colombia. But it's just that this Vodafone ERE continues to charge victims outside Vodafone itself, as is the case with this ERTE we're analyzing. Fighting against Vodafone's ERE was not only fighting and defending Vodafone's jobs, but saving many more jobs, as we're now seeing. It was to protect the collective rights of the sector; hence, the rights of other companies, other workers, other telecommunications companies. And what did the Galician Union do to paralyze or minimize Vodafone's ERE? Did you put any measure yourself or through the Galego Labour Relations Council? No, no, no, no. He was, as always, looking forward and with his arms crossed, hoping that the problems would be solved by himself. [[Applause]] But what's most bloody is that you didn't make the Board of Galicia use of your position as a client of the Vodafone company to stop or minimize that Vodafone ERE. It is worth recalling that the Galician Board extended the contract of the telecommunications service until February 2021 in June 2018, and it was the adjudicator of the mobile telephony service to operator Vodafone. In addition, the company Vodafone, together with Orange and Telephonic, signed a collaboration agreement with Antega and the public operator Retegal on 6 November 2018 with the commitment of the three telecommunications operators to develop a minimum of six prototypes based on 5G technology between 2019 and 2020. The launch of this project is the first of Plan 5G's measures to position Galicia as the preferred territory in piloting innovative solutions in this matter, according to the words of the Galician Union itself. And I repeat that the Galician Board, as a Vodafone client, has done nothing to prevent or minimize the damage to that employment regulation file in Bosch. So what we ask the Galician Council to do is to speed up the Bosch conflict, which is to keep this company's activity within the legal framework, to use all legal instruments at its disposal and to activate them immediately. Stop maintaining an immobilist, static attitude, which is what's defining the attitude of the Galician Union in recent years in terms of employment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u163	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u164	...I'm going to finish, Mr. President—and start doing what you're supposed to be doing a government, which is to rule and defend the workers' rights. That is why we are going to vote affirmatively on the proposal put forward by the BNG today. And, taking advantage of my companion's words, don't be like Alice's rabbit in the country of wonders and don't be late again. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u165	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u166	Thank you. We also want to greet the workers who accompany us today, and also, of course, all those who are affected by the Vodafone ERE and those who are on strike today in Bosch, in Vigo, because of the unfair situation they are living. And that is why, of course, we are going to vote in favour of this non-law proposal — in fact, it is very similar to one that we have just discussed and presented to the Industry Committee this week — because we believe that we are facing a sector of great importance to our country. More than 10,000 people work in telemarketing in Galicia, and in addition, this particular company, Bosch, is the second largest company in the city of Vigo, more than 1,600 workers and workers. We believe that we are facing a conflict where the Galician Union is not taking the necessary measures. Clearly, the company has no negotiating will, it has already been mentioned here. All there is is is an impossive attitude. But that's why we insist so much that the Galician Union has to mediate in a clear way, and it cannot continue, as it has so far, to face a conflict as important as what we have to face. We're talking about a sector that's going through precariously, with low wages. Most staff don't even work 30 hours, most work 25 or 20 hours, or even less, with an average salary of 600 or 700 euros. We can imagine, with these wages, how it would affect even less. We're talking about an area where rotational rates are very high, with a very imposing psychological workload, with high-intensity schedules, with high temporality rates. And all of this — something that is, as I say, common to the entire telemarketing sector — is added in this company in particular to the application of a temporary employment regulation file that would affect 600 people, after firing, as already mentioned, 200 contractors through ETT. We, as already mentioned, believe that this ERTE is unjustified. There's no reason, there's alternatives, and Junta has to take clear measures, it has to push the company. Because there's a lot of options that can take forward. For example, it is not acceptable for some workers not to return to other departments, even though they recognize their own company that needs more staff in other departments and that everything seems to indicate that they will end up hiring outside, with only intention of precaution even more. And we think this is symptomatic that companies think they're impunity, that they think they can do what they want. Because, obviously, we've had decades of policies where the only one who defended himself was always the great multinationals, and never the workers and the workers. As I said, this week an initiative has been adopted that contains some important points, but we have to go back to something: they always systematically veto one of the points that in our opinion is most relevant, which is the derogation from labour reforms. And we always insist on the same: if you don't get rid of work reforms, everything you can say here will be a lie, because you won't be able to apply it, and then you'll be stuck in legislation. But they have the option of derogating from work reforms. They decided to take them forward. Well, now they have the option to derogate them. Because if I don't, as I say, they can say what they want. They may say they defend employment, but it'll actually be all a lie. We have also talked here — and we insist very much — about the problem of the relocation of services that many companies are doing. In fact, one of the fundamental problems with Vodafone is this. And there are steps that can be taken. You can legislate to avoid relocation, you can avoid ensuring attention in Galicia, you can also avoid and do not allow the transfer of personal data to countries outside the European Union. But obviously, if there is political will, if you want to do something, of course, there are alternatives to avoid relocation. We're talking about companies, many, who receive grants and also have contracts with the public administration. What can't be, is that we gave public money to the company without guaranteeing a minimum of quality employment and no consideration whatsoever. It can't be that large multinationals always socialize losses with workers and workers but never benefits, because there's also the main problem. These companies are benefiting year after year. How is it possible that, having benefits, they are now more precarious every day and wanting to stop workers and workers? Even today we said that Bosch's workers were on the streets, the government has to listen to them, it can't continue to do as it doesn't go with him. They have to correct the path of the last few years, which is a path that destroys jobs and leads to the worst possible quality. We believe that the balance of industrial policies in recent years is bad; there is no industrial planning in our country. And today we're talking about a particular company, but it's a reality that's common to the whole sector. The situation of exploitation living is common. We must end the model that only exploits, that has wages of misery, that gives no kind of stability.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u167	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u168	That's why we want these jobs to be defended, but we also want the conditions of the whole sector to be improved. In this company, of course, we have to paralyze this ERA, but we also have to look at the medium and long term and create quality jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u169	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quinteiro. Mr Rodríguez Pérez speaks for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. President. From the Popular Parliamentary Group we also want to greet the union representatives of the workers of Bosch and Vodafone present in this debate and to express our support from the People's Group too, and to make it clear that if a group and a party can help them get out of this situation, it will be the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u171	Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence!, here you have listened to everyone with respect, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u172	Mrs. Prado Cores, you are presenting this PNL concerning the ERE of the Telemarketing company Bosch, Vigo, a PNL similar to the one we approved this same week of En Marea, with which the People's Party reached a consensus and voted by points on March 21st. We agreed that this is a very important sector for Galician business fabric and the province of Pontevedra, and especially for Vigo and its area of influence. Bosch Service, Vigo, has a staff of 1,683 workers. Above all, it must be noted that there is an important presence of women, and also that they are jobs through the ETTs. The employment regulation file is of a temporary nature, it's for 540 workers, who will be in force until the next July 31st. Vodafone, the main customer, is a company that is negotiating a national record of a thousand jobs across Spain. Since December, it supports a major downgrading of work. Orange and Repsol also carry work load for Vigo. At Vigo's call center, Vodafone has the responsibility for technical support, administrative provision and claims. Bosch went from 50 workers in 2003 to more than 2,000 in Vigo's work centers. After Citroën, El Corte Inglés and Povervisa, it's a great company in Vigo. You, ladies and gentlemen of the BNG — and of the left in general — don't mind what you're told, the answers of the counsellor, of the president in this Parliament, the clarifications, the data, the objectives, the strategies, the plans... as it could not be otherwise... — I would ask silence, please, that I did not interrupt anyone—the Government of Galicia has been in constant contact with the company committee and with the company itself. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Together, the workers and workers of the company are available to listen to their demands. The Self-Government, as a labour authority, and the Labour Inspectorate, in accordance with their respective powers, has followed the procedure of the ERE, ensuring that legal formalities have been complied with. And once the company has approved the ERTE, it will follow up the employment regulation to ensure its compliance and to preserve workers' rights in accordance with the applicable legality. As always an ERTE is formalized, it does not necessarily mean that it is executed, for example, what you approved last year PSA-Citroën of 50 days and fortunately did not use any. In any case, in collaboration with the Labour Inspectorate, we will act to ensure that the procedures of the procedure are carried out in compliance with the legality. This parliamentary group is aware of its concern — which is also ours —. From the Galician Summit and, of course, from this parliamentary group, we are going to follow up with all the agents of the Italian production fabric, as well as with the ICTs, as we have always done, in the search for the best labour market for Galicia and with quality jobs. So he transferred it to Junta to the company committee, and under this premise we will continue to act. The Union will be with the workers and the workers. Being by the workers' side isn't five minutes in front of a sign and then I've seen you, in my mind. They'll also try to blame Junta. And, of course, the fault — according to you — will be Feijóo. And, with all due respect, ladies and gentlemen, in Galicia we have clear where we are. We have a clear objective, which is creation and not destruction of employment. The figures are the highest in the last five years. The bet is clear and decided by the future, the Galician society can be calm in general and, in particular, in the ICT sector. We have a stable government, strong and capable of helping the economy with the 2019 budgets — by the way, you refused —. Ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the opposition in its concern for employment and industrial fabric in Galicia. Let's give it to her if they care about all the work. We don't think there's any industry at first and second. What are you going to say now with the closure of Ence? That no one can be above the law. We agree. They'll be happy, you son of a bitch!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u173	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u174	I'm gonna finish it, president. For you, by blaming the PP, it's all settled. We will continue to work for and for all workers. We don't want, gentlemen, no worker to be out of work, we don't want him to close Ferroatlantic, we don't want to close Ence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u175	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u176	...—Finished—we don't want to close Elnosa. And, of course, and from here the commitment of the Galician Union and this parliamentary group...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u177	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u178	...we don't want Bosch locked up in Vigo. And we want to vote on point 2 — President, I want to clarify it — which is "to maintain an active position of mediation between Bosch's leadership and the workers affected to minimize the effects of the ERA." Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez. The author group of the non-law proposal is in turn. You have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u180	I want to begin by thanking the PSOE and En Marea for the support expressed in this initiative that BNG brings here today and to regret that the People's Party wants to be well without spending anything. Because it's good to vote on having an active mediation position when reality is that they're not doing it. And the reality is that we are already facing the consolidation of both the ERE and the ERA. It's very good to say it's a very important sector, but on the side of both the Galician and the People's Party, of course, they don't apply to defend it. And, look at a little thing, it's not just about getting off the job, it's about companies moving the job. That's the point. And what we ask them to do is act so they don't move that job. They relocate it to countries with no labour rights or trade union guarantees. And to you, in front of that, it seems to you that nothing happens. The MP of the People's Party said to make an ERTE doesn't mean it's going to be executed. But they're already running it! In the case of Bosch, since February 22, and in the case of Vodafone is already running. But what are you talking about here, MP of the People's Party? I regret that, once again, they are unable to stand on the side of the workers. The situation of the sector in Galicia, its brutal impact, is a consequence of the lack of political weight that our country has and the lack of political weight that the Government of the United States has. Because if you're moving to work and concentrating in other territories, it'll be for something. Businesses can't do what they want, where they want and where they want it, without social and labor consequences and without the Union doing absolutely nothing. They can't do it, and above all with the convolence and complicity of governments. Because we've asked for an implication from the Galician Union, and the Galician Union has done nothing to date. Today, for the first time, the General Secretary of the Labour Council called the Bosch Business Committee to sit down and talk. Today, when they've been applying an ERTE for more than a month. And in the case of Vodafone, of course, we have no information that he did anything at all. With which it would be good if, apart from preaching, they had done something else. Of course, at the BNG we believe that Vodafone can no longer destroy jobs in Galicia when it has turnover and projects funded from public funds in Galicia. You can't afford Bosch to take advantage of this ERTE to further prevent the work situation of the staff board and have it available without guarantees, which is what you are doing, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. In a sector with an absolute model of precariousness, rotation, exploitation, temporality, abusive shifts, pressure and stress, we cannot afford to continue to tighten up this sector. And Junta has to get involved because she has instruments, she has legal instruments, and she has political instruments. And you have the instrument, in the case of Vodafone, of being a client, of having a project to deploy high speed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u181	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u182	...in which Vodafone is involved. And, of course, what we demand with this initiative is that the Board should take responsibility, that it should stand up and not let, once again, the workers and the workers be thrown out. What we're trying to do is there's someone on the wheel of the People's Party, the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u183	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u184	...that there is someone on the wheel and that he exercises as a government and not as a commenter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u185	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u186	Because being a government of a nation, of a country, like Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u187	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u188	...it can't be just a commenter without acting when there's problems.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u189	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u190	And in this case, there's a lot of problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u191	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next initiative. Non-legislative proposal by the G.P. of En Marea, on the initiative of Mr Francisco Casal Vidal and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece and the management to be carried out before the Central Government in connection with the voluntary tender of creditors with a proposal to wind up the police factory in Narón
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u192	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u193	To formulate the proposal not of law, Mr. Casal Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u194	Good morning. Thank you very much. We've started this whole thing in the past. Our spokesman explicitly asked Mr. President of Galicia for the industrial situation in general and, in particular, for the affair of the Bosch ERTE and the ERE of extinction — which was at that time — of Poligal. And Mr. Feijóo — in addition to that prevailing attitude and undervalued the questions of our spokesman — said explicitly, "Don't ask me for constancy with Poligal, a company that has never asked for or obtained help from the Galician Council." That's what he explicitly said. Well, let's go to the tests, you can consult — I'm sure you've consulted him since that day. The accounts recorded by the 2017 Polygal Company in the Commercial Register clearly state in their balance sheet and memory that have an immobilised, still without amortizing, at that time, of EUR 464,654 from a capital subsidy from the Galician Union — 44,000 in 2017 —.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u195	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u196	Yeah, yeah, look, look at the Mercantile Register. But the year before, of course, was 483,000. And they keep pulling back, the total subsidy was much higher. In other words, in summary, once again Mr. Feijóo lied to Parliament once again, because he said taxively, "He never gave subsidies to this company in Galicia." There are other elements, in addition, to have a strong attitude towards the company. In 2012, the company set up another ERE and reached an agreement signed by the current Poligal deputy councillor, so the workers admitted a reduction in their workforce of 35 jobs — which they went to the streets — and, in return, the company committed an investment of six million euros, to develop in three years, at the Poligal factory in Narón. How much of the six million euros committed to a Social Court and signed for the time being and currently a police deputy adviser? Zero euros. A glaring breach of a sentence that the workers brought to the High Court of Galicia, and there's already a firm judgment that Poligal has to make that investment. We think they are sufficient elements: on the one hand, the Galician Council has subsidized this company; on the other hand, the company is failing to comply with firm judicial judgments. We think the government has enough elements to have an attitude that goes beyond what it's having right now. On the other hand, the status of Poligal is truly surprising, because it is the same thing that is happening with Ferroatlantics, Bosch in Vigo and many other companies. It's a completely solvent company, where the entire R & D+i of the entire group of companies is developed, and then it carries these patents to manufacture on plants in Poland and Portugal. Because just when the company didn't develop those investments to those who were obliged on the Narón plant, instead, it invested forty million in Poland and fifteen million in Portugal; and now it announces a new investment of fifteen million in Portugal. So what's the reality? There is, of course, the market; in fact, the marketer that sells all the products that are produced in Narón, Portugal and Poland is also there in Narón. But what's the matter? This marketer is the only customer in the factories: pick up all the production and sell it to its customers. What's wrong? That prevents the factories from having a truly explicit account of what their results are, and the marketer shares the costs as well as it seems to you among the three factories. What's the point of Naron's having bad results? For they charge costs that do not belong to you, for example, 100 percent of R & D+i costs, which then, on the other hand, are taken advantage of by the whole group; or the whole business management and management. All the expenses that are in your accounts and should be shared among all the accounts of the factories that the company currently owns. Later: Polygal Narón produces 80 percent of the special plastics that make Polygal Group, and these plastics have a huge market. The company transferred to its customers who were quiet, that there would be no waste, that it would still be able to serve these special plastics. If these special plastics are only produced in Polygal Narón, it means that they now intend to increase investments in Poland and Portugal to take these productions there, and all this from the benefits and R & D developed in Naron. We think they're enough elements for the government to have a much more powerful attitude with the company. A company that violates judicial judgments, which has grants from the Galician Union and, without being fully amortised, intends to close the company. And what triggers the Galician Xunta is to hire a consultant who -- I don't know if they've noticed -- is just the consultant who informed Poligal about how to relocate the company to Portugal. We don't think it's the most suitable consultant; maybe it is, but it doesn't. That the consultant who did the job so that the company had taken the factory to Portugal is what now puts solutions for Poligal to stay in Narón... That is why we think — and it is the proposal we put forward today at plenary session — that the attitude of the Galician Union must be much more powerful; that is, on the one hand, because a government does have to do, especially in the face of a company that is facing a number of quite important failures. Then make it clear that if they relocate, they will be required to return that subsidy. Then, modify all calls for grants, because the company remembers that the aid is non-reintegrable. We don't know this; we're going to have to look for the initial call, which we think is seven or eight years ago, to see if this is so, but we imagine something going on in the Commercial Register will be true. That's why it's essential that, as the Ministry of Industry has done with the help of interruptability, the Galician board does the same and that all such aid has a clear clause in the maintenance of production and employment, which is not done. In other words, the People's Group only demands the Government of the Socialist Party, but here they don't think it's necessary to put those clauses too. Then, of course, legally supports the workers to demand the company to comply with the court order and that it be clear that you have to invest the six million euros in the police factory. Because the Polygal factory — I say — is the most technologically developed, but with these six million could be world leader, especially in special plastics, which have no overcapacity, which is what the company argues. There is overcapacity, above all, in polyethylene and in the most basic uses of bags, etc., because it has lowered the consumption of this type of plastic. But, on the other hand, in special plastics, especially for drugs and food products, which require much stricter conditioning, there is no overproduction, but quite the opposite. The other day, the adviser did not want to answer any of the questions we asked him, so we register the non-law proposal, so that all groups have to explain what attitude they will have in this truly surprising conflict and, above all, to make clear the attitude of the People's Group, which supports the Government, and the Government itself, of what the attitude will be from now on. We have a little more time, because the Barcelona Mercantil Court, in view of the evidence of all this that we are commenting on, has ruled that the company's claim for liquidation is not adjusted to the law, and it rejects it completely. If you approved the start of the creditors' contest, but you know that the creditors' contest that presented the company was with an immediate liquidation proposal and immediate extinction ERE, and all that the Mercantil's ruling refused. Now, there's a competitive process and there's a responsible one... so the Galician Council has to intervene in this process and it has to make it clear that, as the Mercantile Court has already done, there are no objective conditions and that the Government will do everything possible to ensure that the company meets its commitments. And, above all, a world-leading company in the production of special plastics cannot be lost, and much less in the district of Ferrol; that's where our proposal goes. We imagine that all groups in the House will agree that there must be strong, constant and sound things to be done so that Poligal does not close, as the Mercantile Court is already moving forward. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Casal. The Socialists' Parliamentary Group has the floor to Mrs Otero Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u198	Thank you, President. Good morning again. Just a point, because this Socialist Group was quite concerned about the intervention of the PP spokesman in the previous proposal, which came to corroborate what we denounced: that the Board did nothing to prevent or minimize the ERE and the ERTE both from Bosch and Vodafone. Because he literally said that the Galician Union would monitor and control that these ERE and ERTE were respected; therefore, a passive position of arms crossed before the ERE and the ERTE of Bosch and Vodafone, which was what the Socialist Party denounced. Well, we've changed from PNL, but we haven't changed our problem; we've continued to talk about the decline in the industrial fabric of our autonomous community and the threat of closure and loss of many of the jobs of a new company like Poligal. Then comes the spokesperson of the People's Party, with that sort of speech that he has for all the speeches—as is said of Ferroatlantics, that of Alcoa, that of Polygal today—, saying that it is the fault of Pedro Sánchez, who will do good Mr. Zapatero, that if Falcon, that is the "dieselazo", etc. Listening to the speeches of the Members of the People's Party lately, we could think that the labour problems for the workers and workers in Galicia began in June 2018 and that until that date there was a social peace in the working world here in Galicia. But it's been rare for years now that in the streets of our people and our cities, there has been some protest from workers in the many industries in the productive sector or service companies, despite the fact that the Galician Union, which is close to the reality of the working class, raises positive figures of employment and economic growth. I would like to remind the Members of the People's Party that, before Mr Sánchez's arrival in Moncloa, many labour problems existed in Galicia. Just one data: in 2017, when I was ruling here in Galicia Mr. Feijóo and in Madrid Mr. Rajoy, Galicia was the second autonomous community that lost more days of work by strike; more than 159,500 work days lost by labor conflicts were recorded, an average of 400 and seven a day. I want to remind you, among other things, of the mobilizations of this year of employees of the metal of the Crown, of the transport of passengers, of the traffic examiners, of the workers of the ports of Greece and of the workers of Ferroatlantica and Alcoa, also in 2017. Therefore, you — you are — have been ruling for ten years in the Galician Union, and seven and a half years that have been ruling in Madrid; it is time to act and not keep that position vigilant. Well, now they've changed their position, because at least they're now asking the Government of the State for what they haven't been demanding for seven and a half years. We agree with Mr. Casal's statement in his proposal, and from here on, all our support for the police workers, who are going through a troubled and worrying situation, of course. On the same day as the final record of the Vodafone consultation agreement period was signed, paradoxically on that same day, the Police Delegate Counsellor informed the Business Committee that he had just applied for the voluntary tender of creditors with a proposal to wind up the police factory in Narón. In the same month, for Galician Union three problems: Bosch, Vodafone and Poligal. As was said here, the contest was accepted by the Barcelona Mercantile Court, not the liquidation; but the company continues and persists with its intention to liquidate and, although it did not present it, announced that it would present an extinct ERE. We believe that the Council of Galicia must exist and mediate in this conflict, put in force measures and leave that vigilant stance which it often adopts — as it has already been recognised in this chamber — to see if the problems are solved alone. The company is not clear to the workers and does not provide them with all the documentation to assess the actual situation of the Poligal company. We have to make it clear that a company which initiates an employment regulation file, if it is part of a group of companies — as is the case — with the obligation to draw up consolidated accounts, must accompany the annual accounts to the consolidated management report of the duly audited dominant society, if that is the case. In this negotiation, it is essential to refer to the business group, which has profits and increases in sales, but this information is not transferred to the workers. We have three amendments: two amendments and one deletion. We call for the abolition of point 7 because, if we consider that a competitive strategy should be put in place in markets and products not only on the basis of cost reduction, we do not believe that relocation can be restricted or prohibited by law, although the requirement of stay on the territory for some time could be conditional upon receiving aid. And we tabled an amendment to point 3, because we understand that if the Board has already appointed a consultant to assess the situation of the company, we have to take advantage of this and we have to transfer it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u199	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u200	...of its outcome — and final, Mr President — and an amendment to paragraph 4, for the purpose of conducting an audit by the Galician Board on the aid received by the company, as well as the destination and effect thereof. If our amendments are not accepted, we shall request the vote by points to vote on this last item 7 separately. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u201	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. That the one in Poligal is an undercover relocation is already, at this point, an indisputable reality. The planned operation with enough time and tomorrow begins with a clear lack of investment in the Naron factory for some time now. The latest known ones are 2012, when a cogeneration plant is installed, and in 2013 it starts a new registrant line. After this, the company begins its advances: an ERE six years ago and the beginning of the theater that leads us to the current closure. They set up a play with a repeated and known script. In 2016 they install a new hybrid metallizer at the Portugal factory and in 2017 they start a fourth line of production at the Polish factory. In Narón, not one more penny. The work represented by the Directorate of Alcoa had the same plot. All of this used with the declarations of always to give you a trusted environment: this plant is the best in the group, the most versatile and does not conflict with any of the other plants in the group. And, for no doubt, they made it like they were analyzing some investment scenarios to improve, even more so, the productivity and efficiency of the installations in the ferrola comarca. And of course, as PP's political and economic experts walk the other way, and Mr. Conde is in his castle of obsession with the legality he himself manufactures, no one here suspected anything. It was sung, but there was no suspicion; as in the crisis: all in the versa. And you know, they abandon Naron to their luck, without investment. With the inside that Poligal has in the group of companies, charging profits to one side and losses to another as if they were independent, always following the marked strategy of relocation — of course — the factory of Narón appears with millionaire losses while the others give benefits; justification enough to make the bags and leave. And what role does the Government of the People’s Party play in all this game? For none, literally nothing; it's gone. On February 22 this year, Poligal announces an ERE by surprise, and Mr. Count, with the speed that characterizes it in these matters, does not take more than a month to convene the meeting table between the parties concerned to negotiate and discuss the matter. The table must have its difficulty, the tables should not be alcoholic, not; it will be at the center of the country's oak and, as you know, it takes its time to make it. A month is not so much; total, it's only the future of a hundred and fourteen workers, well they can wait. On the other hand, Mr. Feshoo kept a pulse with the opposition of those who so well were given to him, as today, declaring a new lie impertinently: "Polygal received no help from the board." Yeah, well... half a kilogram of now, that is, half a million euros in three lines of help. Of course, the president's seriously didn't lie when he said it was false that his government gave him a euro; he didn't lie, no; it wasn't a euro, no; it was some more. Of course, he has become so fond of lies that, when he tells a truth here, if he makes it hard for us to believe him. And so we're going, trying to see if we can, with the invaluable help of the People's Party, make our country a society of services, quiet, old and hopeless. We're going the right way for now. The echoes of the last protest of a relocation are still not extinguished in the street and other protests are already beginning. Now no one remembers that there has been, long, long time ago, a president in Madrid who cared for Mr. Rajoy's name and who may have had nothing to do with industrial policy in Galicia. And Mr. Conde, you know: round, disc, with strict compliance with the law, by the opposition parties. Now they have the one who blames them and they suffer amnesia. Meanwhile, in the streets workers and workers of one ERE and ERTE defend the bread of their children with nails and teeth with the vague hope that the People's Party in the Government will have a bit of a soul and put itself at once on their side. It's useless: with both trickery and corruption, they don't have soul. They only have laws and more laws to justify their apathy, laws and more laws to justify restlessness and impatience in the face of the problems of our industrial fabric, hoping that the market, the running of time and the owners of the capital will impose their mandate. You two calm down! It's okay here! Galicia is being dismantled at the very best of its industry and nothing happens. There are voices in the street, there is life, there is courage to tell them that they are representatives of that policy that governs for the powerful, that inclines the deer in front of their wishes; that they shut up cowardly because they have no solutions to our problems. But the Government uses turtle policy. The poet of Cambados said, "Poor of us! - Poor two poor without bread! - God take us by his hand!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u203	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u204	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Rivas, after listening to yourself what you just said, you have to think about why no one votes them; that's what you should think. Probably because his speech is a true fallacy, which is very good for making songs, but the reality of the street is another very different. In this plenary room, Mr. Casal, you have three ferrolans: in the front row, José Manuel Rey; in the presidency, Diego Calvo, and this deputy who speaks to them. The three, of Ferrol; the three, children of the naval conversion of the eighty-ninth and ninety. The three of us went along with our parents and our uncles to many demonstrations in the district of Ferrolterra criticizing this conversion, the so-called naval reconversion, because we were actually facing the dismantling of the naval industry, the naval sector, the military and also the civilian in Astano, Fene. [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Poligal was one of the few industries installed, in that so-called conversion, in the district of Ferrolterra, in the colony of Ghana. So those of us here, the three Members of Ferrol — from Ferrol, not from Pontevedra; from Ferrol — are well aware of the problem of Poligal, and therefore we are here defending Ferrol, our region. Because we decided to get into politics precisely for that: not to resign ourselves to the discourse of the Socialist Party so shared by you, that speech that said Ferrol had no future. That's why we're here and not in Pontevedra; here, defending Poligal, urging our government to put solutions. [[Applause]] Look, do you know who's primarily responsible for the police situation? The company. I know you're coming here to see if you can make the Government of the Union responsible, because you're always in the same way: looking for a political cut instead of solving people's problems. [[Murmurs.]] But do you think people don't realize that? You have to know that this group and the government that we support are the only ones we've done something for the police workers; you're the only one they've done is try to pull political cuts, as always. [[Murmurs.]] They come here to break the unity of that parliament. We have presented and discussed an initiative on Poligal, and there is an agreement last week in the 6th Commission — in the Committee on Industry — that is an agreement that requires us to seek solutions together. You come here, once again, to break that unity and unanimity and seek permanently cut political. How do they do it? I'm lying. This government hasn't paid any help to Poligal, no! Mr. Villares lied — it is customary — you lied again today and, in passing, that of the Block; no help. Look, the half million in 2017's annual accounts -- you understand, because you're talking about hearing permanently -- these five hundred thousand euros in 2017's annual accounts are an amount that was left to the company pending to amortize aid granted in the 1990s — ninety! — by the Government of Felipe González and the Government of Manuel Fraga. [[Balbordo.]] And, therefore, this Government of Galicia — we've been managing ten years — has not given a single help to the police. Those who were addicted from the Government of Spain to the so-called declining industrialization zone. So why do you lie, why do you have the need to lie? Look, the other day the police workers concentrated in Fene at the gates of a folk party rally. Do you know what President Feijóo did? Do you know what we did to the vice president of Parliament and myself? We went to talk to them. The next day, we met that working group, which seems to have done nothing. Hey! Like the Galician Union didn't do anything? Here, the Galician Union commissioned a specialist company, which is best known in the sector, a sales book to find a buyer. Those who didn't do anything were you and your party. But why are they taking our hair? Why do you want to permanently instrument everything for your party? That it's not even even broken, that it's now three — well, two parties and a neighboring association, that Anova no longer presents the elections. Why are they taking our hair? [[Applause]] Mr. Casal, look, you need courage to talk to that enough you talk about the issues you bring in your hand. It takes courage to use the language you are using when editing your initiatives. You need courage, and you have the biography that you have as an entrepreneur — who took your company to the creditors contest — to demand other companies that return to you, I don't know what you're helping. But do you think you can tell us this? I know your group is getting smaller, but don't you have a partner who can defend this? Don't take our hair off, Mr. Casal. You are the McGyver of the Galician industry: come here with the chicle to find solutions that you didn't even have for your own company. But what lessons do you want to give us? [[Applause]] You, indeed, know a lot about lending, liquidation and not returning money to the public administration. And then he comes here, he says what he says is so pancho. I know he'll tell me: whenever he wants, I'll explain. Then give them to me!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u205	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u206	This is the moment, take advantage of it and give it the explanations, because he always says he'll explain and never explain anything. Mr. Casal, I respect the police workers, I respect the one hundred and eight families who are concerned about their future. Because the situation is difficult, huh? Accreditors contest: a contest administrator has been appointed who has to search for solutions, and the Galician Board has already commissioned a sales book to search for a possible buyer. It's not easy, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u207	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u208	It's not easy. Together is working, and you? You come here to demagogy and ask for the vote for Yolanda Díaz for Pontevedra.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u209	Thank you. Your time is up. All said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u210	Thank you. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Casal. How many times have I played the bell? Does anyone know how many times I've played the bell? I don't remember. I just don't know how many times I've played the bell, if one or two. I'm asking. Nobody knows? I woke up now. Two must have been. Well, I'll play again, the last one. That's it. That's how we fix it. Whenever you want, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u211	It's past yesterday, and today it repeats itself: the lords of the People's Party, when they have no arguments, turn to defamation, directly; defamation. Yeah, yeah; don't worry I'll have plenty of time to explain it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u212	Silence! Peace, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u213	I've explained it, but you don't want to listen. When Mr. Inda got that news, that fallacy against my person, I clearly explained it to the media. [[Murmurs.]] What do you mean, no? [[Mr. Novoa Iglesias: No!]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u214	Quiet, Mrs. Novoa. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u215	What do you mean, no? I've explained it clearly: I don't owe anything to anyone on the board of Galicia, I owe nothing; my company — which wasn't mine, I had eight percent — owe nothing to the board of Galicia or to any one... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u216	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u217	What happened was that the Igape invested in the company I was running; he invested, he was a shareholder, which is a little different from lending. The company proposed in 2007 that Igape buy those shares and Igape said no, because the company was going like a motorcycle. And it's true: in 2012, in the middle of a crisis and because of circumstances that I didn't want to make public, a general director of the Igape who was a killer of the Galician companies — and, someday, when I leave politics in a few years' time, I'll explain it with hair and signals — took the company to break. [[An honourable Member: No, now!]] And that's also in the creditors' contest file. They read what the judge said and what the rest of the company's partners say — very important partners, by the way — that an unintended attitude of one of the partners actually led the company to break up. Yes, yes; that's in the sentence. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u218	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u219	A judgment that explicitly states that the management of the company did everything right and did everything possible to save a situation of gross defaults, and that one of the partners acted disloyally with the rest of the property. They're investigating what that partner was. So first, credit, nothing; investment as shareholder. Second, he was asked to buy it when the company went well and said no; instead, when the company was bad it was when they wanted to sell. Igape's support for the Greek companies! And I'll leave it there. I mean, defamation, of course. And if you want more comments, I'll tell you at another time. I'll tell you later! [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Mr President, as if you had made me an explicit defamation, I ask for a little more time to discuss the matter now. So they stop defaming. Yesterday Mrs. Novoa, as she had no arguments... defamation, defamation. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u220	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u221	Obviously, the company is the one who is to blame — obviously! — as the company Isowat Made was to blame as well. We were thinking of separating Made from Isowat, because Isowat was the queen of the crown, it was the easy company to find a solution, and Made, instead, was a much less technologically developed company. Well, then the Autonomous Government of Castile and León has already sought a solution for Made. But the German Government, like with Poligal, continues to talk about studies and more studies. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And we don't leave the Ministry of Industry outside. Today there's a meeting with the Ministry of Industry, and, with the conclusions that come out of that meeting, we will also demand things from the Ministry of Industry. But the Galician Union already had to be involved in the matter in a more important way. [[The President said words that were not understood.]] The Socialist Party tells us that we refer to consulting: no, because consulting is going to make a technical report, and here we have to make a technical report and an economic report, because we fear there will be accounting engineering within the accounts of Poligal Narón. So we will accept the amendment of the Socialist Party as an addition, not a replacement. Because Junta also has to have accounting information. Then you say and insist that they didn't... of course you gave it to him! But you're explicitly in the accounts!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u222	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u223	No, no, and he's... but I'll tell him... [[Mr. Tellado pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u224	Silence! Mr. Tellado, be quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u225	But, Mr. Tellado, loan... loan me! [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u226	Mr. Tellado, I call you in order for the first time. Quiet. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please! [[Balbordo.]] Finish it, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u227	As you knew...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u228	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u229	Well, when they're done, I'll carry on. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Pause.]] And I've been talking about Polygal for two or three minutes. Yes, man! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I spoke clearly: responsibility of the company, inaction of the Galician board, as there are solutions for Made and not for Isowat. The same thing that's going on in... We ask that the report in charge of this consulting, rather than being a technical one, be also economical; quite explicitly it remains in the proposal. And then I'll make it easier for you to get it: IG100 credit from Igape amounting to €552,099 on a financial amount of 1,945,219. That's what Igape approved, that's what the company did as an investment and is amortizing. Check it out. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Indeed, there are 2007 Reindus grants, but that credit is explicit... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u230	Quiet. Mr. Tellado, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u231	I just can't end up like that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u232	You're done, please. Mr. Tellado, I'm going to have to call him back to order. Quiet. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u233	Mr. Tellado says the Commercial Registry... [[Balbordo.]] They just don't let me finish!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u234	The debate is being moderated by me for now. We'll see in the future, but for now, I'm moderate. [[Murmurs.]] And I know what I'm doing, because there was an allusion, and this gentleman has the right to respond to an allusion which has been made; and now he has his time to pronounce on this matter. This is the right thing to do. Things in their place. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u235	Mr. Tellado says the Mercantil Register is an unreliable source; we'll leave it there.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u236	Finish, please, Mr. Casal. It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u237	Then, at the point that the Socialist Party demands, we will accept the vote by points, but we do not ask to prohibit relocations, but rather to make laws difficult and limited. And this is authorized by the European Union: there are very powerful laws in Italy and very powerful laws in France.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u238	Thank you, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u239	And then — 10 seconds alone, by allusion — in short, Mr. Tellado...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u240	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u241	But they didn't want explanations? To sum up, Mr. Tellado: I, with thirty-three years of age and two children, industrial engineer from Fenosa, the youngest engineer in the company in a management position, decided to leave the company, without compensation or anything, and create a company that created 10,000 jobs in twenty-five years...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u242	Thank you, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u243	They didn't want explanations? Ten thousand jobs in twenty-five years and creating an industrial sector in Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u244	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Thank you. Your time is up. [[Mr. Casal Vidal pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Thank you. There was an allusion, a trial of value, and this subject is cleared up. I am not going into what the Members say or say. You enjoy inviolability and you'll know how to use it. I'm the only one saying this is... [[Mr. Villares Naveira asks for the floor.]] No, Mr. Villares, I know why you're going to ask me for your word, but no. He didn't mean it here... No, that's been replicated already by Mr. Casal, who is... No, I won't give you the floor, because you answered the allusion correctly Mr. Casal. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, you have no word, Mr. Villares; you have no word. [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] That'll be a judicial matter if you want to do it like that. He's talking. The debate is not so; it is over. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And that's what you know more than I do. The debate is over. [[Murmurs.]] Let's vote. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] No, that's a Member's opinion, and I respect it; for that there are other mechanisms. To vote. Quiet. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u245	We vote. I think I've touched the bell three times, I suppose you'll all be warned. Let's start with the votes. There is some complexity here with the votes; I ask you to cooperate on this subject. In particular, the first vote is a debate which has been accumulated. I don't know if there can be a joint transaction or not; you will say, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u246	No, no, no, no. We reject the amendment of the People's Party and accept the amendment of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u247	Excuse me, do you reject the People's Group amendment and accept that of En Marea?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u248	Yes, the voices are informed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u249	And you don't accept the others? The Socialist Group doesn't accept it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u250	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u251	Let us vote on this proposal. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez: We call for a vote on points: the first three on one side and the fourth on the other.]] But to see if Mrs. Presas is left. So, what would that be like? That's 1, 2 and 3, and 4 separate. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez: From one to three, and the four separately.]] So we vote points 1, 2 and 3. We vote. Vote of points 1, 2 and 3 of the proposed non-law G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Galician Union in relation to the electrointensive industry. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes in favour, 36. The result of the vote is negative. Consequently, points 1, 2 and 3 of the transactioned text of this non-law proposal are rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u252	Let us now vote on point 4. Vote of point 4 of the proposed non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Galician Union in relation to the electrointensive industry. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 6; votes against, 36; abstentions, 27. The result of the vote is negative. Point 4 of this non-law proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u253	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Mrs Maria de los Angeles Cuña. I was pending a transaction, I don't know if they came to that deal. Give a voice to Mrs. Cuña's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u254	No, we didn't make a deal. If they want, we can vote for points. But it's just to confuse the dumb, the beast, the mountain horses with the domestic horse... We can't accept it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u255	Well, there's no deal. Do you offer a point vote?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u256	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u257	The groups? No, they don't care. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Then we vote like this. [[Murmurs.]] We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. de In Marea, at the initiative of Da Maria de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and Da Luca Chao Pérez, on the measures to be taken by Junta de Galicia regarding the protection of the claws. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes in favour, 36. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u258	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Moisés Blanco. He doesn't accept the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Moisés Blanco Paradelo and five other Members, on the maintenance by the Galician Union of their support to the professionals working in the part-time German field, as well as the encouragement of the measures necessary to encourage and protect their activity in it. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 50; abstentions, 19. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u259	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez. There are no amendments. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Da María Luisa Pierres López, on the referral by the Government of Galicia to the Parliament of Galicia, before the end of the X legislatura, of a bill of mobility which is sustainable for its approval. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes in favour, 36. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u260	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Ms Patricia Vilán. He accepts the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of D. Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and two other Members, on the development and approval by the Government of Galicia, before the end of 2019 and with the participation of parliamentary groups, of a new urban waste management plan in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes in favour, 36. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u261	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Miguel Tellado. There were amendments, I don't know if there's a transaction. There's a self-amendment. [[Mr. Miguel Tellado, there's a self-amendment.]] Of course, obviously. [[Mr. Miguel Tellado: And we accept it.]] The others don't accept it. [[Laughter]] We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Marta Nóvoa Churches and fourteen other Members, on the demand to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the establishment of a stable energy framework and a competitive electric price consensual with the electrointensive sector, as well as the action to be taken on the presentation of a temporary employment regulation file in the Ferroatlantic company. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 69. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u262	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Ms. Maria Montserrat Prado Cores. A point-by-point vote was requested from the rostrum. Do you accept the point vote? No, you don't. [[Mr Prado Colors: No.]] We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament regarding the demands of the Bosch company's staff based in Vigo, as well as the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the file of temporary employment regulation submitted by the company. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes in favour, 36. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u263	Finally, we voted for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea on the initiative of Mr Francisco Casal. Do you accept the amendment as an addition?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u264	Yes, points three and four, we accept them as add and we accept the point vote. The vote on points that the Socialist Party was asking was to vote on all the points less than the last, right? That is, from 1 to 6 together, and we accept the addition of Amendment Nos 3 and 4. [[Mrs. Otero Rodríguez: Vote from one to six together and the seven apart.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u265	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u266	And we would vote aside on point 7.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u267	Perfect. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira asks for the floor.]] Yeah? Give a voice to Mr. Tellado's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u268	We would like to request the separate vote on point 1.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u269	Do you accept the separate vote on point 1? [[Mr. Casal Vidal pronounces words that are not perceived.]] So we started voting on point 1. Vote of point 1 of the proposed non-law G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr Francisco Casal Vidal and two other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece and the management to be carried out before the Central Government in connection with the voluntary tender of creditors with a proposal to wind up the police factory in Narón. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 68. The voting is positive. Point 1 of this non-law proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u270	Let's vote points 2 to 6. Vote of points 2 to 6 of the proposed non-law G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr Francisco Casal Vidal and two other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece and the management to be carried out before the Central Government in connection with the voluntary tender of creditors with a proposal to wind up the police factory in Narón. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes in favour, 36. The result of the vote is negative. Consequently, points 2 to 6 of the transactioned text of this non-law proposal are rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u271	And now I don't know. This was the seventh point, or what was it? These were from 2 to 6. [[Mr. Calvo Pouso: from two to six. Seven is missing.]] Now that we have to vote, the seventh point? [[Mr. Calvo Pouso: Yes.]] We vote on the seventh point. Vote of point 7 of the proposed non-law of the G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr Francisco Casal Vidal and two other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece and the management to be carried out before the Central Government in connection with the voluntary tender of creditors with a proposal to wind up the police factory in Narón. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 36; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. Point 7 of the transactional text of this non-law proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u272	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. Change in agenda development
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u273	We continue, in this case, with a change in the agenda, so we advance a question to the Government. Question by Da Paula Prado del Río and eight other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on the view of the Government of Greece on the decision of the Ministry of Justice to withdraw for the first time from the proposal for the establishment of new judicial units formulated in a consensual manner by the Joint Commission formed by the High Court of Justice of Galicia and the Government of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u274	Question by Mrs Paula Prado of the Popular Parliamentary Group. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u275	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Vice-President, as you know, the competence for the creation of new judicial units lies with the Government of Spain. And whenever the Central Government has proceeded to create new judicial units, the Galician Union has expressed its willingness to make available to it all the expenses that the creation of these units implies, such as buildings, furniture, computer equipment and the material resources of officials who assist judges and prosecutors. Well, to make these decisions about the needs of the judicial units always take into account the opinion of the judges and magistrates. And for that, the Joint Justice Commission of Galicia is created, which is part of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia and the Union. There they adopt by consensus the needs for the creation of new judicial units and, once there is such consensus, they move to the Government of the State. This proposal, historically adopted by consensus between the Galician Council and the Galician High Court of Justice, has always been respected by the Central Government. The first time it happens that the consensual decision between the judges and the Government of Galicia has just happened to the socialist government of Pedro Sánchez. For the first time, one does not answer that question and for the first time a social judge is denied for Santiago and a social judge for Lugo. It's only a social trial for Vigo. Why would it be? This is an example of the sectarianism of the socialist government of Madrid and of the obsession they have with Galicia. They've already shown it in the 2019 raid budgets, in which Galicia was cut by 30% in investments, giving Catalonia 60%. The Government of the State despises the workers of Alcoa, despises the workers of Ence, and then comes the delegate of the Government, like a telephoner of Pedro Sánchez, saying things different from those in the papers. That's why, Vice President, I want to ask you. Because there's a question registered by En Marea that says exactly that there is a Member of En Marea, Mr Fernán-Vello, who asks the Government of Spain for the creation of these judicial units. And there's an answer from the Ministry that excludes the creation of the Lugo trial, an official response from the Ministry. I would like to ask you, Mr Vice-President, whether this is true which says here to the homophobic minister of Justice: "The Autonomous Community of Galicia, in its proposal for the creation of new judicial units, calls for the creation of three new social courts in that autonomous community, one in A Coruña, one in Santiago and one in Vigo." He doesn't say anything about Lugo's trial — official document, departure of February 28, 2019. Mr. Vice President, can you tell us what you officially know about Santiago's social court...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u276	Thank you. Your time is up, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u277	...and the social court of Lugo?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u278	Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u279	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Mrs. Prado, the Galician board officially knows what's on the papers the Ministry of Justice sent to her: that there will not be a social trial in Santiago or Lugo. That's what they sent us, what came from the official communication we received -- at least until today, and we've been through this process for months -- from the Ministry of Justice. It is true — and I think this is a good demonstration that in the Ministry of Justice someone literally lost their roles, too — that they went out saying that social judges had not been asked for in Lugo and Santiago. Then they rectified and had to admit that they did. But this is a symptom that you're not taking this the way you were to take it, as it has been taken so far — by course, with different governments — that it was objectively and taking into account the demands based on objective criteria that were made from autonomous communities; at least from the Autonomous Community of Galicia, which has always done so, precisely to avoid any kind of discussion, so that it was based on objective criteria and needs. You're right. We have always been from the autonomous communities — which, by the way, were not all, or much less — that we said that of all the judges who had been granted Galicia, we would accept their creation. And it is true that most of the economic cost — almost as a whole, not as a whole, but, of course, the most important part — takes it to Galician Union. We meet in joint committee with the judicial representatives and we agree, of the judges who tell us they grant us, which are the most priority. And that's what we've done now. The Ministry, in October — October 3, at the sectoral conference, announced that new trials would be created. We all told him how much sooner. Then they had to spend very few days, at that moment, to tell us the judges we wanted. And since then, months have passed without news from the Ministry, until a letter from the General Directorate of the Ministry of Justice was sent to us in February, in which it said that different trials were created to those whom we would request by mutual agreement with the High Court of Justice, first of all. I say, months without knowing anything since we sent the petition — by the way, we said that if there were more than three, more than three we would like, but they said only three. And we found ourselves in February that they weren't the ones we asked for. And since then I think it's already known the position of everyone who has some interest — and there are many sectors, including civil society — in which those judges are believed. We later met the correction that the government delegate made two days later, emitting the whole plan to what the Director General of the Ministry of Justice had just said. But by the way, I have to say that this was a press teletype, and we didn't know anything else. To this day, and officially, Santiago remains unjudged by the social. He's not the one who proposed to create the Ministry. More than that statement made by the government delegate -- we don't know who asked him -- the Ministry of Justice obviously didn't give a reason for that to be rectified. And Lugo is exactly the same. We now know that the Mayor of Lugo had a meeting with the Ministry of Justice and told him they were going to give him what's already. If in the end the solution to Lugo is that there's a backup judge, there's that, with which...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u280	Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u281	...in the end, the conclusion is that Lugo can also be left without a social judgment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u282	Thank you. Mrs. Prado's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u283	Yes, Vice President, we're actually much more concerned than we were. You're telling us that on the role, officially, Mr. Sánchez's Government of Spain does not confirm that there will be a social trial in Lugo and a social trial in Santiago. I'm sorry that in this House he stopped, if he got out of the brake, by the Socialist Group, he was presenting a lot of initiatives to ask for new judicial units when he ruled the People's Party in the State. You don't know anything now, there's absolute silence now. And Mr. Sánchez does what he does is to use the government delegate as a telegnoser to say what they are not able to put on a paper: that there will be a trial where they will not be. That, Mr. Vice-President, is the Government's contempt of Sánchez to Galicia. And those "sales of the Euromillion", where they're wasting all the public money, the only thing they're going to take us to is where socialist governments always take us after governments: to "Mondays to the sun." [[Murmurs.]] After the Fridays of the Euromillion, what comes next is Mondays in the sun. [[Murmurs.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are absolutely in agreement that they continue to fight, Mr Vice-President, so that it is a reality that the trial of the social of Santiago and the trial of the social of Lugo is a reality. I and this parliamentary majority group of the House, which supports the Government, we ask you, Mr Vice-President, to continue to insist and ask this homophobic and machist minister that at least he does not continue to despise Galicia, who does not despise Galicia, to give Galicia what belongs to her, what the Greeks and the Greeks ask her, and what the Joint Commission asks of them, who represents all the judges of Galicia, who are not any of them, who know the real needs of Galicia, and who cease to despise the Joint Commission, who ceases to despise the lights, who cease to despise the saints and who cease to despise Galician people. It's good that the Government of Pedro Sánchez despises Galicia every day since the beginning of that evil government that nothing is giving Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u284	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u285	...and that is Spain's worst government for Galician interests. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u286	Close the question by the Chair's advisor, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u287	Yes, thank you, President. Well, Mrs Prado, in summarizing the situation, it's true that there's not much more to say about this than we are. I wish this could be untied. [[Murmurs.]] We don't know anything, at the level of convening a sectoral conference, of contacts between the Ministry and the autonomous communities, since 3 October. It was the only time we had a meeting. We were told that we'd be summoned in a short time and that's been six months, no more news. In the middle of this happened what I was saying in my first intervention: a lot of urgency for us to say that judges were necessary, and from there on to nothing. The judges could have been created since January 1st, they could have been working. The Board had a budgetary commitment to, if between October and December they would take care of the requests we made, prepare everything and that were working. I say this because — according to the mayor of Lugo — they sent him the other day of the Ministry that there was a lot of urgency to put those judges into operation. So I ask you where that urgency is, when we've been without any knowledge for six months more than knowing that the request made by the Council of Galicia is disallowed, and -- I remember, it's important -- the judicial power in Galicia. Today — I insist — except for a statement, a chant made by the government delegate by denying, and emitting the plain absolutely, what the Ministry had said two days earlier — that also speaks well to the clears of the rigour with which the proposals or counter-proposals are made from the Government of Spain, we know nothing. There is already a month and there is no communication — I hope it will arrive — to say that, in fact, if you are going to give a social judgment to Santiago, which is what we ask for. But it's about a month, and from this supposed urgency and this supposed correction to that which the government delegate forced the Ministry of Justice, we know absolutely nothing. I think this is important to say because it was done. And it's a month -- I hope it's confirmed -- and we don't know anything at all. Of course, as far as the social court in Lugo is concerned, if what will finally be granted is what the Mayor of Lugo said they would have at the meeting that he said he had — we have no knowledge, and that is what we are responsible, the competent and the ones who would have to pay and bear the economic costs of the decision being made — we know absolutely nothing. As far as institutional matters are concerned, the top — it must also be said — is. Nothing, absolutely, we know, more than what the Mayor of Lugo said to give him a reinforcement judge — that, I insist, there already exists, he is already in Lugo — and three reinforcement officers, like many of the reinforcement officers who pay for the Galician Union. That's the same thing to say that Lugo has no social judgment. If that's the solution for a year -- as you were told, by the way -- as a patch, that and not having judged the social is exactly the same. I therefore hope that the Ministry will rectify it, that it will not have to be rectified again by the government delegate. And, if correct, correct it soon. Finally, let them be rigorous and let those judges be put to work as soon as possible. We said three judges as priorities, the three of the social; two of them ignored us. We're in this sanite, and from that moment on, months go by. And the people who are waiting for their cases to be agitated see how they can't be created. Of course, it's not for the Galician Union, which has been budgeted since the first day.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u288	Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u289	And these corrections between the Ministry and the socialists in Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u290	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u291	...I'm asking them to finish...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u292	Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u293	...and that we have security over the justice of the Galician people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u294	Thank you. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo asks for the floor.]] First, I wanted to say one thing, if you don't mind. I don't like certain languages that are used. I, of course, see myself in a very complex thesis when I withdraw, because I can't consider them insulting. No, no, of course, it's very difficult. Members have the freedom to say certain things, and I would ask them to use that freedom. For example, consider that metaphorically you can say that a gentleman is a telenician that I can't... I can't consider it a language... I don't like that language. I don't like that language. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, sorry, I'm talking, I'm still talking. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm still talking! [[Strong murmurers.]] Mrs. Vilan, what I ask you, please, is that we all behave. I don't like... No, I ask everyone, Mrs. Prado, everyone. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's do it normally. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I do not like it, but certain expressions, as you will understand, are part of the speech of the honourable Members. [[Strong murmurers.]] Yes, I'll leave you your turn. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u295	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u296	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u297	I ask the honourable Member of the People's Party to remove the adjectives "telebek", "homophobic" and "machist."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u298	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u299	Because more homophobic and macho than resort to the Constitutional Court the Law of Homosexual Marriage is nothing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u300	Thank you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Will you take it off? No, no... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, for a moment. Please, let's not complicate the debate, let's not complicate the debate. No, no. I'll ask you... please, Mr. Pazos. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Peace, please, be quiet. [[Mr Prado del Río asks for a word.]] Mrs. Prado, what do you want the word for? Will you remove those expressions?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u301	Mr. President, I said that Mr. Pedro Sánchez uses as a telenecist the delegate of the Government, I didn't say he was a telenecist, point one. Point two...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u302	It's a slaughter. [[Strong murmurers.]] Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u303	...that the lady who calls us "the People's Party of Epi and Blas" should teach us lessons and talk today about Alice's neck in the country of wonders" and have the glass jaw, Mr. President... [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u304	That's it, shut up!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u305	...the truth is that it surprises a lot...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u306	Your time is up. Thank you. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] Time's up. Thank you, that's it. Please, everybody behave. What do you want me to tell them? It's over. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Agenda development modification
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u307	We are going to the cumulative debate on two interpellations. Da Eva Solla Fernández's interview with G.P. of En Marea, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to primary health care Interpellation by D. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the evaluation of the Council of Galicia in relation to the position shown by the collectives and professionals regarding the measures announced to reformulate the model of primary care in the public health system, as well as the impact of these on existing problems
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u308	Mrs Solla, first of all, has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u309	Thank you, President. Let's see if we all calm down. Good morning, Mr. Almuña, I think today you must be glad that we're bringing you in and you can explain here or lie to Mr. President about what you moved this morning. Because, frankly, I was listening from the Bureau of Parliament and I was embarrassed to hear how the primary care professionals were being attacked — in this case, with reference to that treatment or to that consideration that was given to them by receiving a prize from the chiefs and primary care chiefs in Vigo. The contempt that echoes the words that have been moved here do not even have, I think, a cover in this area that we are living in, that of electoral campaign, and that we understand that it will be the usual in the debates. But it is no longer the first time that the primary care professionals are scorned by the President of the Council of Galicia, because, as not everyone thinks the same as him, unfortunately we see how professionals should be discredited. In fact, today we are bringing it up to discuss a question of which you know not only yourself, but all the Members of the House. We just have to listen to the words of the last few weeks, of the last few days, saying that they only want to defend primary care and public health for those who sign agreements with the Council of Galicia. All the others that we do not agree, that they do not agree, that they have criticism and that they consider — we consider — that what you are doing is a measure of deterrence from mobilizations, an attempt to deter mobilizations, and not real proposals, according to the President of the Galician Council, they do not deserve consideration to say that they are defending public health. That is a huge contempt for thousands of professionals in this country's public health system. You have a very good opportunity for, of course, to contradict and reject the words of President Núñez Feijóo. And, look, today we bring you here because, unfortunately, at your previous plenary meeting you didn't clear out key issues here -- at least for us, and I think that for most professionals -- as is the budget devoted to those proposals of improvements that you say you have on the table and that you are negotiating with professionals and professionals. Today we want it to respond, clearly and meridically, what is the budgetary percentage it intends to increase the Council of Galicia in order to carry out the measures in the medium, short and long term that are set out in that proposal for a plan that you move. Among other things, Mr. Almuña, because, as we have already told you in the audience of the full past, these 8 million euros that you announce annually, in two annums, in repairing health centres, obviously, are not useful to put professionals, they are not dedicated to chapter I. So please answer which percentage is that. And if you do the favor, move us also where that amount comes from, what chapter is dedicated to, and if you're going to increase chapter I, because you're not responding to the fundamental demand of professionals, which is staff increment. That agreement — which is not an agreement, which you have already been told here in the morning that what is being said by professionals at a table where you met to deal with such an important point as the improvement of primary care — is absolutely insufficient. And if you've already told them here -- and we've commented many times -- what professionals are there. The point is that you have to take these squares to the public supply, the competition, which there are remaining professionals, and that you don't care about most of the professional categories. That's a problem and you're not doing it. This morning another of the things that the president of the board moved was that they agreed with a large part of the measures proposed by the workers and workers at the points of continued attention. I want to say here that it's an insult this gentleman says here in the House that he agrees with professional people that no one is heeding them at all. You've got up, you've broken the negotiation, because you're not negotiating with the strike committee of the continued attention points. And today the workers and the workers have been turning once again to take a step to draw attention to the need for you to feel, because there's been a strike for months and you're not negotiating. Those workers and these workers today left their few hours off to walk to the Health Council to tell you that you have to take care of the demands of the professionals, that you cannot work without staff and that there is still discovery at the continuing attention points. When you want to make a deal, you sit down and negotiate. And who they have to sit down and negotiate with is with the strike committee. There's a strike, there's a strike committee, and you're disregarding those professionals. That's the way to negotiate. Of course, all agreements with a strike committee — and I don't think I have to explain it here — are then moved, in the case of the public administration, to the table where the whole union is represented. But you have to sit down with the strike committee because there's a strike and the demands for increased personnel are not being met. And already in the previous plenary we denounce here the continuing existence of discoveries, within the continuing attention points, of professionals and professionals who move — from the hospitals' departments and from the Health Council — from one centre to another, leaving the defenceless population in the absence of sufficient personnel. And we remember here the problems, what happened at the Road CAP, the situation we've been reporting since a long time ago, but, above all, since then, the risk that there is when there's not enough staff. I was told this morning, that I was transferred by the professionals, that we told him they were outraged because you're not sitting in the middle of negotiations, and the proposals that say they accept them from the negotiation don't even have to be negotiated. Because if you say you're going to pay the professionals a diet, it's not negotiable. The ones we're here are charging transportation diets, maintenance diets. How are they not going to pay the public health staff a diet, the diets to professionals who keep guards, and thus have a right? It's just that it shouldn't even be negotiating, it's an insult. We've been told that, please, we've reminded you that your safety is not negotiated, and that you say you're going to accept measures like the ambulances can fix the gears so they don't hit each other during transport is outrageous. Because that shouldn't even be negotiating. You want to get the headline out of accepting things in a negotiation when they're neither negotiating nor, of course, taking any action that substantially improves the situation of these people and therefore the service they provide. Because it's obvious that the laws you have to comply with. And a lot of rest laws — which we have moved them here — are violated, including European directives on the safety of workers and workers. And therefore the observance of a law is not negotiable. I don't think I don't even have to remember you, because you're a health adviser. And that's all you say you're accepting staff from the continuing attention points. We're still in the same situation. From here I want to transfer our support to them, because it's really very difficult to keep a strike with this contempt for so many months. Obviously — Mr Feijóo said in the morning — of course, the services are 100 percent, the minimum services. The problem is that the rest of the time the staff is in minimal or less services, because they don't meet in many cases the minimums required to provide proper health care. And that doesn't appear in your primary care proposal, in that role I told you in the previous appearance that you have no budget associated. And we ask you again about that budget, Mr. Almuña, because we continue in the same situation. And it's not circumstantial that we have a strike proposal called for 9, 10 and 11. Clearly, it needs to be concrete and materialized through trade union representatives. But that's the way it is, the workers want to strike, they're going to strike, because you don't meet the minimums they're asking for in the field of professional growth. And I think it's historic, nowhere else happens, that professionals manifest themselves and go to a strike, or propose a strike, not to defend better people but to ask, please, not to leave them drawn without sufficient staff, because what's at stake is also health care and therefore the rights of Galicians and Greeks. This situation remains unresolved and what you propose in that plan is absolutely empty, it has no concretion and it is insufficient what you present. They're offering a number of things without there's enough budget to carry them out. I said this in the previous appearance, and it must be remembered: we and the rest of the groups have amended the budgets, which have not been accepted, to increase also the chapters devoted to public health personnel. We don't know why they never accept those amendments. And right now we have a very small budget on health personnel that don't give to provide squares if you don't change those budgets. And, therefore, you should answer that question. We'd also like you to tell us if that's what they're proposing is enough, if that increase in squares seems enough to you. We'd also like you to tell us, with regard to nursing skills, if you're going to put more means to the nurse collective. I told you the last time. Some gentlemen meet in a room and decide among themselves what we're going to do in the nursing profession. We are often seen in the 1980s and, of course, there is no increase in the number of professionals expected. Not about the squares that are unconsolidated — and I'm going to finish now, that I don't have time, but about the real needs of the service. I remind you here of the number of squares, more than a thousand squares, which you have destroyed in healthcare personnel in the last ten years in this country. And I challenge it again -- because you never transfer it -- to tell us where the personnel data are coming from, which is the source, where the encryption is, how it is calculated, and that it transfers the formula of Coca-Cola, if it exists, that you use to give the number of professionals...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u310	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u311	...of public health. Because they're not real, we have more than a thousand less and you don't consider anything in the Primary Care Plan to replace them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u312	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Now we're going to greet the students from Tomás Terrón Mendaña, from Carballeda de Valdeorras, and the teachers who accompany them. They're students from 1st and 2nd ESO. Welcome to Parliament, and also to the people who accompany us today in the rostrum. And now you have the floor, by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u313	Thank you, President. Good morning, and good morning also to our guests and guests today. Counselor, good morning. You arrive today — let me tell you — dragged into this Parliament, as it has always been. By his own free will, he doesn't appear unless we ask him. And today you will be able to answer this question. In the last full came after we asked him to attend. He did that little trick, the one that said, "Well, now I ask you too." And since he couldn't announce what he thought he was going to be able to announce, tomorrow the manager of Sergas in charge will come in and see if he can announce it or not. I don't think they can yet announce many things. But you really have that desire to laugh at this Parliament. In general, you try to take a picture outside, but I'm not able to solve it inside. And that's our concern. They're more concerned about selling than about solving, and that's why the truth is problematic. Look, it's a strange debate to discuss whether there are any acts or agreements on things. I believe that, when there is an agreement, the parties that sign a supposed agreement recognize that agreement as such. And, with the exception of the Council, no one who subscribes to that supposed agreement accepts it as such. So I, when I come to an agreement with someone, if the other one doesn't recognize it as an agreement, it's hard... If you go to a medical school page, to the website, to access that document, the title is clear: Minutes of the March 20 meeting. But, finally, we're not going into language debate. What I thought was that if one of the parties that subscribed to a document doesn't recognize it as an agreement, bad. But you debate that if it's an act, if it's an agreement... they're more concerned about the image. Even you, to adjust the image, brought here the collation the Basque counselor, who made statements. And out of all the intervention he did, they pulled him out of there a small part that put the Council's actions very well. You remember, you know -- I'm telling you constantly -- that our position is that we believe that you must have resigned a long time ago. But you, to defend your position, invoked the Basque counselor. The day after they did, they stopped. You have to recognize a certain political capacity, not only do you resign but you have made the counselor resign from another place just to come here to speak well of your management. You came here, you spoke well of yourself, and the next day they stopped. Every time we give him a critique, he's shaking all the health counsellors in all the autonomous communities of Galicia, because it's not going to be me quote any. The truth is, Counselor, you have to recognize your ability to do so. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Didn't the Andalusian have anything to do with it? No, there were some elections. Don't worry, you'll see. You're going to enjoy within a month the power of elections and voting, you're going to enjoy within a month, don't worry. [[Applause]] Counselor, you have this problem that you have this debate between the image and, uh, look, I remind you that, when the chiefs of service in the Vigo area were dismissed, you said they were missing the truth. Not too many people were begging them not to leave a meeting. I remind you that, when there are citizen mobilizations, you say people go to mobilizations because they set up buses and snacks. It gives the feeling that either there's a lot of snacks or there's a lot of desire to mobilize because the perception of health is bad. You're on an election campaign and they're shooting at the Ministry. It's a ministry involved in solving, and you're more interested in being escapist, in seeing if they blame someone. You're more concerned about taking a picture saying you solve it than you can't solve. And the truth is, you've now found, it's true, that goodness to have a ministry to shoot at. I wonder, about any of the questions that you have rhetorically asked about the Ministry, what would happen if you had done it about Dolors Monserrat or about what Alfonso Alonso did or about what Ana Mato did — seven years of advisers, ministers in this case, of the People's Party's Health. You didn't open your mouth. In seven months' rule of Pedro Sánchez you have already found who blames you — seven years for seven months. Frankly, there's a ministry that's going a little too far in action. You propose a one-year contract, the Ministry proposes two. It's a little macabre laugh. [[Laughter]] I know that stability... is that you consider stability a one-year contract. Two of them... how crazy the Ministry has been hiring doctors for two years, what a horrible thing! I know it's a joke; to doctors, none, to doctors, none, it's not going to be. I'm telling you because, laughing at you hiring doctors... it's not for that, either, Counselor. I know you enjoy doctors' strikes, you enjoy seeing doctors lose rights and exploit. I know, but I don't see it that way either, I don't see it that way either. You're certainly a little nervous, but don't use this as an electoral weapon. They can debate, they can propose. Because then you go to the ministry and they don't say what they say in public, because it's a lie. He's going to ask for these extraordinary calls from the MIR when you actually recognize, as you have to recognize here, that it's a matter of accreditation from the Council, the Council! Five accreditations throughout Spain paralysed by the Government of the People's Party — in Galicia, not requested by some of them — Besides, with you, we have lost accreditations in family medicine, Counsellor, we have lost accreditations. And now ask him to settle it in seven months. For sure, the Ministry has decided, that it has called for an MIR with 5% more squares at the last call; that it will convene — the next – the largest MIR in history. And they know. However, you're looking for someone to blame. You have a problem with primary care, and you have it because I can't solve it. Now they remember that there was a problem, now! I had already commented on it in the previous plenary, Counselor: people, when they retire, usually retire around the same age, and everyone is one year old every year. It was very possible to predict the "bum" of retirements for a long time. You are now beginning to make decisions — yet timidly. You'll have another problem: a good number of MIR tutors will retire to good measure. Are they doing something to fix it? No, no, no, no. Because one of the demands of doctors is that they have to encourage much more the presence of tutors, who now have no incentive whatsoever than a strong will to work for the system to have continuity. But you're putting the kindness of the system in which professionals want the system. You, no; but the professionals, yes. And you are depositing all goodness on it. We're going to have a Mir tutor problem. We're going to have, of course, a retirement problem in the coming years, which is already starting. You're now finding out that people get older. Well, look, everyone, more or less, as I say, one year each year, about. Some of us do more because we grow faster. But, in any case, you have that problem, that reality, and they're now starting to look for no more solutions but to blame those. There are the heads of service in the primary vigo area dismissed. We still don't know, Counselor, if you have any plans to do more than ask them to not leave, or say they won't accept the resignation. The CAP is still demanding things — as has already been said here by En Marea's spokesman — that should not be negotiable, that should be assumed. It is surprising that we have to be today accepting as agreements and as a strong negotiating capacity that advances in things that are incomprehensible that are no longer advanced — and there have been some examples here already. You feed collective conflicts, get together with nurses, and tell them they're going to do everything they're gonna do and put in nursing directions. They meet with doctors and they tell doctors, "No, calm down, we're not going to put nursing directions on nurses." But then the nurses say, "We've come to an agreement for this. And the doctors say, "No, we've reached an agreement on the contrary. And you blame them. Well, or Touriño, who also likes to blame, or Zapatero. You've got to blame a lot of people. But you're not able to bring all the collectives together and reach agreements with all of them, because they don't have that negotiating ability. You -- I told you at the last appearance -- have a problem, but it's natural and it's legitimate. You had a model, an intention with public health. And by the way, we were listening to Mr. Feijóo say that "between PP and PSOE we were building..." No, no, you, when you had laws to vote in favour, voted against, against forever, the law of 2008 in Galicia and the law of 86 in Spain. [[Applause]] Against! If it was for the PP, we weren't the way we were. You don't get into this car, but Mr. Feijóo. Yes, and less Mr. Feijó, yes; and less Mr. Feijóo. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u314	Silence! Go on, toast. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u315	I'll explain. I don't have enough ego yet, like Mr. Feijóo, to believe that I built Sergas. But I do belong to a party that voted in favour of public health. And you, Mr. Puy, no. [[Strong murmurers.]] And I'm sorry you have to drag that personal and moral debt with that party. But you have a problem, it belongs to a party that voted against public health. So, if you don't mind, I'll keep talking.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u316	Silence! Continue, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u317	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u318	Silence, Mr. Puy! Silence! They don't dialogue. Continue your exposure.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u319	The Indian, the parrots, the telenies... the truth is, it's the complicated thing. [[Murmurs.]] Counselor, I would ask you, as I suggested in the previous appearance, that you have a model that failed, which is legitimate. You were defending that model, you failed, and now you want to scratch and try to defend another model with modifications that are basically, at first, trying to retrieve things that you threw down.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u320	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u321	What we have proposed and what is now impossible to defend is a model contrary to what they were defending. That start cannot be a final point. It must be a real continuity to a new model, which you are not ready to do right now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u322	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u323	And we should change the direction of the Council, Counsellor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u324	The health counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u325	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I also welcome students, students and teachers from Tomás Terrón College of Valdeorras Carballeda. Welcome. First of all, I want to make a precision. Because talking about people who aren't in the Chamber I don't think he's, at least, polite. But I think Mrs. Solla didn't understand the president's words. The president for nothing despises professionals, never despises them. He knows them well because he worked for many years in Sergas and Health and knows perfectly the magnificent professionals we have in public health in Galicia and Spain as well. So it's not the president's comment. The president said that some awards were used, and that health is used. In Vigo, health is often used as a political weapon, unfortunately. Instead of helping, it is always used. Each of the heads of service who resigned at Vigo have the professional worth to receive that prize or any other. But the political reason for giving them that prize from whoever gave it to you, the mayor of Vigo, was to have a complaint before the Council of Galicia, not for their professional worth and all the professionals who work in the Vigo area, or any other area of Galicia. That's the difference. What's the matter is, sometimes we go after the twitter. At the same time as we are in Parliament we are using twitter and surely we do not listen well to what needs to be heard. On 12 March I came to this Parliament to report on the new model of primary care. And in that appearance, I first did an analysis of the situation by providing data. Because in order to advance in the design of this new model, it is essential to get to know reality well and to count on the necessary information. We have magnificent primary care. Yesterday a person, Jordi Varela, said he's a family doctor with a broad trajectory in Catalonia. He said that we have very good public health in Spain — and primary care in particular —. And besides, very much appreciated by citizens, which is something we sometimes forget. The best assessment of all health activities in Spain is primary care. But in the last few years, because I believe that the tensions derived from the lack of professionals to make that cover of replacements of the fellows who are working, because there are, let's say, disfigured that the model has to be able to make the change. And before that, three years ago, we took action, we started to take action. It was from the first Spanish health services in Spain that started to take measures; measures such as the flexibility of retirement age; measures such as the flexibility of retirement age, and which could voluntarily elect those who want to continue with us — and so they did a significant number of professionals— have started taking measures; measures such as the stabilisation plan, agreed with most trade unions; measures such as the flexibility of the MIR family squares to be able to form more professional, and they could voluntarily elect the ones who want to continue with us — and so they have made it an important number of professionals— and so they have made it an important number of professionals— and so they have made it a significant number of professionals; the stabilization plan, agreed with most trade unions; we have also increased the MIR family-care professionals' age; we have also increased the MIR family-based MIR family-care professionals to be able to become more professional workers; we have started taking measures to take measures; measures such as the first health care services in Spain, which were able to make the first health services for the first health services of Spain which have started to take; measures to take; measures as the first have started to take the first the first the health services of the health services of the first health services of Spain, measures to take the health services of Spain, measures which have started; measures which have started to take the first of the first health services of the health health services of the health services of the health services of Spain, measures to take the health services of the health services of Spain, measures which have started to take the health services of the health services of the health services of Spain, measures which have started; measures which have started to take taken to take to take to take to take to take the first the first the first the first the health care of the health care of the health services of the health services of the health services of Spain, measures; measures; measures which have started to take to take to take to take the first of the first the first of the first of the health services of the health services of the health services of the health services of the health services of Spain; measures which have started; measures which have started; measures which have started; measures which have been the first of the health services of the health services of the health services of the first of the health services of the first of the first of the health services of the health services of the health services of the health services of Spain of Spain Since December, we said that all these measures we've taken are not enough, they're not enough. And so we're going to continue to take action, and for that we want to convene, in groups of improvements, professionals from all professional categories that form the major primary care team. Because primary care is not just doctors and nurses, but a great team in which ten professional categories are working for us every day. And in December we started an intense schedule to try to arrive, as we said, February with a first draft. And today we keep working on it. We've been working all these weeks, and we're still making changes to make the model the best possible. And for that we need the incorporations of all of them. This model, this first draft, as I said, was introduced on February 20. They were invited to participate in scientific societies, professional schools, they were also asked to represent each professional category in the health areas of Galicia so that there would be coverage. We're asked who forms the enhancement groups. The groups of improvements provide training for the professionals in Greek health. And in addition, all the initiatives — they started being 175 and now they are 183 — each and every one of them, were made by the professionals who were involved. But not only is this not enough, this important representation that is professional, but we also call citizens. They did — for the first time, certainly, in an area and in such an important change as this — surveys sent through the Council website, where citizenship — 4,549 people — has answered about what the future needs of primary care are for her. What professionals were asking us was more and more time to be able to care for patients. It's logical, it's a reasonable request, and that's why we're working on trying to coordinate. These initiatives aim to create a teamwork philosophy: the head team, the primary care team, the strong, untied teams and, of course, with initiatives proposed by them. The Council will also make the important effort to increase human resources. Of course this will lead to an increase in human resources, yes, of course it will. And so it's established. And, in fact, that agreement we had a few days ago with the different scientific societies, the three major medical scientific societies and also the Medical College Council, it talks about specific medical squares for the next two years. The increase in squares should contribute to the fact that professionals, as the president said this morning, have more time to devote to patients. But this is not the only measure envisaged in the primary care model. There are other highlights, such as the reorganisation of work within primary care teams. The equipment consists of different categories, up to ten different categories. We also have instruments such as new technologies that allow us to get closer to the citizen and provide services in a more accessible way, such as the Telea platform, which facilitates the follow-up of people with chronic diseases; also through Connecta 72 we carry out the follow-up of people who have been discharged into hospitals; and telephone consultation provides optimal accessibility to solve some issues without people having to move. The Telea part of an innovation project at European level, with European funds, because Europe knows that in the coming years the reality we have right now in Galicia can be the same in each of the regions of the European Union. And so Galicia is serving as a model, because it has advanced medicine and because it's also using new technologies. As for the family doctor's squares, it should be noted that in 2018 they worked in primary care 2.566 professionals — 164 more than in 2008 — and that 96% of them have a stable contract. Despite this, we say we have more professionals working and unfortunately have less population, but it's true that a more aged population. The ratio of patients/medicines in Galicia is sixth in all of Spain. It indicates we're going to work in the right direction. In addition, in the public job offer for this year 2019, adopted at the Council of June 28 February, we convened 200 family doctors' squares and 35 pediatricians, who, together with the 2018 offer, will make a total of 254 family doctors and 93 pediatricians at the next exam call. On the other hand, as I said before, we also wagered by specialized nursing — we are pioneers in the Autonomous Community of Galicia — who specializes in family and community medicine and in pediatrics. In fact, as I said, we are pioneers. And at OPE we already include 28 more squares, 20 professionals in family nursing in 2019 and 8 in pediatrics. In particular, with regard to pediatrics, there is at present an unequal distribution of children in cities and in rural areas — especially in the interior — so there will be a need to articulate formulas that allow accessibility and pediatric care continuity and a more equitable distribution of workloads. We have brought here to this Parliament that on average we are on the 900 TIS of children per pediatrician, under the national average, which is around 1,100. But there are areas of Galicia, districts of Galicia, where we have up to 300 children per pediatrician, a ratio, of course, far lower than the rest of the country. We continue to bet on creating squares already, indeed, and we believe that chronicity should spin over nursing in the case of chronic patients with low complexity. The role of nursing needs to be increased and, therefore, more nursing facilities will come behind it. One part will be specialized nursing, but another part with the nursing we have right now, which has an indisputable experience. And we ask the Ministry to speed up this accreditation, through the extraordinary way, of primary care nursing, which has been working for many years and therefore doing a great job, so that it also has this specialty and can also be in the creation of the new specialty squares. [[Applause]] And also, if anything was needed, it was that primary care and hospital care shared and made reality the care continuity, which began with the integration of a single clinical history for each patient; a fact of what we now do not remember and which was also rejected. Electronic clinical history was rejected at the beginning because it seemed that it would make the relationship between the doctor and the patient difficult. Today, of course, we understand that this is inseparable from clinical practice. Patient-centred attention needs a highly coordinated work among professionals, breaking the stagnity, since the patient needs coordinated, integral and integrated care, and we were able to overcome these barriers and really put it at the center of the system axis and also improve communication between primary care professionals and hospitals; and therefore, returning to the past would be a retreat. Regarding the different issues that have been claimed, we're working on them. Mostly, as I say, it's almost a closed document, possibly in two weeks we'll have it closed definitely. We were asked by professionals for a primary care budget, a commitment to have a specific budget for the spending program in primary health care. Chapter I already had it, and it has an increase deviation -- as in chapter I in general year after year -- but it's independent of chapter I of the hospital. For the first time, we are going to compromise a Chapter VI, a necessity plan. This is the first time this needs plan is made. There was a chapter VI which was simply for the works, for new centers, and at the moment a need plan will be created, a chapter VI which is — we speak of — with 17.3 million euros in two years. As I say, there was no plan of exclusive needs for primary care. You're going to have it this year and next, for an important amount that you're going to go to the topic of electromedical, furniture and computer equipment. And it's going to be prioritized, as it should be, by the heads of health care centres. We also changed the organizational chart of the health areas, of the EOXI, creating a primary care direction with new specific functions only for primary care; and that it is the unique interlocutor of the head of service to try to give greater autonomy of management to health centres and that, in a coordinated way, they can improve their daily activity. Also, as I say, the care burden is diminished, as long as we are asked. That's why we're increasing and we're going to hire more doctors. The interim and continuity contract we're doing is working very well and it's going to help. And the formation of more MIR is important too. This contract will, of course, allow us to lower that aid pressure even further. And that's why we're asking for MIR's extraordinary summons to be able to have a larger number of doctors, doctors who are now out of medical school and have no way out, so they can have that specialization. We are also about to respond to the CAP. Today it seems that they were going to leave a new meeting request with a new proposal, which they announced when they were at the table in the last few weeks and since then we haven't had any news. We want to reach agreements. And as I say, we also have aspects like zoning in the urban area. We're working on it, but we want it to be, of course, with as many agreements as possible. We're also going to work at the interconsultation, with time constraints, and also opening up...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u326	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u327	...a new channel for them. And something we'll be doing right when the Bloomberg Report on the healthier countries, published last February, places us as the healthiest country in the world, with a score of 92.7 over 100. We agree that the health system is good, but, like everything else, it's better. Of course, the commitment of the Galician board, the Health Council, is to follow this path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u328	Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez Almuinho. Mrs. Solla Fernández has the floor on her back.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u329	Thank you, President. What is lacking in respect is that the President of the Council is not present in this debate. If that's a disrespect, that's a disrespect. You can name people who aren't present in this House and just tell us that we can't replicate what we think, that it's not only wrong but it attacks the public health professionals. You did not hear well, apparently, according to what you moved here in this rostrum, because it was said, indeed, that there were other professionals to give you that decoration or that prize. And we don't like anything to move here the municipal debate, we've already pronounced it in many areas. But what we like less is that the public health professionals are insulted and the chiefs and chiefs of service are insulted who have defended that with cuts you cannot work. So bad they shouldn't be when you keep them in coordination; because, of course, you didn't pronounce them out of that coordination. So bad and so bad they shouldn't be, Mr. Almuña, despite what Mr. President says. And by the way, there's a question in the interrogation. If you think they're not missing out on this, answer us why they haven't taken them into account when talking about the alleged plan you've been making. Figures in the last place of this interview, you can read it. I'm sure you have it there in writing. We'd like you to answer us. Why didn't you consider the professionals who are denouncing the situation they have in their services? And that you come here saying that the primary care professionals of the continuing attention points are the ones who got up from the table is, of course, a shame. I'm sorry to tell you, but you're not up to the advice you're taking. Moving to the professionals, who have been on strike for months, holding a strike that is very difficult, very difficult!, with compulsory guards, with the impossibility of changing shifts, Mr. Almuño, that responsibility is theirs, when they want from the beginning to reach an agreement, is certainly a shame. You're not up to these professionals, you're not up to the public health professionals. And I'm sorry to move it, but I think it's a shame it's responsible for them. And today, when I talked to them and them before this intervention, they said to me, "They don't listen to us, they get up from the negotiating table, they don't go to us, they didn't negotiate any staff increments." There's nothing in chapter I. What are you talking about, Mr. Almuinha? Of course there are deviations. In this plenary we have been discussing the Board of Auditors. You guys don't listen, they ignore the Board of Auditors' considerations. There are changes in health budgets every year and he still boasts of budgeting. Please! For once, they increase the personal chapter in the right way. Tell them where they're going to get the money, how they're going to modify those budgets, and stop talking about the repairs they're going to make from the health centers, talk about chapter I, about staff. It's no good that you paint on a paper that you're going to put on. I don't know what squares and what a desire to put on it. I don't know what squares if there's no budget, Mr. Almuño. That's the reality, professionals want to create real things, real measures that allow them to work in better conditions. Of course they want more time for their patients! How could they not? And to work as a team, Mr. Almuña, you need to increase the rest of the professional categories. Tell us what you're going to do with the absence of midwives in primary care, the absence of psychologists and clinical psychologists, the absence of physiotherapists. We're sick of bringing these questions. You always vote against. They are neither in the proposal nor in that role that you brought to us on the day of appearance, nor in that I do not agree with what they have come to with the professionals, in this case of medicine — that you say it is an agreement. I'm not going to argue here about semantics, but they don't agree with you that it is. They didn't sign anything. Just as you say there's no strike, there's nothing agreed with any trade union station, Mr. Almuño. There's paper, wet paper, no budget in chapter I. It answers, because it's very important, and stop talking about the repairs of health centers. And, please, if you want to talk to us about this, remember that you have cut that chapter of repair, improvement and equipment from the health centres practically to leave it without a euro — and not EUR 700,000 — last year. No wonder they have to increase it! Because there's a lot of health centers with glasses, architectural barriers or 20 years ago, Mr. Almuña. But that doesn't solve the staff chapter. We have an obvious, serious problem. I think it must be handled with a little seriousness, not taking responsibility for the professionals. You've woke up late, and you've woken up after you've amortized a lot of squares in this health system, more than a thousand health professionals less.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u330	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u331	Please take advantage of your duplicity to explain to us — because you didn't say so — where you get the data from from professionals. Because it's a lie the data they give here! If it were true, I'd have moved where they get that data. It's a lie, Mr. Padre, answer the questions and really get to work.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u332	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. Mr Torrido Quintela has the floor by the Socialists' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u333	Thank you, President. The introductory way I'll say we can't talk about Mr. Feijóo. Here you can call the government delegate, who is not a member of this House, but we can't talk about Mr Feijóo, who is not here because he doesn't want to, because he is a Member. [[Applause]] This criterion that you can't talk about people who aren't here is fantastic. Here are 41 candidates for Vigo mayor — systematically, as all candidates for Vigo mayor are going through here — but we can't talk about the people who aren't here — if it's the PP, of course. Especially if it belongs to Mr. Feijóo. If you're not here, you can't mention it. I -- I've ever commented on it -- I think personal idolatry impoverishs. You quote again the Bloomberg Report, a financial — good — which says that the best system — whatever it says we are — is Hong Kong. Your health model is Hong Kong. It's okay if we compare it to what I've been quoting so far, which was Cameroon. From Cameroon to Hong Kong it's hard to know if we're getting better or not. Cameroon and Hong Kong... the truth is I don't have anything quiet if that's the model. I don't know the health model of Cameroon live and I don't know that of Hong Kong, but I don't think they're our models. For you it seems so. And, of course, they're taking some measures that go in that direction: demolishing public attention, demolishing it, and private attention because it's much more powerful. It's okay. He also quoted to support his arguments — the other day, he quoted the Basque counselor, and we can no longer — a doctor. I think he's a primary care doctor -- I didn't take his reference -- from Catalonia. I, being him, would be worried. I guess they won't be able to make you quit anywhere but I'd be worried. And he also quoted -- and this is surprising, to see if he's able to give us the reference to where he draws the data, and we've done it many times we tell him that you bring here data that no one has, that you and the People's Party have, but it doesn't make them easy. See, a report by the Official College of Physicians of Spain says that we are Spain's third worst community in the ratio of doctors per 100,000 inhabitants: 448 per 100,000 inhabitants. The average of Spain is 476, and 448 are in Galicia, the third worst community. And you just said we're the sixth best. I, at the entrance, will not be suspicious of your data, but tell us where you get it from. From the Ministry! [[Mr Vázquez Almuína: Ministry.]] The Ministry says we're the sixth best in the number of doctors per 100,000 inhabitants. Then we'll have to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u334	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u335	Per capita, as a doctor per inhabitant. It's not worth making the ratio for 100,000, you have to do it for 10,000, which is the same, because it's a ratio. The ratios are the same. [[Laughter]] Except that for some we take for 100,000 and for others for 50,000. [[Applause]] But then it's not a comparable ratio, of course. [[Applause]] Because ratios have that advantage, which are comparable. If it had been in absolute terms, no. Make ratios to compare.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u336	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u337	Sometimes there's someone who loves to hear some things. Because it's like he reaffirms it. Because, as your criticisms also define, it's also important that some of the boards call certain things, it's okay. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Counselor, ultimately, you didn't bring anything new here either. There's a problem in primary care and generally in the whole of health care, but we're focused on primary care. You're late, you hear about retirements when you're having the doctor's farewell party, but you have to attend to it first. They're late and they're wrong. And what we've been thinking about is that there's a lot of measures you've discarded, like the diagnostic evidence catalogue that primary doctors can ask for. You have responded to us less than two years ago in this Parliament that have been working on it since 2014. And now the measures are coming and they say they're going to implement it. And all right, see if they really do. You said it wasn't a good analysis of our lack of professionals, and now they say they're missing professionals and they're going to measure it. They said it wasn't a good analysis to say they needed directions in primary care, and now they apply them. Yes, with the PP model: we apply measures but budget, none — it is not going to be effective, of course —; budget, none. How are we going to be able to do more supplementary tests without budgeting? How will you be able to have more staff without budget? How can primary care addresses be taken or someone or several people working in the system — get them to drive and therefore liberals from the care plan — without budget? How is it possible to take any of these measures without budgeting? Because you're charging me with budget for the health centers, which is very good. Like what Mr. Feijóo said we were going to [...] health care to make more personal, but today he said it was for hospitals, which is also fine. [[Intelligible.]] We have made a number of proposals. You denied our proposals, and also with a certain misunderstanding. Ours didn't matter anymore, but all of the collectives denied them later with a certain disparity and now they're trying to go back with that situation. This model is not validated, Counselor. You need people who create in the model you want to go to. Which may have been, if this was a starting point and not an end point, that model would have been more acceptable. But what is obvious is that you — who don't believe in him — cannot defend him. And that's why we think you're not right now to make those decisions and should replace the summit of the entire Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u338	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Close the interrogation by the Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u339	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Torrado, let's see, I don't understand how a person — because of the sectarianism you have — may speak ill of the Spanish health system, which was built by seventeen autonomous communities, where different political parties ruled — among others, their party. I don't think that to attack the PP there's to say that what's good, as Spanish health is, isn't good. I don't think it's receipt. Look, healthier countries: you go to Singapore, you can go to Singapore. No, but Spain is the first healthiest country above Norway, Sweden... I think these are models of which the Socialist Party can say are important, important countries, healthy countries. Spain is above these. In other words, sectarianism doesn't make it possible to accept these things. [[Applause]] It's really something incredible. [[Applause]] To say that I'm being dragged into Parliament is curious. Because I have to tell you that I am the best advisor in this Parliament. And once they call me -- I volunteered, but I also wanted to call me to the investigation committee -- no one from the opposition appeared. So, if they wanted to see me so much, they could go see me at the investigation committee. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to improve, because the spokesperson for En Marea, Ms Eva Solla, spoke this time about the role of the new model. I remember the other time, he was a "pocket," I remember. Look, the paperboard has 6 strategic lines, 41 targets and 175 actions. [[Murmurs.]] I'm lying — as I'm called a liar, a liar — right now I'm 183. Because in the round that we're having with all the collectives we're still incorporating actions into this project. Well, it's a project that shouldn't be so bad when they call us tomorrow at the Medical College to five health advisors in Spain. Galicia is summoned to explain what is being done in Galicia. And, as I say, the Ministry — it started a little later than us — of course, it has similar measures to ours. Mr. Torrado, I'm sorry to tell you but the continuity contract was done for us from one to three years — because it is so, from one to three years — and the minister said two weeks ago that it seemed very good to you and that it had to be incorporated into all the autonomous communities — the Greek —. There we are, Galicia ahead again. Look, from the strategic lines, I'm just going to talk about what's the new model you want to take from the Ministry. We have, as we said, 183 actions. The Ministry proposes 96. But, above all — and most importantly to me — is that we have 75 in the short term; the Ministry, 19. So we're in a hurry. At the rate of optional, stratifying patients, we want a target of 1,400 in the short term. The Ministry, as the president said this morning, goes to 2,025. We believe that we must speed up and take action, of course, to be realistic, and that we can fulfill the goals of all. During the past few weeks, the Health Council has held important meetings to assess the allegations made to the current draft. As I say, we're still working this week. Following these meetings held with working groups, professional colleges and scientific societies for the review of the claims proposed by the nursing, physiotherapy, social work and general services groups, these groups expressed their support for the document —the College of Physiotherapists of Galicia, the Galaga Association of Family and Community Nursing and the Galician Society of Physiotherapy —. [[Coughs]] [[Agefef]] [[Sugafi]] On March 20, a meeting was held at the Council meeting with the Galego Council of Medical Colleges, the Spanish Society of Primary Care Physicians, the Spanish Society of General and Family Physicians and the Galician Association of Family and Community Medicine. [[SEPMERING]] [[Semg]] [[GASPS]] And at this meeting -- there was the meeting physically, we've been working for several hours -- we've reached a number of agreements that are very important. We don't have to say we don't make any arrangements. We've reached agreements. So look: the establishment of a technical committee of experts to meet the challenges of primary care in the coming years; the creation of a primary care advisory council, where all the establishments will be, the scientific societies of all these professional categories and also the citizens; the creation of 60 new squares in the next two years, by 2021, of family doctors for this new model—for what?, to achieve what we want as a goal, 1,400 TSIs adjusted by complexity, and trying to see the objective of attention around 30 patients, the objective prescribed—; to promote the role of the head of service as responsible for organizing the activity; to introduce incentive formulas to the tutor figure. Do you remember there were no measures on the subject of the tutor? There's them right now, in the O.P.E. they're worth it. It is also given a certain time, and it is approved by all medical schools and scientific societies, of course, by doing so. In the coming days, we're also going to make public the number of squares in the different categories of primary care professionals. So it will be, because we understand that this model will improve attention but, of course, it also carries resources. And the Ministry, in the meantime, is not facilitating our work, no. Look, the MIR square call isn't from the Ministry, you're wrong. They are the autonomous communities, within the credentials of the Ministry, who decide the number of IRMs they will have next year, with funding from the autonomous community. Accreditation is what the Ministry doesn't do to us. The Ministry doesn't do it, and it has to. The document of those new accreditations that were announced in the press did not arrive today. Today's not here. But the six pediatric courts, the new accreditations for pediatrics, are sent. Sorry, I was Minister Carmen Montón. I spoke to her, and what happens is that Mr Sánchez's socialist-era ministers do not last long. Because then came the current one. I spoke to the two, and I sent that petition in August. Today we have no answer. We won't be able to form more pediatricians in Galicia because of this attitude. [[Murmurs.]] And we, as I say, keep working. We ask the Ministry what the Ministry can do, which are accreditations. And also, of course, we're asking for the cost of the surplus that this autonomous community has. It is, moreover, of the Greeks and wants to spend on health investment, investment in social policy and education. So make it easy. Look, this is a table, a program budget. This is published and you have to see what the budget program is where special care and primary care appears. [[The Health Counsellor, from the rostrum, shows a chart to the House.]] There they appear, and they appear independent. And it says that 65% of the expenditure is hospitalized and 31.9% is primary care. So sometimes we talk about budgets, percentages and so on. But reality is what it is. And we, with this new model, know that it will be incorporated, but first we define the model and then budgeting, which is what the parties that are in government, of course, are responsible for doing a good health service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u340	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the session until 4:30.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u341	Good afternoon. We resume the session with questions to the Government. Question by Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the opinion and measures envisaged by the Galician Board in relation to the obligation to study the matter of Religion in the Bachelorate
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u342	Let's start with Mrs. Olalla Rodil's question from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u343	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Thanks also to the advisor for making it easier for us to advance this question. We asked you today from BNG about the situation in our country since the implementation of LOMCE. Currently, in Galicia, there is a graduate of bachelor's degree who is forced to pursue the matter of religion to complete the hourly load that is required of him. A student who opts for Robotics, anthropology or Coeducation — which is more serious from our point of view — is obliged to study Religion by an absolutely perverse mechanism that prevents other combinations. And this happens because Religion is, as all of your lords know, a specific matter and the decree in force obliges the student to pursue two specific subjects for the title. This has been denounced by members of the Philosophyal group themselves, in front of the People's Valedora and also before this Parliament. I give you, Counselor, a real example: a bachelor's first student chooses to study as a specific subject Artistic drawing, with three hours, and Co-education as a free self-configuration, two hours; he has to choose religion, because it's the only specific matter of an hour and he has to spend a total of six hours. In the Education Committee — where we also put these questions — the Director-General had the courage — because I no longer found another word — to deny this reality. I have here — as all groups of this House — the registration sheet of the Polytechnic Institute of Vigo, where they warn students and families about the choice of Robotics, Anthropology or Co-education, and point out in the registration sheet: "Imprinting. It can only be chosen with Catholic Religion because it needs two specifics. Royal Decree 86/2015 LOMCE". There's no freedom of choice when there's only one combination possible. We are faced with a situation that violates the student's rights, which is seen in the obligation to pursue a matter against his will; but it is not any matter, but it is a matter of purely confessional character. For the BNG, the Greek teaching has to be public, of course; it has to be scientific; it has to be feminist, of course; and it has to be secular. Therefore, any type of religious confession, whatever belief, must stand aside from the public domain. That's why we ask you, Counsellor, if you are going to defend the Board of Galicia that the Religion disappears from the school curriculum, with the aim of ensuring the actual and effective separation of any kind of religious belief from the public domain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u344	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Response from the Education, University and Vocational Training Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u345	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. You will understand, Mrs. Rodil, that today I repeat the explanation that it is not true that students are forced to choose Religion if they want to complete their itinerary with subjects of an hour, because this matter does not condition more or less than any other. We wonder if the BNG considers a problem the compliance of the regulations, because that is what we are talking about, that there is a problem where there is compliance with the regulations, both the Organic Law on Education and its development and the International Agreement between the Holy See and the Spanish State, which establishes the presence of the Catholic Religion as an area or matter in teaching. You know that, by current state and autonomous legislation, there is a time distribution and curriculum structure adapted to modalities: science, humanity and social sciences and arts, to organize by blocks what is the supply of materials: trunks, generals and specific options, and free autonomic and center configuration. In the baccalaureate, Religion is a specific matter of choice within the curriculum. This means that the centers have to offer religion, but it's a student's or student's decision to study or not. Clearly, it's about making a choice between the materials available within the time frame. In Galicia, in the Bachelor's degree curriculum, the approach was to maintain the hourly load as much as possible to the previous curriculum. In Religion, the hourly load of a weekly, which is as low as possible, was kept in particular. And the centers have autonomy to design the itineraries that they consider most appropriate within their educational project, with subjects of four, three, two or one hour, and so they should play. The centers also have room for manoeuvre to offer free configuration materials to be chosen by the center itself, either their own design or their time of reinforcement of other materials. That is, there is a wide range of materials that can offer centers and allow multiple possible combinations of choice. Depending on these multiple possibilities, each student or student can design his or her own formative itinerary according to what is best suited to his or her interests. I wonder if what we are debating today is that BNG or other parties and collectives feel themselves with the power to consider incompatible the Anthropology-Religion or Co-Education-Religion combination and get more authentic or more legitimacy in their opinion, to the point of denying the autonomy of the centers and the freedom of the student to make their decisions and their combinations. In any case, the Council's position is to comply with the current legislation, which since the beginning of democracy establishes that the teaching of the Catholic Religion will be adjusted to the one established in the Agreement on Education and Cultural Affairs between the Holy See and the Spanish State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u346	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u347	Thank you, President. You can be sure that what we are questioning is precisely the incompatibility of running the matter of Coeducation and at the same time that of Catholic Religion. He didn't have the slightest doubt. I'm telling you directly, in case in my first intervention there could be some doubt, and I therefore reaffirm the position of the BNG. [[Applause]] I'm stopping the BNG has to be out of the academic curriculum. He has to be out because he belongs to the private realm. Respectable, you have to ensure that you respect him. No one can be persecuted for his ideology, none, nor for his professing religious belief or confession; but he has to stay out of the public realm. There must be a strict separation between the public and religious beliefs, which are and belong to the private realm. And in that separation, confessionality is necessary. I'm not telling you secularism anymore because the Constitution of 78 is what it is, but that necessary confessionality must therefore be guaranteed our position is that it has to leave the classroom. But still wanting to respect that agreement, if you don't want the board of Galicia to be belligerent with the Holy See and bet — as the BNG does — for taking religion out of classes, you have... because I insist, how is there freedom in choice if there is only one possible combination? And I repeat to you the registration sheet, where the center itself has already pointed out that, by this absolutely perverse combination of two specific subjects and six hours that you have to necessarily study the student, you can only choose Robotics, Anthropology or Co-education along with Catholic Religion, even if the student, voluntarily, does not want to study that matter. What I propose, Counselor, and what we set up from BNG to Galician Union, is that, if they don't want to eliminate the religion from the curriculum, they take the necessary measures to make no student feel obliged. And they can do that, they can remove the obligation to run at least two specific materials, give specific consideration to other free-configuration materials...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u348	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u349	...or offer some more matter than just Catholic Religion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u350	Close the question, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u351	Thank you, President. The truth is that those who do not want to be belligerent with the Holy See are not only the members of the Government of the Unity of Galicia, but also the Government of the Spanish State, who do not want to be belligerent with the Holy See. Mrs. Rodil, the truth is that they speak of a supposed obligation — I insist — to pursue the matter of Religion in the Bachelor's degree when it is not so, and therefore they ask about measures that must be taken by the Council of Galicia in respect of which they are not needed because there is no such obligation. Perhaps there wouldn't be much reflection on his vision of things and his attitude. The reality is that there is an organization of subjects in curricula since the fulfilment of the prevailing legality, about the autonomy of the centers and the conviction that the student has the right and capacity to choose those subjects that are closest to his or her personal interests, to his or her educational interests. And from the point of view of legitimate political differences — as I said well — you will understand that you are told that nothing benefits the Greek teaching that every time, and especially by matching certain periods, some formations use the agitation of exclusive flags or ideologies. The claim that the Catholic Religion disappears from the school curriculum with the aim of ensuring the effective separation of this belief from the public domain affects a decision that implies the amendment of that pact between the Holy See and the Spanish State, not the Council of Galicia. As it does, of course, also happen with regard to agreements with the authorities of other religious confessions. And I must also remember in this plenary, as was done in the last 4th Commission you were talking about, that the presence of religion in teaching is in all the educational laws of democracy. Also in the educational bill passed by the Government of Pedro Sánchez, paralysed at Congress by the early election. In the face of utopias, in the face of the claims of indoctrination, the German Government, within the competences it has assigned, is developing a differentiated educational model, which enables the formation of the Greeks and the Greeks of the 21st century. We are aware that the educational process is indeed diverse, multidisciplinary, inclusive, community, interactive, multilingual, but we believe in compliance with the current legislation, we believe in the autonomy of the centres and we believe in the freedom and capacity of people. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u352	Thank you, Counselor. Let's resume the agenda, interpellations. Interpellation by Mr Francisco Casal Vidal and three other Members of the G.P. of En Marea, on the policy of the Government of Greece in relation to employment in the telemarketing sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u353	To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u354	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. The first thing we want to do is to greet the workers and workers in Bosch who accompany us today, and, of course, to transfer all our support to them and to all the workers affected by this unfair situation in which they find themselves. We've come to ask you about a very important issue, which is the telemarketing sector, and we hope today's answer is clear, because the truth, after hearing the voices of the People's Party in the morning's GNP, we don't have a lot of hope, because there's quite incongruence between what they say they're going to do and what they're going to defend and what they do after, because today they voted against supporting these claims. As I said, this sector is very important, it gives work to around 10,000 people in our country, most women. It is a sector that is overcome by precariousness, and, like so many others, it takes time to see how every time the situation in which they are found is worse and is getting worse and worse. Today, despite being a fundamental sector, the conditions of exploitation remain and are totally intolerable. Low wages, frozen for a long time or with insignificant rise, taking into account what these companies earn, which does not stop increasing invoicing in recent times. The salaries are around 900 euros, but this is just for days of 39 hours a week, which, as you know, are the least. Most of these workers and workers work 30, 25, 20 hours, or even less, with wages of 600 or 700 euros. Therefore, the possibility of reducing this wage, or even this wage, given the benefits that are being paid each year by these companies, is an insult to these workers. In addition, there is a very important wage difference between workers who work directly hired by the company and subcontracts. This is something where you have to put your hand. We have talked about this on many occasions in other sectors of work. You can't allow ETTs to contract fraudulently; it's a reality that happens in our country too often, without doing anything at all. It's a sector where there's a very important psychological pressure, where workers are forced to coerce, and where there's a very high level of repression. Complaints, in this sense, are public and well known, and trade unions have been seeing this reality for a long time, not only in this workplace, but in many other workplaces. In addition, speaking to you about a question on which you are always concerned, which is conciliation, I would tell you that, when you talk about conciliation, look, for example in this sector, at which most are women, how you will reconcile — that word that you like so much — with the level of precariousness that there is, with the changeovers a few days in advance; how you will reconcile with the permanent uncertainty that they can be thrown into the street with very low compensation. So when they talk about country realities, when they talk about the reality of employment in our country, we have a feeling that they're talking about parallel realities that nothing has to do with what workers and workers live. On the other hand — as I say — millions of benefits are patented. There's not a loss of profits, but it's going to increase, but, increasingly, the relocation that these companies make to other countries is evidence. And this relocation is done because there's no government doing anything to stop it. There are things that can be done, but what they have to have is political will to apply them. It's not acceptable, especially when we're talking about companies, many, they're charging public subsidies and so many others who have contracts with the Administration. That's why the minimum requirement for these companies when we're giving them public money is that they generate quality jobs, and if they go, they return every euro they got from the public archives. As I said, one of the companies we asked about is Bosch, who's in Vigo. You know it's very important for Vigo and the county, which gives jobs to more than 1,600 people; it's the second company that generates more jobs after Citroën. We are concerned because, despite our recent approval of an initiative by the Industry Committee in support of the demands of these workers, there are two issues that seem alarming to us. The first one is that they're always late. It seems that until they are in the media, until the opposition asks and insists on this subject many times, you ignore what the workers are demanding; it seems that there is no such thing as that. We've been with a problem of precariousness for a long time, we've been with policies that impoverish the social majority of our country, and they don't seem to have a moment to think, a moment to make a minimum of self-criticism. And the second question that seems very alarming to us when we talk about this is that they continue to vote against, systematically, issues that are fundamental. One — as always, and I insist again — is the theme of labour reform. They returned to vote against the repeal of labour reforms. And as long as they don't do that, as long as they don't have the political will to overturn reforms that are being so damaging to the social majority of our country, we believe that we have no debate with you, because nothing they say in favour of labour rights will be able to carry it forward with this current legislation. That's why we expect them to stop saying so many times the good intentions they have and move on to the facts. We believe that a first key step is to banish these labour reforms, and there are many others, but the speeches, of course, will not solve the employment problem that our country has. The employer, like so many others, has no negotiating will. And he has no negotiating will because he knows he's impunity, that he can practically do what he wants administrations to be always supporting on the same side. Because you often have that equidistant position between companies and the representation of workers, but when there's a different correlation of forces, getting in the middle is getting on the aggressor's side. It's not fair when we're talking about things that don't have the same strength, and you know it perfectly. As I say, the file is already being carried out after a period of consultations in which the documentation delivered was totally insufficient, and we hope that they will begin to take action today. Today the spokesperson for the People's Party said that the only group that could best support Bosch's workers was the People's Party. So we say: well, if you're the ones who're going to support it, do it at once, let's stop saying words and repeat that they're defending quality employment and they're going to do something to defend it, not what they've been doing in recent years. They didn't do anything to avoid Vodafone's ERE or to alleviate its consequences. They haven't done anything in all these years because the reality of precariousness in the sector is not new. ERTE in Bosch is a novelty, but precariousness is not a novelty and they haven't done anything at all. There has been no industrial planning in this country since the People's Party ruled. So the question we're asking them today is whether this time they're going to do something to paralyze this ERTE in Bosch or they're going to continue with their usual leave in recent times. It affects six hundred people. You know that two hundred have been fired, hired by ETT. And the arguments are false. That's why we agree with what the company's own staff says: it's a scam and it's a totally unjustified ERTE. And there are a lot of questions that can be asked. You know, for example, that the company is refusing to bring workers back to other departments, even though it recognizes that they might need staff in these other departments. But everything seems to indicate that they will hire it externally. So our question is whether you're going to look somewhere else this time, whether you're going to promise things and not do anything, or whether you're really going to take this problem seriously to solve it. Because we think they're always telling a fake story, a story that doesn't match what most of the Galician families live. The supposed economic recovery they repeat did not arrive at the Greek homes. People have a lot of difficulty reaching the end of the month; they have a lot of difficulty paying the rent; they have a lot of trouble reconciling. Most people have to have two jobs because with that salary they can't afford to pay the minimum conditions. And the job that has been created — they're always saying that they've created a lot of jobs — since work reforms is a lot worse job, much more precarious job. What happens in Bosch is not an isolated fact, and we want to emphasize it because it's not an isolated fact, it's just another speck of what we've seen in recent years. There's a dismantling of the German industrial fabric, but you do absolutely nothing but say that nothing happens and that the government defends employment. Galicia's been losing a job for a long time. It's been a long time for workers and workers in this country to lose rights, and that's the reality, as much as they're trying to deny it. Today Bosch's strike is compounded by the demands that many people are taking forward in Atento, in the Coruña; it is summed up by many demands that have been on the street for a long time and that are not being heard by this Government. And it adds, in short, to all those demands that want to end with the model of exploitation which is the current model of employment in Galicia. What they haven't done with Vodafone's ERE, they can do now in this case. We think they're making it very clear which side they're on with their policies. Well, we ask them to take the workers' and workers' side this time and change their course once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u355	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u356	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Quinteiro, an empty speech of content, as always. A speech that you simply qualify but does not support with official data. And, unfortunately, a speech that is far from reality. He knows perfectly well that this government is working and developing an economic policy and an industrial policy focused on quality employment. And you know perfectly well, in addition, that the issues you are asking were discussed last Thursday in Commission 6 and that most of you, Mrs Quinteiro, were supported by the People's Parliamentary Group. He knows, and here he said the opposite. And it is good enough that the Galician and this Government have listened to all the proposals that have been put forward in this Parliament and are acting as labour authority and administration. In fact, the honourable Member — and I report to you concrete actions that we are developing — we have reviewed the documentation that was presented by the company and we have also asked for the correction of shortcomings. We call for the realization of all training actions for the affected workers who, as you know, demand the Statute. We are following all external contracts that are being developed in the various campaigns precisely to follow up. We have been in touch with both the Enterprise Committee — the General Employment Secretary will have the opportunity to hold a meeting on Tuesday, April 2, as well as with the company itself, and you should know that this company has different sections and that nothing has to do with the situation in Galicia with which you have in other countries. Finally, Your Honor, the difference we certainly have between En Marea, the Government and the People's Parliamentary Group is precisely that different view of how economic policy should be promoted, how industrial policy should be promoted. But, of course, the Government continues to work from the very first moment without changing its position, taking the initiative. And, of course, this Government, Your Honor, which does not answer, is no partisan calculation. We respond to the general interests of Galicia and the needs of the workers, but we also act realistically. It seems that you come here as rapporteur, simply with a rhetorical reductionist of good and bad and without facing with realism the reality, seeking, Your Honor, concrete solutions to each situation. Therefore, the Government has always been with the workers and the workers without making any distinctions, working to ensure the fulfilment of their rights, always listening to what their representatives transfer to us and promoting negotiation and dialogue. I understand that you don't differ between social dialogue and equity, because it seems that clearly you don't want to see it. In any case, we keep trying to give answers, logically, listening to the workers themselves, and we've done it with all the companies that require help from Galicia's board. We've done it with Poligal, we've done it with Isowat, we've done it with Vulcan, we've done it with Vodafone... in all cases, Your Honor, the Council of Galicia is working alongside the workers to find realistic solutions. And, of course, we will continue to work with the Bosch workers to also find those solutions that allow them to face this situation of enormous difficulty. What surprises me — and I have to transfer it with transparency — is that you use this Parliament to transfer a number of proposals and that your parliamentary group says otherwise in Spain. It's very curious! It's very curious that you come here as a more spectator of the reality we have in Galicia, on a subject that is of state competence, when you and your leader, Pablo Iglesias, signed a pact in October to exhaust the legislation. My question, Mrs. Quinteiro, is how after ten months have you not been able to adopt in Spain a single measure of what you come to propose here this afternoon? It would be nice if you could explain it to the workers and to the workers for whom you spoke this afternoon. But, of course, what is interesting is that I come here to put forward proposals which cannot be adopted in this Parliament, and in Madrid, where you, who are still part of the Government of Pedro Sánchez, were unable to adopt them. In short, they have not approved the new budgets, they have not adopted any kind of measures that you are now calling for in this Parliament. [[Murmurs.]] Finally, Your Honor, I am sure they can still make decisions, which they would count on with the support of this Government, precisely to adopt measures by means of decrees-law, they are approving us every Friday. Do you want to explain to us why those measures that you demand are not being taken? Finally, Your Honor, I don't think you can have a speech in Galicia and a completely different speech in Spain. And since we are talking about employment and the situation we have in Galicia, I invite you too, because you have talked about the lack of employment in Galicia and the dismantling of the industrial fabric, which is curious, Your Honor!, but I have not heard a single word from your parliamentary group in support of Ence, I have not listened to a single word from your parliamentary group supporting Elnosa's workers and I have not heard a single word of support from your parliamentary group to the more than twenty-seven thousand jobs that are at risk precisely because the Government you support is not taking measures from the point of view of energy policy, and therefore, measures directly affecting employment in Galicia. In short, Your Honor, you can't have a speech in Galicia and another different speech in Madrid, you have to be consistent. [[Applause]] What we're doing since Galician Union is acting in the specific case of the needs of Bosch workers. We're acting since the Labour Inspectorate because it's our responsibility, and therefore controlling through the Labour Inspectorate, raising the records and imposing sanctions when breaches are checked. You know we're doing it both with Bosch and with all the telemarketing companies and all the companies in our industrial fabric. He knows perfectly well that we are acting in the spirit of social dialogue. That's not fairness, that's agreement with economic and social agents to find solutions in the issue of equality, in the pay divide, in conciliation and in all the measures that enable us to boost our productive fabric. He knows that we are acting through active employment policies, increasing aid to businesses and being absolutely strict in fulfilling the commitments to be made by the companies themselves that receive aid. And you know we're working for a quality job, which you don't want to talk about. You don't want to talk about industrial policy in this Parliament, you don't want to talk about new technologies, you don't want to talk about digitization, you don't want to talk about innovation, just because you don't have any sort of industrial policy proposal, and unfortunately, the sad thing is that you don't have any energy policy proposals to ensure the competitiveness of industrial fabric in Galicia, which is currently threatened, among other things, by the support your group is moving to the Government of Pedro Sánchez. In short, Your Honor, they don't play the title. Galicia, in the field of industrial policy, in the field of employment, does not need holders, needs proposals, needs action. And, of course, what the Bosch workers don't need is that you come here to make a notary. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u357	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u358	It shows very little respect coming here to talk about anything less than we asked him. We have not come to make proposals today, but do not worry that within 15 days, or in the next plenary session, they will have the proposals and may vote on them. Today we came to ask you to answer, and you talked about everything but the company. And, bearing in mind, at least I should answer. And you didn't understand me -- or you didn't listen to me, I don't know -- and I already know, and I mentioned that you approved an initiative -- which is ours, by the way, it's not the People's Party -- to defend the rights of Bosch workers on 21. But they voted against such basic points as meeting workers and workers. We're glad they're going to pick up the phone now and have a meeting, the other day they voted against, we don't know why. They voted against derogating labour reforms, and voted against today this morning. I don't know if you were told that this morning, in this plenary session, if you spoke of Bosch in a non-law proposition, and the People's Party Group voted against. So, I don't know, what you didn't know, I think it was you. Then explain, if you have time, why did you vote against today this morning, which were the arguments, if you so much defend the company and both defend the workers. The only speech away from reality is yours. I don't think he knows the reality of the country's workers. I don't know if you worked in a company someday, but I don't know if you think 600 or 700 euros can be reached by the end of the month. I don't know if you think wages of less than €900 are decent wages and quality jobs. If you work part-time, if you work with rotating shifts that warn you 48 hours in advance, if you have psychological pressure, if you have coercion, it's quality employment. If you're unemployed for six months and you're working for six months, that's quality employment. Because the job that the People's Party generates thanks to the latest labour reforms is that, and besides, it doesn't create any more jobs, there's no industrial policy. Don't lie. Talk about how many industrial workers we lost between 2009 and 2018: 22,000 less people in the industry. What job did they generate? They're not very good at making the accounts — I think — because there's no such reality. There's less work, and besides the job is much more precarious, so the only thing that manipulates is you. The only reality is that work reforms have favored it is to facilitate redundancies, to further reduce wages. We're talking about companies that are making a lot of millions, that are having millionaire profits and are paying for misery. Companies that are condemning the most extreme precariousness of workers. It's nothing new, and you guys haven't done anything at all. It seems that the People's Party has never ruled, neither here nor in the state. It's a surprise. We must have a very bad memory, but they've been ruling for many years without doing anything in defense of workers and workers. In fact, all the reforms, all the legislation that you passed, was to systematically go against the rights of workers and workers. So, what job do you generate? What job does the People's Party defend with those reforms? It seems to us that it is quite entrepreneurial that he comes here to teach lessons of nothing. A minimum of self-criticism, a minimum of telling the reality in our country, and not talking about a situation that no one believes, is that no one believes it. Today we're talking about telemarketing, which is a particularly feminized sector, and they love to have the word feminism in their mouth and March 8 in all the defense of quality employment. Then they're going to talk to the feminized sectors, see what work conditions all women have in this country! Ask them how they reconcile, ask women who earn 600 euros what they do to make it to the end of the month. Ask those who have jobs for weeks, months, or even days; because there are many women in our country who work for days free. But that doesn't exist, the People's Party says everything is wonderful. All the mobilizations that are on the street, the workers who are right now on the street by this ERTE, those who have been on Vodafone Street, those who are on the street every week in Attento, invent the problems. The ones who had Unisono, the ones who were and are EXTEL, all these workers, what reality are they living? Are you telling all the workers who lie? Do you think they want to be mobilized? Or will they do it because they're demanding minimum rights? And instead of listening, the only thing that's dedicated to making headlines is you, saying that Galicia is doing much better. When Galician data, since you rule, say we have a lot less job, that we have a much more precarious job, and people have to emigrate. People are having enormous difficulties reaching the end of the month with a minimum wage worth. There are a lot of people in our country who have a lot of work, who can't have life, who leave one job and go to another and have no chance of having a minimum life, of leisure. That's the reality, and the only thing that's dedicated to making headlines instead of coming here talking about the problem we're dealing with... it seems very strange to me that I didn't mention other companies. We are talking about all the companies that we consider, and in fact today we are talking about other companies that affect this country. But today's interrogation was to ask him if they were going to do something with Bosch, specifically with this company. And you refused to answer this question. He didn't have any respect for the people he's listening to, for the people he's been this morning mobilising and on strike, who've been on strike for weeks. And he's still coming to say he's doing everything he can! How do they do their best if they haven't met with them yet? If you still have a meeting on April 2nd! It just didn't start today. Today they are in this plenary but it didn't start today. The problem of these workers and workers didn't start today.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u359	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u360	They refused to approve it five days ago. And you can ask — if you're asking — about the morning GNP. Let's see if he explains why they voted against the non-morning bill, because what was misinformed today was you. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u361	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Close the gap, economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u362	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Quinteiro, two simple ideas. The only point this Government did not vote in favour is the amendment of the reform to work. You know that job reform you can change. It's been ten months and they haven't touched a single job reform article, that's the reality. [[Applause]] Can you explain it? [[Applause]] [[Applause]] You know perfectly well that almost all companies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u363	Mr. Lago, with all due respect you heard the counsellor speak to the person who intervened before, so do you the same. It's just that this is how to fit in, too. Yes, yes, this is the parliamentary game. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Debate... yes, but we all have to be able to fit in. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So let's listen to what the counselor says.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u364	I think it's important that this House and all of Bosch's workers know that the legislation you are asking to change is from a national point of view to a large majority, Your Honor. That's the reality. So you can ask — and we are doing it — to the Council of Galicia to act in the spirit of its competences, and therefore to act through the Labour Inspectorate, to act through the Galego Institute of Consumption and Competition, to act also through social dialogue, to act through different active employment policies, and that's what we're doing. What you can't do here is try to move the idea that the Galician Union is not supporting its proposals, which would give a solution, when those proposals are a change to the labour reform that you are unable to adopt in Madrid by supporting the Government of Pedro Sánchez. That's the reality, and, Your Honor, what you can't do is come here trying to confuse. And we -- as I told you -- if we're acting, and proof of that -- put it back in my intervention -- are that I moved everything we're doing with Bosch's file. I moved him as we're monitoring the file, as we're monitoring its execution, and as we're in touch with the workers first, and, second, with the company as well. And the second idea, if I may, in addition to trying not to confuse with regard to legislative changes, particularly through labour reform, is that you know perfectly well that you are not legitimized to talk about industrial policy, you know perfectly well. What they can't do is to come here and defend some jobs and not others; it turns out that there are first jobs and second jobs. And when you tell me about the industrial employment situation data, I'd ask you if you talked to the workers at Ence; I'd ask you if you talked to the workers at Meirama; I'd ask you if you talked to the workers at Elnosa; and how the answer is, in all cases, that I don't think, frankly, they're not legitimized to talk about industrial policy. [[Murmurs.]] You're telling me about Bosch's employment regulation file. In fact, he knows that the company has reduced the affected people by 200, he knows that he has committed not to apply the suspension in those services where there is external staff working through the ETTs, and he also knows that there is a plan to look for relocation in other areas that had an increase in workload. And, of course, you know -- and I'm moving you -- that since the Labour Inspectorate we're demanding the realization of the training actions linked to the activity of the workers affected. So this government is acting, this government is defending the rights of Bosch's workers and workers, and so we're going to work, with all intensity, to defend their rights. You tell me about female employment. He knows perfectly well that in Galicia we have 480,000 women affiliated with Social Security, who represent almost half the total and who are three points more than in 2009. You know that female affiliation has increased last year by 2.13%. And you should know that six out of ten employees have an indefinite and full-time contract and that in Galicia we are reaching the lowest female unemployment rate, in a month of February, of the entire historical series. It's data that you've hidden and that unfortunately reflects a reality. Galicia is recovering her position on the job. We must continue to improve, there is insufficient progress that has been made, but, of course, we are going in the opposite direction. And you, unfortunately, are still here trying to look for a headline and just look for a reference from the media point of view, and so neither employment nor industry is fixed in Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u365	Thank you, Counselor. Let's go back to Question Time to the Government. Question by D. Marcos Cal Ogando and D. Antón Sánchez García of the G.P. of En Marea, on the forecasts of the Galician Union regarding the student's demands regarding the implementation of urgent policies against climate change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u366	We are now continuing with the question of Mr. Marcos Cal, of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u367	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Today we bring up an urgent question about climate change. As you would see in the motivation of urgency, we do this after the student's climate mobilizations, especially on 15 March, of the 15M climate, because we understand that the demands of citizenship must occupy a central place in the parliamentary debate. But we could well justify urgency at any plenary session and any day, because we're talking about a tremendously important, tremendously serious and tremendously urgent issue. We could urgently bring initiatives on climate change yesterday, today, tomorrow and for the next decade because we are facing a crisis on which the future depends, and above all the future of youth. That's why they raise their voice and point out governments — as you represent — as those responsible for the current situation, for bringing us here... I don't know if you're interested in what I'm asking you. I'll tell him because he's talking to the other advisor. Yeah, but what I'm saying isn't what's written. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't know, it's a question, it'll have to be pending to answer, I say. I say, a little decorating! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u368	No, you don't worry that I see you're attending.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u369	I say, if you want to attend, I'm saying things that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u370	Don't doubt he's paying attention. I'm aware you're attending, don't worry about it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u371	...and I'd like you to pay attention to me because it's your responsibility, for that, to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u372	Quiet. You ask the question, you leave time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u373	This youth demands a change in course and urgent measures. The situation is critical, if we go to the data. Since the pre-industrial era, the increase in the average temperature on the planet exceeds 1.5 degrees, with the result that the reaction is evident: the increase in water temperature; the acidification of the oceans with the consequent destruction of marine biodiversity; the increase in sea level; the increase in extreme phenomena and natural disasters such as hurricanes and floods like those we suffer in Viveiro there is very little; droughts like the one we have also suffered in Galicia a year ago and fires. The big fires have increased by 200% in 2017, increasingly devastating and uncontrollable, as we know here in Galicia, and we have already suffered its effects and its environmental, economic and even human life costs. We're not talking about a future problem anymore, we're talking about a present problem: climate change is here and we're suffering from it in Galicia as well. These climatic consequences result in the life of the planet with destruction of flora and fauna, with hundreds of species that disappear or are placed in very vulnerable situations each year or with the growing and unbearable reality of climate refugees and shelters. The European Union recognises that 258 million people are sheltered from climate; that is, we speak of 251 million people who had to leave their homes because of climate change. But this problem doesn't just occur in the global south. In Spain the temperature has risen 1.6 degrees over the last fifty years, twice as much as in the rest of the state; 74% of the ground is in the process of desertification and within fifty years 94% of the land on the Iberian Peninsula will be in the process of desertification. If the melt of the poles raises the sea level three meters, the question that the climate simulators give as real, the city of Coruña, for example...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u374	Thank you, Mr. Cal, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u375	...it would be totally drowning, and ecosystems like the Low Rias will disappear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u376	No, your time is up, Mr. Cal. Thank you. That's it, your time is up. You know the question of counsel. Thank you. Your time is up, Mr. Cal. You know the mechanics. [[Applause]] Respect all of this. You know how we deal with these questions, please. Response from the Environmental, Territorial and Living Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u377	Thank you, President. Mr. Marcos Cal, you know that I am always attentive to each of the questions that you can ask us, what happens is that I first read the question and, of course, bring the answer, and it is not necessary for me to be looking after you, even though I seek to do so. [[Murmurs.]] I am perfectly aware of the importance of the world movement, a movement that is not only global, it is a movement that is also local. There's a motto: "Think global, act local." That's the motto of the Galician Union, which, of course, thinks about climate change and is concerned about climate change, just like the Greeks and the Greeks. It's a student movement, it's a movement of consciousness, it's a movement, besides, that we defend, it's a movement to which we hold our hand. It's different if I was wondering if it had to be on school hours or not, and since I have a child of those ages, I'd say that it's better off from school hours, that it goes to class and after it shows up, but I'm sure I agree with them. Especially because they're our future and they have to be more conscious, perhaps, than we were before. We are aware that we have to work with youth, that we can all together achieve a more sustainable world; and the administration doesn't go alone, the administration goes with them. You asked what they were going to do, and they almost came to say they're not doing anything. And you know it's not real that we're not doing anything. It's a phenomenon that is an unquestionable reality and that is already having effects on our community, as it also has global effects. Let us be alert, for this is shown by the obvious transformations that are suffering from our climate. We've been working on this phenomenon for years, and we've done it cross-sectionally. I can tell you, in 2011, I report that it will collect for that period the realization to comply with eighty-four measures with an associated investment of more than thirty-five million euros. According to the 2012-2015 report, it includes a compilation of one hundred and three measures developed by the Galician Union, which involved an investment of more than one hundred and forty-eight million euros. Subsequently, in 2015, we published five sectoral reports that provided for the collection and development of relevant information on adaptation to climate change. In 2016, a report on climate change in Galicia with updated data, policies and actions from Galician Union. We believe it is essential to have the participation of society, especially of the younger. The generation that will assume the...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u378	Thank you, Counselor, your time is up. Thank you. Your time is up. He's got another shift later. Thank you. That's it. [[Applause]] Replica, Mr. Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u379	Yes, Counselor, you worry so much, you're so worried about climate change. They always announce it but never enough. You say they act locally. His intervention was perfectly predictable, totally predictable and, from my point of view, irresponsible in the face of the problem we are facing, because the situation in Galicia with regard to its contribution to climate change is very serious. Galicia produces three points more greenhouse gas per capita than the average state and two points more than the average of Europe. That's the reality. You come here saying you're doing a lot of things, but the reality is what it is. You act locally. You're a defender of acting on site. Well, I'll tell you what the local performances you've done and what they've contributed to climate change. The two key areas for action against climate change are mobility and energy, I suppose we agree with this. Well, you're in the field of energy what you're defending is that thermal power stations are open forever, that they never close. That's what you're defending, when you assume 30% of the greenhouse gases in Galicia, but you don't want to make an energy transition. What they're defending here in Galicia is that the thermals last all their life, when they should be working on a plan of retraining work in the area, seeing the energy transition as an opportunity and turning industry into production of clean energy. But you don't do anything, and in the end, what happens is that the workers are out of work -- that's what's happening because they haven't done anything for all these years -- because, in the end, who decides whether or not to follow is the electric oligarchy at the time they're interested in, and you haven't done your job. You're the sun tax. Who do you want to fool? You're the sun tax. You're the boycott of the renewables; you're the boycott of the renewables. Is that acting locally? You act locally in favour of climate change. I don't know why the sun tax is a question of the People's Party. I don't know if the 258 million refugees are funny. Maybe it's funny about this. [[Murmurs.]] Well, you defended... I don't have time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u380	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u381	I hope you guys do something if you don't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u382	Your time is up, thank you. Thanks, time's up. Peche, Environmental Advisor, Territory and Housing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u383	Thank you, President. The truth is, it's hard to know how one has to behave or one has to behave before these gentlemen of En Marea. Look, I do it with all due respect, but I'll be able to smile, especially when you're saying we're one of the communities that most greenhouse gases are being emitted, when we're actually from the five communities that have less greenhouse gases. So I have two options: either to laugh or to cry, and they believe that I still have many hours left to work and I'm not going to cry, I'm going to continue to work for climate change mitigation. [[Applause]] I can tell you initiatives such as Climate 2017 and 2018, where they participated from politicians, researchers, university students, students and students who shared with us the ideas that are now in the design of the 2015 Climate Change Strategy. By the way, it was published on 15 March, its public information procedure was initiated and you — instead of saying what you should not — are now at the time of contributing to the best possible and consensus of this strategy. What are we looking for? Advance towards the year 2050 in climate neutrality. That is to say, getting greenhouse gas emissions that cannot be eliminated — because some cannot be eliminated — is compensated for the absorption of natural environment gases. You said we're the ones who don't want to opt for renewables. Look, if anyone criticizes renewables, they believe you are. What we say is that we have to make an orderly transition, and you can make a orderly transition. But what's the strategy? If you read it, you would know that, on the one hand, it seeks to increase the participation of renewable energies in the energy mix; promote energy efficiency in all sectors; change urban areas to a more sustainable model; promote research and innovation or conserve, restore and use ecosystems in a sustainable way. That's what the Climate Change and Energy Strategy 2050 is looking for which, as I told you, was published on the 15th that you can make your contribution to, and in which more than seven hundred people participated, at six sectoral tables, they came to know what the world is what they want, which Galicia is what they want, and that Galicia is what we try to develop in that strategy, which is public. Our forecast is to count on the official documents of the strategy in June and the first operational plan for its final approval and implementation. However, it's a living document and I invite you to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u384	Thank you, Counselor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u385	...if you get to work on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u386	Thank you. Question by D. Antón Sánchez García and D. Marcos Cal Ogango, from G.P. of In Marea, on the evaluation made by the Galician Board of Data reflected in the technical documentation associated with the application for authorisation of rainwater vegetables from the Bama ferry, incorporated into the Touro mine project
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u387	Question by Mr Antón Sánchez of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u388	Good afternoon. Every step that takes the company and every new data that appears shows more the true face and the real consequences of the activity that is intended to be carried out in Touro: a predatory extractive activity, which seeks as much business as possible as possible at the expense of the common good. For companies such as Atalaya Mining, Copper San Rafael or Gallegas Exploitations to do business with megamining it is essential that they outsource environmental health costs and it is essential to have complicit administrations that allow it. The summary of this kind of business is the benefit to them in a short time and the costs to others and forever. We don't want that future for Galicia neither for Touro nor for O Pino, and neither does the neighborhood of Touro and O Pino want it, because they know more than anyone else that the promises of strict compliance for you are wet paper. They know that, since the closure of the previous mine in 1988, what has been left was constant pollution into the middle and the streams of the surroundings by non-restauration, and they know that the People's Party has constantly tolerated it. In the documents presented by the company Exploitations Galicians for the reopening of the mine, they try to invisibleise the reality of the project, but each movement sees the seams to its intentions; an example of this is what motivates this question. Two relevant information is displayed in the Bama ferry dump authorisation document. One, the implicit recognition of the constant permitted contamination, which has existed for thirty years, of the streams of the environment, since it is recognized the need to manage and treat running running water through the surfaces affected by the previous mining activity, which are called raw waters, which contain high polluting loads. And, on the other hand, other relevant information contradicted what is stated in the reopening project, since this contamination is due to the fact that, according to the company, almost all of the materials are potential producers of hyperacid water systems, and by less than 10%, only if it has been separated from the rest of the materials rich in reduced sulphur, it could be considered that the risk of hyperacidification is minimal. And in the reopening project, instead, they say that 50% of the materials are potential producers of acid drainages and 50% of the materials are not, which would be used to make the huge rafts projected. And they lie because they can't tell the truth. The truth is that what is being considered is destructive at the environmental, health, social and economic level, less for them, of course, and that's what they have to disguise. But you're still supporting these kinds of projects. Counselor, why don't you already give this project a folder? What are they waiting for? If the impact of mining activity before 1988 has caused the damage we know, will it be assumed the impact that will bring a much more savage project, with two strips of sterile 95 and 125 hectares? Why do we have to pay for the damage caused by others who earn, whether in Touro, San Fins, Santa Comba or Monte Neme? Counsellor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u389	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u390	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u391	Thank you. Response from the Infrastructure & Mobility Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u392	Thank you, President. Mr. Sánchez, today he is taking an initiative that is not new, but today we are addressing it from a more sectoral perspective: the quality of water. Well, the Galician Union, as far as water quality is concerned, we will always defend and we will continue to defend strict compliance with laws and also the highest environmental demands, as we have always seen; and of course, it is not wet paper, as you want to interpret. I think it has to be said that there are two very different issues in this Touro issue: what is the old Touro mine, with concrete actions, and that project of future mining, which can only be carried out when technical reports, which scrupulously look at sectoral regulations and laws, are complied with with environmental guarantees. You refer to a supplementary documentation of the discharge authorization from the bama ferry, the cut, the so-called bama cut. I'm telling you that it's not new information — I think you should already know — and it doesn't refer at all to the same kind of material in that new mining project; I'm sure you know it too, though it seems like you want to mess up. So we're talking about an area affected by a mining activity of the past, and what they're taking are concrete actions to alleviate possible conditions in the middle. What happens on time with rain episodes? Well, there are overflows. So, what does Galician waters do? Sailing by law rigorously, Mr. Sánchez, rigorously, because water technicians will understand that they know more than me about water and compliance, but also more than you. There is therefore a rigorous pursuit of any indication of environmental impact; and, of course, we will act and act the Water Technicians. So we watch for compliance with the law, we watch for the quality of the waters in Galicia, and we work to minimize the impact on the medium receiver at all times around the old Touro mine. And I urge you, Mr. Sánchez, if you break the law, don't shake your hand, open sanctioning files, as the Galician Water Technicians say. So in the last year, we opened 80,000 euros on sanctions. Of course we're doing our job, Mr. Sánchez, but it's amazing that it brings me an initiative to talk about the quality of the waters by seeing the concern of their party mates, the tides of Podemos, for the quality of the waters, for example, in Santiago. The mayor doesn't care very much: no undisturbed debugger, no deadlines, no funding. So we don't care about the quality of the waters of the Sar River. Ferrol is the same. If it gets to be the mayor of Ferrol, we'd still be waiting for the Malate sanitation. As bad as I was there in Galicia to push! Therefore, in the quality of the waters...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u393	Thank you, Counselor, your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u394	...they're sleepy and light to teach lessons.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u395	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u396	Some of the Bull's neighbors are here. Ask them if you're an expert in strict compliance with the law. Precisely, Counsellor, the People's Party has for thirty years tolerated the contamination of Touro's surroundings; it is a total complicator of this contaminating activity of the company. You haven't answered, because the ferry for which you are now asked, thirty-three years later, discharge authorization, has been running for years and years with contaminated, hyperacid and high-polluting water, and you haven't done anything. Like it's not the same material? The material is the same in that area, amphibolites, cysts and paragnesis, the same material that will produce the acidification of water and the release of heavy metals. Of course, when it starts mining. When they're under the ground, of course, they don't acidify, but when they start mining. Sanctions, Counselor. They started moving you after many years of fighting the neighbors and neighbors, who were the ones who did the work that you had to do. You, while you were complicit in the company's activity, for years you haven't opened any sort of sanctioning file on your own, you have allowed water to be contaminated, and only after many complaints from neighbors and neighbors — who have been treated as suspects when they are exemplary neighbors who fight for the future of this country — you have moved, after the mobilization of thousands of people who do not want this future that you promise them: that companies come exploiting our resources for fifteen years and leave there a source of perpetual contamination, which are the rafts that you intend to leave in the Touro mine project, of 125 and 95 hectares, a threat to the lives of people, for health and for the environment. You can't even give a lesson in strict compliance with the law because you were absolute accomplices to the delitiva activity of this company,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u397	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Close the question, Madam Infrastructure and Mobility Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u398	Mr. Sánchez, no accomplices! You think you're complicit in imposing 80,000 euros on sanctions in one year! I want to see what Mr. Martiño Noriega would do for not doing the debugger. I don't know if he's fine to himself. Perhaps you should fine yourself for being an accomplice to affect the Sar River. So nothing to see... [[Applause]] Do you think you're an accomplice to put 80,000 euros in sanctioning files because that's what water technicians say? So here we are to comply with the laws. You'll understand that the laws are to be fulfilled. To me, of course, I would be very worried that you would rule, because if you think that authorizations are taken away or you put yourself in the way of everyone's vanity...! We're in a rule of law and procedures must be complied with. Too bad you don't rule, because if it's discretionary authorization or not of any matter related to water quality! Discretional and illegal, and you're trying to break the law [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In any case, you're not complicit. You'll be an accomplice to what you want to be an accomplice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u399	Silence, Mr. Sánchez!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u400	Of course, we are partners in law, law enforcement and water quality; pressing the company so that it will not be poured into the area of the old Touro mine and ensuring the quality of the waters. And we will not agree, because we are a conca organism, because we are responsible for the waters of Galicia and because so demanded by the technicians of the waters of Galicia, who make the reports, independently, Mr Sánchez! I don't know how reports are made by the powerful tide technicians. Galician Water Technicians, with their independence and fulfilling the law. I insist that the reports can't be made in any way. You're sure he's giving instructions to the technicians so they can do it at their own expense. Here, in this council, reports are made legally, complying with the law. The Galician Water Technicians — as I say — know more than you and know more than I do. So what they do and what the Galician Water Technicians say, scrupulously comply with the law. And if you want to talk about the environmental impact statement, the result will be the corresponding of all sectoral reports that are made in accordance with environmental legislation. We will not support projects that are bread for today and hunger for tomorrow, we will only support responsible activities, quality activities, activities with maximum and full environmental guarantees. And look, I think Galician Waters, in water quality work, I think it's more than proven, though — as I say — to be municipal competition as well. I think you should know about it and talk to your comrade Martino Noriega. We have mobilized more than a billion euros in water. You don't care about the quality of the waters of the Sar River! In any case, it has been more than 1,100 million euros since 2009 in terms of sanitation and debugging and nearly half a hundred debuggers. So in integral water management we're working, and in prevention of deterioration. For lessons to others, they are light; to do their work, totally asleep. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u401	Thank you very much. Question by D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the measures envisaged by the Galician Union to resolve the situation of auxiliary companies affected by the payments of the Vigo River naval sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u402	To put the question, Mr. Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u403	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, Mr. Conde, the BNG asks this question to speak of the naval situation; especially of the victims who left the naval crisis on their way, especially in the Vigo stream. We have come to speak to the U.S. Government of the Loss of Labour and Economic Activity, of more than seven thousand jobs since 2009 in the main companies in the sector and in the auxiliary industries. We want to talk about all this, and, above all, we want to talk to you about a real social and human drama. We bring to this Parliament the voice of small German companies and autonomous people in the Morrazo affected by the failures of the naval companies. At least, we're talking about twelve companies, Counselor, who are desperate. They have come to this Parliament calling at the doors of all parliamentary groups because they have shut all the gates of the Galician Union. They're twelve small companies — they're actually more, but they're grouped into a platform — affected by the wages of naval companies, which owe them more than five million euros, and in which more than 500 jobs have been lost. It's companies and people who, without any fault, it turns out they had outstanding debts to collect, and the ones that Dozenda and the banks are claiming payments, which caused them to be living a real skull, a real nightmare, with the entrance into competition and property embargo. It's a social and human drama that adds to the loss of jobs, because these people lost their homes and other assets for debts with banks that received billions of euros. It is absolutely obscene that they have debts pending payment and embargoes of their income. People who suffer from physical and mental illness, who suffer from insomnia, stress, anxiety. Several people who are here in this Parliament have suffered several infarctions from this situation. And some of them have already died and have left their families in possession these debts. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of this dramatic situation, and when you see that you're begging for the ship's recovery, it turns out that the joint's doors are closed for these people. They asked the president of the Union for three interviews — I have the papers here — in three years: 2017, 2018 and 2019. But these requests for interviews ended in a paperwork. This is absolutely indecent! You're the Industry advisor, and you didn't receive them either. You have a great opportunity today to correct this contempt and abandonment. You have a chance to receive them because they're here today. Face it, Counselor, and speak to them at the end of this questioning session. And tell us, and personally tell these people who came here to listen to you, who will do to fix the dramatic situation they are suffering, without any guilt, in an absolutely unfair way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u404	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u405	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Bará, first of all, logically, all the sensitivity to the workers affected by the situation of the competitive process, and therefore the situation from an economic point of view and from a personal point of view, which is extended to all the workers and to all the companies which, unfortunately, have to go through a contest and assume the consequences, often negative. So my first words are in this sensitivity, both with these affected companies and with other companies that also in Galicia are affected by similar situations. What I don't think is reasonable is to have to listen to your political myopia, when you want to talk about the status of the naval sector and refer to the situation of the year 2009 with respect to the year 2018. In fact, the whole naval sector has gone through a lot of difficulties, and I think the sector as a whole deserves a respect that you didn't move in your intervention. We do, because we did put ourselves to work to find solutions when the sector had the problems of tax lease; when we proposed solutions to innovation, training and internationalization; and today the naval sector enjoys a clear recovery, with dozens of shipyards and 138 auxiliary companies that are allowing to develop new contracts, which currently have a turnover of 2,000 million euros. However, it is true, Mr Bará, that some companies have not been able to go back to those difficult years; companies in the naval sector and companies in other sectors. But I think there are two dimensions that I understand we have to differentiate. A strictly legal dimension and another political dimension. And, of course, they have nothing to do with each other. You feel comfortable — I know — with the political dimension, so surely you and your group continue to turn their backs on Cence when a decision is made by the Government of Pedro Sánchez and they put at risk, between the Government and the groups that support this decision, 5,000 jobs. But coming back to the subject, the platform you're pointing out has been attended to by this board. It was attended in 2017, it was found that what they asked for was inadmissible and that it could not be assumed by the Administration, and it was transferred with transparency from the board itself. We don't know if the situation has changed. They've re-asked for a meeting, this very week they'll be welcomed by the director of the Igape and, if there's any change with respect to 2017, of course, there's no doubt that we'll analyze it and see it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u406	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u407	But in any case, we will not ignore the prudence and responsibility we have to manage public funds. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u408	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. For the reply, Mr. Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u409	Counselor, you spoke of sensitivity. Do you know how sensitivity is shown? Receiving people, talking to her and giving her solutions, explanations. By watching her, paying attention, not clearing her up and closing her doors. [[Applause]] And he knows that this question we asked him today has already been useful, because after more than two years without receiving them, they've been called. Curiously, he calls them the Government through the spokesman of the Moaña People's Party. What a curious representation of the German Government! [[Applause]] How do you use the institutions! To call you to a meeting, do you know when? This afternoon, so that you can't come to Parliament, that's how you act. Igape's manager doesn't have to go, they're here. You can receive them, you can attend them right at the end of this session. I'll come with you to talk to them. Yes, yes, they're here. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You don't have to go to Moaña, they're here. [[Laughter]] Look, I want to ask you very specific questions. Will you listen to us? Are we going to take care of this? Will they give human support and institutional support? Second, will you provide technical and legal support? Because they're going through a situation -- I told you -- desperate at the human level too. Sexy sensitive. They deserve at least this attention, not that they take the paper to the stationery with their requests for an interview. Thirdly, are you going to study the possibility of forgiveness of debts with the Administration? These companies, these people, are living a skull with this situation, a nightmare of what they don't have to blame, because those who have the debts with them are those companies of the naval that you're going to crochet and those that give them a lot of subsidies. Will they condition the aid of the naval to pay the debts they have with the auxiliary companies? Finally, another question, will they avoid situations of abuse that continue to suffer from these companies — those that are still under-contracting — by the naval companies, who ask them to forgive all their debts to continue working and blackmail them violently? Are you going to eliminate those practices, Counselor? We know what the priorities are: jumping as a springboard to defend the privileges of Ence, the illegalities of Ence, and leaving the small and medium-sized companies of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u410	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. For the Government's replica shift, the Councillor for Economics, Employment and Industry, Mr. Conde López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u411	Mr Bará, don't be nervous about this government... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u412	Mr Bará, Mr Bará, when you spoke there was silence and everyone heard him. I beg you to do the same and to listen to who is in the use of the word, please. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u413	You shouldn't be nervous, you should know that this government knows how to distinguish perfectly what the government is and what the party is. You clearly don't know. [[Murmurs.]] Calm down, Mr Bará, if I'll answer you. I insist, this government knows how to differentiate what the government is and what the party is. At the moment he called from the Government and met with the Government, and at this point they called from the Government and they will receive them from the Government. If you want to come here to confuse and transfer that you do confuse the government with party... unfortunately, that's what they did in the Bipartite, but fortunately, we're not in the Bipartite anymore. But what the government won't do is commit itself without knowing the details of what these companies need today. That would know the government directly, and I've already transferred it to him, if there was any change in the situation of these companies with respect to the situation they had in 2017, we'll evaluate it. But we, Mr Bará, what we are not going to do is what you intend to move here, which is to make commitments without really knowing what the situation is. In any case, Mr Bará, we will continue to work with companies, and I think the sad thing about these kinds of situations is that you come here to confuse yourself. I think you should not look — which is what you usually do in your speeches — for confrontation between territories, between workers and between companies. Don't look for confrontation, Mr Bará, because so, of course, neither Galicia nor the workers nor the workers will find solutions. What you can't ask the Government, Mr Bará, is impossible or illegal, and you know it. If you come here to ask this Government for illegal or impossible, of course you won't find it. You have experience, I remind you of Alfageme and I remind you of how public funds have been squandered. This government will act at all times with responsibility, also with sensitivity, but above all with realism and making an efficient management of public resources, because the public resources, Mr Bará, are all of them. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u414	Thank you very much, Counselor. Da Eva Solla Fernández, G.P. of Marea, on the changes introduced in the recruitment requirements of the land-based emergency health transport service in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u415	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Solla Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u416	Thank you, President. Once again, we bring again a question of health that is essential for our country as is health transport, which, as your honourable ladies know, has also been the subject of questions and interventions by our group recently, in recent months, and also in Commission 5a, where we have been interested in the alleged case of corruption that is being investigated in the courts in relation to the adjudication of the 2014 concert, but also because of the working conditions that unfortunately suffer the workers and workers of the 061. We are very pleased that a pre-agreement has been reached. It's also true that the agreement is not yet signed and there's a new meeting on Monday to see if there's a rapprochement on the part of the different parts. It's also true that fraudulent contracts are kept in practice, that we believe they have to be eliminated so as not to fall into a situation like in Aragon, with that judgement of the Social in relation to the character contrary to the right of these types of contracts, but we believe that it's okay, after several years without agreement. What happens, Mr. Almuña, is that in order for this agreement to be met we need the concert that needs to be signed right now with companies, which you know we defend that it is going to be made from public health, but if you are going to continue to be ready through subcontracting, do not make it easy for entrepreneurs to take off after the collective agreements have been concluded. In this sense, in the last signed concert we have to move — we have done so on other occasions — the shortage of the amount that prevented, in some ways, ensuring by the Galician Council that labour rights would be met, and therefore we do not understand at any time how a concert could be signed, in this case, at the bottom. You published in the European Bulletin, initially, the first information. Unfortunately they haven't published the rest of the information on the public procurement page, and therefore we don't have access to it. And today we want to know what conditions these new concerts will be offered with different companies because workers and workers today do not know about them either, and it's important to be clear what these conditions are going to be so that at the economic level they will allow to maintain the agreements that are being negotiated right now between the unions and employers, and also with the Council of Galicia. We also want to know whether within these conditions you expect more vehicles to exist, because we have already told you that one of the demands on the staff was that vehicles are insufficient, and we have to remember here the use of fully uncontrolled support ambulances, which are used to deal with all kinds of emergencies and which we denounce. And we also want to know if that's going to be contained in the next prayers or in the next bids.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u417	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. The health counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u418	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Earth's urgent health transport, agreed by the Galician Public Health Emergency Foundation 061, is a service that guarantees to all Greek citizens the accessibility, fairness and efficiency of high-quality assistance. It's a service provided by magnificent professionals. A service that reaches high levels of satisfaction by users, with an average service score of 9.3 on a scale of 0 to 10. It is therefore, of course, a service that all citizens of Galicia value positively. Since its inception, the Outpatient Emergency Service of the Autonomous Community of Galicia has the main objective of ensuring the accessibility, fairness and efficiency of urgent health care and of the highest quality to the whole of the population of Galicia. Acquiring these goals is not a result of chance, but of the work that the Public Health Emergency Foundation of Galicia 061 continuously carries out, assessing demographic changes, changes in health demands, needs and activities of the different districts and municipalities of our autonomous community, with the ultimate aim of improving urgent health care and bringing technological advances closer to our citizenship. Our emergency response times are among the best in Spain, and we continue to be pioneers in the implementation of programs aimed at improving emergency care, often replicated by the rest of the state's medical emergency services. These are some of the qualities that endorse our current management model; a model that, of course, as I say, there are not many places in Europe that have a model as accessible as ours. This is a high-quality service, the service most valued by the Greeks among all who offer the Galician Health Service to citizens; a service that demonstrates every day, and sometimes in truly complicated situations, their professionalism and their ability to respond. But the Public Emergency Health Foundation of Galicia 061 continues to carry out a continuous assessment of the demands, needs and activities of the different districts and municipalities of Galicia to assess the need to expand, redistribute or, ultimately, improve that urgent health transport network in the assistance it provides. You speak of the question that he is a commercialist model. Interestingly, it's the model of 16 or 17 autonomous communities, so if we're traders in Galicia, we're also in the rest of the state. And, as I say, the whole state is a much more accessible system than the rest of Europe. And we're going to keep working, logically, on those prayers so that the next four years the service will be even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u419	Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez Almuinho. For the replica shift, you have the floor to Mrs. Solla Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u420	I, Your Grace, would ask you a little respect and answer the question you have in writing and that I have just formulated quite objectively. After his answer, in which he practically gave us a summary of what you usually consider to be the ambulance service, he didn't transfer us to what the terms of the recruitment bond would be, and I'm telling him it's not a ballad theme. Obviously, we would prefer that this service was one hundred percent public, and that's why we have brought -- I think there were two full -- a non-law proposition to propose that before the imminent victory of the current concerts, because they are coming in October, you, instead of giving a privatized service again, draw a public service. You voted against it, the People's Party voted against it, and said that it was inadmissible, that they didn't even want to study it, and so from now on, you have an obligation to conclude this service again, because I have to remind you that within a few months the contracts that you have in force end, and that if we are again in agreement with companies that don't guarantee minimums in order to maintain the collective agreement, which also does not improve the employment situation and therefore does not improve the health care currently being provided, we are going to have a new work conflict on the table, we are going to have new problems in the proportion of the service, so you should realize these conditions here. The workers are careful, they're not here, but they know this question is going to be asked. I spoke to them earlier and, of course, they want to know if the fleet's vehicles will increase as we ask. By the way, we present amendments every year to propose the number that we consider, of course, on the basis of isochrons; there are isochrons more than thirty minutes in our country, indications of the need for advanced vital support and basic vital support at different points in the country, of different vehicles. But we also want to know whether these new agreements with the different law firms are going to allow it to end with precariousness and allow amounts to guarantee compliance with the collective agreement. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u421	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. For the Government's reply, you have the word of the Health Counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuína.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u422	On January 30th, at the parliamentary headquarters, I appealed to the responsibility of the parties, companies and workers to reach agreements that did not cause disturbance to public health users. Basically, we understood that in such a sensitive service, care should be taken to ensure rights, and I think those requests are very reasonable. Last Friday, as you all know, the health transport workers in Galicia on strike ratified the agreement with the employer, which means the suspension of the indefinite strike to claim that new collective agreement. Of course, we are pleased that an agreement has been reached because we understand — as we say — that this service has to continue to give the quality level that has been given all these years. Logically, we have that period to go over all the nails and do a nail in the best way possible. And I have to say — despite what the honourable Member says — that in the previous competition, four years ago, companies were presented even below, so we understood that the calculations were well done. On this occasion, of course, we will do — as we did at that time — the study also quantifying the last agreement and logically following what marks us the regulations, which is the Public Sector Contracts Act. We must do so using a plurality of adjudication criteria based on the best price-quality ratio, which will be assessed in line with the economic and qualitative criteria. Of course, services are the first to be valued, but also the working conditions of workers. This agreement, this agreement, is about to be signed. The idea is that the next day is done. And from there, logically with advisory reports, with general intervention reports, the publicity will be approved and released. Logically, we're not going to make it public today when all these legal procedures are missing to do it. As I say, we are going to comply with the law, we are going to follow all the procedure laid down in Law 9/2017 of 8 November on public sector contracts, so that the legal order of Community directives is transposed. So, Mrs Solla, I understand you have an interest in getting to know him, but logically we're going to follow the legality strictly, ensuring that he always sees the Health Council, which is the highest quality of the public health service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u423	Thank you very much, Mr. Almuña. Let's move on to the next question. Question from Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the evaluation by Junta de Galicia of the impact of the elimination of the Valdeorras Health Area on the quality of health care at the Comarcal Hospital of Valdeorras
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u424	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u425	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. Counselor, let's start today for something that's almost Sesame Quarter. From Ourense's hospital to Valdeorras' hospital there's exactly 115 kilometers traveling around the sinuous N-120. About an hour and forty minutes is the time that this shift takes. My colleagues and colleagues today are well aware of this plenary session, mayors and concellers from the district of Valdeorras of the PSdG. I remember him, Counsellor, in the same way that he did in a recent judgment the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, which condemned the Government of Galicia, the Council of Galicia, for forcing pediatricians who were in the Ourense hospital to make guards located in the hospital of Valdeorras. I mean, guards located where they have to be in 20 minutes when they have to travel a distance that takes an hour and forty minutes, a real fear, for both professionals and patients themselves. In case it wasn't long ago, we learned that you now want to provoke and promote the forced mobility of these doctors as well. I'll give you the PSdG request to withdraw that measure, this occurrence, which you just had these days. [[Applause]] Random and non-continuous guards that are not only given in the Pediatrics service, but also in Hematology. Even at Christmas home hospitalization was suspended for the lack of, for example, Internal Medicine doctors. There's a lack of surgeons, a lack of anesthetists, a lack of support doctors in the transfer of urgent patients... all this and much more is the result of the elimination of the health area, a removal that has caused the recentralization of Valdeorras to Ourense, but there is also a recentralisation of Ourense to Vigo. And I'll give you an example. If a child or girl, for example, of the municipality of Veiga, has a problem and has to undergo a pediatric surgery one Saturday evening at 5 p.m., she has to travel, passing through Ourense, more than three hours until she gets to Vigo hospital, because there is no pediatric surgery 24 hours in the Orense Hospital Complex. If what you have is a problem, an infarction, and you need hemodynamics 24 hours, as there's no hospital complex, a neighbor or neighbor, for example, from the Bolo, it takes you another three hours... more than three hours, to get to Vigo. In Valdeorras, Counselor, what you want is a first-rate hospital, they don't want a second-rate clinic, which is what you're doing. To do this, what you have to do and the measures we propose are that you fill those vacancies, restore the recently eliminated Health Area and urgently approve a new master plan for that extension of the Valdeorras Comarcal Hospital. And, I'm telling you, a dignified director plan, don't come to me with ridiculous games or games as you recently announced, with a very similar amount to what it costs only the public hospital cartels that are putting all over Galicia. [[Applause]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u426	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanco. The health counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u427	I again greet the occasional PSdG Health Spokesperson, because when we arrive at the electoral time we are changing from spokespersons to health almost as we change our dress. [[Murmurs.]] Since the Health Council we have been working to meet the needs and solve the problems of patients in the nearest place to their home. That's why we strengthen comarcal hospitals by improving their ability to resolve and the services they provide. Our maximum, with the change of law, is precisely bringing the services closer to the citizen. The district of the Valdeorras Boat maintains and will maintain all its material and human resources. Precisely the reform of the Health Act aimed to ensure by law the care activity in the comarcal hospitals, ensuring the portfolio of services to the patients of comarcal hospitals, solving the difficulties in fixing professionals and generating a regulatory framework that lays the foundations for coordination of personnel of resources that have already been done since the integrated management agencies. In addition to the maintenance of care activity, it shows the improvement in quality and success of this organizational model of inter-hospital coordination is the offer, directly from the Comarcal Hospital in Valdeorras, of previously non-existent specialities, such as Neurology, Dixestive, Endocrinology, Rheumatology. In addition to the extension of Cardiology and the establishment of the Hospitalization Unit at home and palliative care, avoiding the transfer of patients to Ourense to follow these treatments or to consult in all of them. Also known is the great operation, thanks also to the head of service in the entire area of Oncology, Dr. García Mata, of the Oncology Day Hospital. Assistance coordination, new techniques and improvements, that's what we want for this hospital and for the other county hospitals. High-resolution consultations, a unique act of Cardiology and Digestive, e-interconsultation of Cardiology, Dixative, Neurology and Ophthalmology; expansion of the portfolio of surgical services of Urology; deployment of rapid pathways of colon cancer, lung, breast, larinx, bladder and prostate cancer; in addition to lumbalgia, dementia and melanoma; implementation of the self-control programme of anticoagulation by the patient at home, without need for displacement. By the way, Ourense — also Valdeorras' boat — is one of the most innovative projects in most cases. Pharmaceutical coverage of health care homes in Valdeorras by the Pharmacy Service of the Comarcal Hospital; extension of the service portfolio of Surgery; implementation of the high resolution consultation of Proctologic Surgery. If you look, if you were really as the spokesman of the Socialist Party, it seems to be closing, and, curiously, the activity of the Comarcal Hospital in Valdeorras in December 2018 allowed 2,417 surgical interventions, 3,288 revenues, 65,906 consultations and (...)
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u428	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u429	Therefore, it seems that the activity of the Comarcal Hospital continues to grow and increase quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u430	Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez Almuinho. Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u431	Thank you very much, President. Counsellor, the health spokesperson for the Socialist Group is Mr. Torrado. I am a Member for Ourense, who exists, just as Valdeorras exists, so I ask this question today, Counsellor. [[Applause]] You say this is our thing, don't you? No, the PSdG doesn't say it, they're saying it by the institutional representatives of the People's Party in the district of Valdeorras, in a motion put forward by the mayor of Veiga, where point 3 says, "The Valdeorras Boat Hospital has the personnel needed in a stable way to maintain basic health services so that all the neighbors are properly cared for." Counselor, the mayor of the People's Party reminds you that you have to attend them properly, as he says in the motion, after meeting eleven times with you, eleven times! Say it to the candidate of the People's Party of the Boat, who calls for improvements to health. And that's what the PP is asking for, that the hospital won't lose any services. Tell him your comrades and companions because you are alone, Counselor, along with Mr. Feijóo. Because your mayors don't believe more in public health than you do, they've got the neighborhood betting on the doors of their city halls knocking and saying, "What are yours doing in Santiago that aren't able to give us decent health services in this area?" What are they doing? [[Applause]] You're going to become, Counselor, you're going to turn into the real graveyard, the public health buryer in Valdeorras. And you're going to go to history as the buryer of public health. [[Murmurs.]] And I don't know why the Members of the People's Party are so sorry, because we have been listening to insults to ministers and ministers of the Government of Spain as well. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Look, Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u432	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u433	...starts, once and for all, that expansion of the master plan. And please don't go back to Valdeorras to sell a delivery table of EUR 19,000 and a change of kitchen floor of 90,000 after this complex has been without construction since 2002.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u434	Finish it, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u435	Counsellor, a hospital worthy of a region that exists and a citizenship that deserves it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u436	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u437	Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u438	Thank you very much. Mr. Vázquez Almuína has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u439	Obviously, talking about burial in health is very tasteful, but, well, the truth is, it has us used to it, it's not weird. [[Applause]] Look, we're not just talking about activity, we're talking about results, and results are waiting times. The Valdeorras Hospital has a half-time waiting surgery of 37.6 days, and no one expects more than three months; of course, in Europe few districts can say the same thing. The average surgical waiting time of activity 1 is in three days; in external consultations, average times, 34.5 days. But we're used to it because at least right now they say we want to turn the Valdeorras Boat Hospital into an outpatient clinic, but a few years ago, also in an election campaign, they said we were going to close the Valdeorras Hospital; they spent the years and it looks like we're not going around. This organizational model to which the new Health Act provides normative support helps to solve the usual difficulties in many comarcas — not Galicia, but Spain — is a problem of the comarcas hospitals across Spain — to cover their optional staff frameworks, especially in certain specialities that do not have professionals available in the labour market. Or they opt for higher population health centres, preventing the timely absence of a specialist from affecting the daily care activity or patients. Thus, thanks to the Health Area of which the district of Valdeorras is part, it was possible to maintain assistance in the specialties of Traumatology and Internal Medicine—as previously spoken—. In the case of Traumatology, an optional with contract left the hospital, but thanks to the work of the rest of the faculty and the support of the faculty of the Ourense Hospital of that specialty, the basic activity of this service could be maintained. If it was isolated, if it was exclusively a health area, the hospital in Valdeorras would have difficulty covering that square. In the same way, Internal Medicine, after the departure of two optionals with a place on property due to a transfer to another region of origin, the basic activity of this service could again be maintained thanks to the work of the voluntarys of the Valedorras Boat and the support of the optionals of the Ourense hospital in the coverage of the physical presence guards. In this context, the Health Area has allowed, in a compromised situation, to maintain the basic activity of both services; or, more specifically, the activity of guards, which at no time has been reduced. Ladies and gentlemen, the new Health Act did not close the comarcas hospitals, but we worked to improve them. In particular, at the Valdeorras Hospital I know that a million euros is just as small as the honourable Member, but that is what we are going to invest immediately. In fact, we are already with finished performances: laboratory works and installation renovations. Running is the installation of the new vertical laminating flux cubicle and the restructuring of the PAC-Emergency area. And we're going to carry out the reform and expansion of the Oncohematologic Day Hospital and the Dixative Area, the renovation of the clean pharmacy rooms, the functional plan of UTPR...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u440	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u441	...the reform and expansion of reception, the reform of external consultations, the reform of the archive, the reform of the kitchen...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u442	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u443	...and the performances of plumbing and air conditioning facilities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u444	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u445	One million euros in very few months to keep it growing and improving...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u446	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u447	...the Comarcal Hospital of Valdeorras. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u448	Thank you very much, Mr. Almuña. Let's move on to the next question. Question by José Manuel Rey Varela and ten other Members of the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, on the forecasts of the Government of Greece regarding the creation of a reference unit for diagnosis and advice on the pathologies related to exposure to asbestos
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u449	To put the question, you have the floor Mr. King Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u450	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Counselor, Ferrol is a city linked to shipbuilding. In the 1970s, railway yards in the Ferrol River employed about 15,000 people; 15,000 people who used asbestos very often. This material, as you know, is also a material used in construction in the 1970s, 80s and 90s in a way very different from what happens now fortunately, as well as controls for their elimination. As you know, asbestos affects the pleura, causing its thickening, and over time compresses the lung and makes breathing difficult. We have in Ferrol, in the whole area of health, many cases of asbestos and cancer caused by asbestos. Companies did not provide the necessary security measures for workers who manipulated asbestos, and they did not know, for many years, their effects. The Spanish Society of Neurology and Thoracic Surgery, Separ, published a regulation entitled Recommendations on the diagnosis and management of pleural and pulmonary disease by asbestos. These facts make it necessary, from our point of view, in a city like Ferrol, a specific post-employment surveillance unit of workers who have been in contact with asbestos. And Sergas has established minimum safety and health provisions applied to workers at risk of exposure to asbestos. At this time, according to these protocols, more than a thousand patients are followed in the asbestos consultations of the University Hospital Complex of Ferrol, and an even greater number of these thousand are followed in health centers in the health area. The high incidence of this pathology, as well as the experience in managing it, requires the creation of a reference unit that responds to this demand by many people, to this demand by many families, and to the demand for claim, also for many years, of entities like Agavida. Because of the importance of this, have the Government of Galicia considered the creation of a reference unit for diagnosis and advice on the pathologies related to exposure to asbestos?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u451	Thank you very much, Mr. King Varela. To answer that, you have the word of the Health Counsellor, Mr Vázquez Almuína.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u452	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is I'm aware of the sensitivity of the Ferrol area with this problem, a very important problem. Since the Health Council we have coordinated two different activities related to the pathologies derived from exposure to asbestos. On the one hand, the addresses to the workers who are active, with special monitoring, and, since 2001, through the comprehensive Health Monitoring Program of the workers who were exposed to asbestos — as you well said — with limitations, because at that time there was an important ignorance about the pathology that could result. In Galicia, since 2001, we have developed a program with the following activities. On the one hand, drawing up a record that included both the active workers and those who were at the bottom of the company, always with the idea that a correct diagnosis and early management are key points for the disease prognosis. Point two is a specific post-exposure follow-up program. For this purpose, letters addressed to both professionals and all concerned workers were sent, which should be evaluated with the object of starting medical recognition, indicating which pathologies detected should be derived from the hospital for follow-up. If you don't find pathology, do it in the field of primary care. For the follow-up to assistance activities in this area, the EOXI of Ferrol was set up as a follow-up commission for the worker program exposed to asbestos involving various trade unions and the Agavid patient association, the Galaga Association of Victims of Asbestos. This association is also part of the Advisory Council for Patients of the Ferrol Health Area, which was formed a few days ago on 23 March. Active participation and collaboration in this association are facilitating improvements in the follow-up of these patients to the present moment. Given that almost all of the cases are concentrated in the health area of Ferrol, a specific schedule of these pathologies was created in this hospital and a neurologist and other health personnel were hired — exactly one nurse — bringing together all the patients who had pathologies derived from exposure to asbestos. I would like to highlight the importance of Dr. Carmen Diego Roza, who is precisely part of the group that made this Separ report and since 2002 is working on this unit, I think in an exceptional way. Currently, in this hospital consultation are attended annually around 1,050 patients, who generate 1,100 consultations, 1,077 respiratory function tests, 193 computerized tomographs and 608 chest X-rays. In addition to the care activity, the professionals of this hospital report for requests for disability, disability and recognition of professional disease; necropsies when, unfortunately, the death of patients; expert activities in social trials; preparation of scientific articles and reports in congresses and also participation in multicenter national studies, in relation to the pathology related to asbestos...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u453	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u454	...and occupation in general. And since just a month ago, specifically on February 8th, the Directorate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u455	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u456	...General of Health Care issued the resolution to establish the Diagnostic and Counselling Unit...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u457	Thank you very much, Mr. Almuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u458	...in pathologies derived from exposure to asbestos. Thank you very much. (Applause)
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u459	You have another shift now. Thank you very much For the reply, Mr. King Varela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u460	Thank you very much, Counselor. I want to thank you for the specific schedule on this problem for many years -- a problem that has caused a lot of pain to many people and their families, in fact. Our recognition also to the doctors and the technical team, because with their training they are moving forward in that specific agenda and in that unit which, indeed, was a very important demand for Ferrol and for a region of 200,000 people who have on this subject a very special problem I'm sure that, with this step ahead you just announced, we will be able to go along in the long term. I would like to thank you for this, and I would also like to take this opportunity, Mr Counsellor, to thank you, despite the municipal obstacles, which have unlocked the extension of Ferrol's health area. The truth is, we've also been talking about many years of the master plan, many years of investment, but you and the government have changed their words in fact. Many doubt the facts, but governments have to present to citizens. In this case, in addition to 57 million euros of investment, which is the most important health investment we have had in Ferrol in the last 40 years. Therefore, thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u461	Thank you very much, Mr. King Varela. For the Government's reply, Mr. Vázquez Almuína has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u462	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As I say, on February 8, there was very little time ago, the General Directorate for Health Care issues in a resolution the formal character of beginning of the activity of the new diagnostic unit and counseling of the pathologies derived from exposure to asbestos, of reference, in addition, for all patients protected by Sergas. Not only will it be a unit for the Ferrol area, it will not be a unit only for the area of the Coruña province, but it will be a reference to the Sergas level. The objectives of this unit are considered strategic, therefore, to promote the culture of excellence and continuous improvement; to guide activity to the needs of patients and users, ensuring equity in the healthcare process; to improve the development, involvement and satisfaction of staff through cooperation; to seek the learning and innovation of research and rational use of ICT; to achieve excellent care coordination with primary attention and coordination with other actors involved in the process, such as the Galego Institute for Safety and Health at Work or the National Institute for Social Security. Improve accessibility and expand the service wallet, perform new technical tests, and increase the unit's technological development. In addition to increasing the efficiency of this unit, which will be referenced to the level of the Italian domain, establishing alliances with other services both internal and external, among them, the Thoracic Surgery Unit of the reference center through multidisciplinary teams. Of course, improving the visibility and projection of the centre and ensuring the safety of interventions, in addition to encouraging high-level clinical research, because it is important to diagnose and treat, but also to investigate these processes that, as we said, are especially concentrated in the area of Ferrol. We will already strengthen this unit with the recruitment of a new pneumologist and also a nurse, a nursing care technician and an administrative assistant, with which, in a couple of months, it will be fully functioning, following the stage of the activity that has started in Ferrol since 2001. It's an important improvement for Ferrol's health service, but also for Galicia. And as the honourable Member said, for us, it is of course important that the change we are making in the health of the area of Ferrol is fundamental. We understand that hospitalization needs to be improved, we need to improve emergencies, we need to improve many hospital services, but the primary care in this area is also within our projects, and they're not words, they're already invested money, because there's a zero phase of all that is the expansion project, and now we're -- as I said -- waiting for the procedure. Since the Ferrol Town Hall wasn't able to give us a municipal license, we're going to follow Law 3, the law that's already applied on some other occasion because it's impossible for the county to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u463	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u464	So soon more realities for Ferrol. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u465	Thank you very much, Mr. Almuña. Question by Da Marta Rodríguez Arias and eight other Members of the G.P. Galician people, on the balance sheet made by the Galician Board of Development of the Nelson Mandela programme, of inclusion and social integration of persons in prison
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u466	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u467	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, good afternoon. Galicia has a program called Nelson Mandela, for the reintegration of prisoners, which has been developing for the last ten years in Teixeiro criminal. The purpose of this program is to facilitate their re-integration into life free both in the labour and family aspects. This Nelson Mandela module has an inclusion team made up of three professionals, who are involved not only in designing these insertion routes, but also in organizing the developers. The results, over these ten years, have been positive in the integration work of the people who are about to get the third degree and regain their freedom. Galicia, therefore, is a pioneer and represents a reference to the rest of the autonomous communities in working to facilitate transit to the freedom of the imprisoned population. The European Social Services Network has recognized this programme as an example of successful social intervention in active inclusion policies. In addition, a delegation from the European Commission visited this module with an interest in the project, and received the recognition of Central Government Penitentiary Institutions. So, Counsellor, after ten years of development of the Nelson Mandela program, what do you evaluate, since the Galician Union, of its operation?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u468	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Response from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u469	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. For the work of the Greek Government to be of the people who most need it to be really useful, you have to get to where those people are, and one of these areas is prison. People leaving prisons have a high risk of falling into an exclusion situation, so preventive action is needed to prevent this from happening. That is the goal of an innovative initiative that is developing the Social Policy Council, which is the Nelson Mandela program. This program has been developed at the Teixeiro Penitentiary Centre in the province of Coruña for ten years, with a contrasted and internationally recognized success, as I shall comment later. In the Nelson Mandela module, inmates are prepared for later life in freedom. Those who freely decide to participate in the initiative and are admitted to the module have custom family integration and socio-laboral integration routes. In addition, the Nelson Mandela program does not end once the prisoners are released from prison, but at that time the post-penitentiary follow-up network is in operation, which operates in coordination with the municipal social services, with the entities working in the field of social inclusion and also with the eighteen comarcial social inclusion teams available to the Social Policy Council through the consortium. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the people who make possible the Nelson Mandela Program: three technicians, one coordinator, and one technical adviser with international prestige, Enrique Arnanz, besides, of course, all the professionals of prison institutions who work in the centre of Teixeiro. Thanks to all of them and all of them, over the last ten years, more than a hundred people who participated in courses and workshops have been working on a magazine or have graduated from ESO, the Bachelor's degree or college. Not in vain, the Nelson Mandela program is taken as a reference beyond the limits of Galicia: in 2010 it was recognized by Penitentiary Institutions with the Medal of Silver to Prison Social Merit, in 2011 received the visit of what was then Commissioner for Social Affairs of the European Union, László Andor, and in the same month of July it will be discussed about Galicia and the Nelson Mandela module at the European Congress of Social Services, which will be held in Milan. The results, ladies, speak for themselves. Nothing else and a lot of gases.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u470	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u471	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, the Strategy for Social Inclusion of Galicia, this strategy so criticized here, in this parliament, contemplates, in one of its objectives, supporting in the processes of socio-laborational reintegration of imprisoned people, something which in this parliament to the opposition groups does not seem important to them. Of course, for us, for the People's Party, if it is, because the Council of Galicia is working for people at risk of vulnerability or at risk of social exclusion and promoting the fight against poverty and any form of exclusion or discrimination. As you say, ten years have gone by with this experience of this Nelson Mandela module, and now the results are positive. We would like you to tell us if the Council would like to extend this project to other prisons located in Galicia to promote the social inclusion of these people who are in prison but who will soon be released. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u472	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Close this question, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u473	Thank you, President. Members and Members. Thank you very much for your interest in this pioneering program that is being developed here in our autonomous community in Galicia. And I say it's a pioneer program because, today, there is no similar program in any other penitentiary, Spain or Europe. The good assessments we received, both from the inmates themselves and from the main experts in penitentiary insertion, made us begin to work on the possibility of extending this model to other centers in our community. So today, I can announce to you that the Galician Union will propose the installation of a module similar to Nelson Mandela in the Lama penitentiary centre in Pontevedra. We're expanding this programme because it's a reference at European level, we've expanded it because in these ten years of operation the results have been very positive and we've expanded it, especially because the Nelson Mandela Teixeiro module is being useful to the people who go through it. That's why I can assure you that proceedings with the General Secretariat of Prison Institutions have already been initiated so that this new module can be launched before the end of 2019. We are sure to be able to count on the commitment of the future Central Government, whatever its colour, to bring this important initiative forward, of course. The Galician Union therefore continues and will always work for the full inclusion of the people at risk, going precisely where they are. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u474	Thank you, Counselor. Question by José Manuel Pérez Seco and Mr Raúl Fernández Fernández, G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the measures envisaged by the Council of Galicia to reduce the number of traffic accidents caused by the barians
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u475	Mr. Pérez Seco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u476	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. The barbarians camp at their broad sides on the roads and on the Welsh villages. Just take a look at our roads, or even in the villages, to check this out. The boar gets closer and closer to the dwellings, where the debris finds food, which can be a great danger to people. The presence of the Jabaris generally brings with it consequences and problems at all levels: on the one hand, it affects farmers and farmers, and on the other hand, road safety. As far as agriculture is concerned, the crops are torn apart, they cause changes in land use, and they increase erosion. As for the sheep, they suffer in their own pocket the uncontrolled population of this animal, because the boar is the cause that crushes their corn plantations, as well as the rest of the crops, and this means they spend a lot more money only on feeding their livestock, so they have more costs and less benefits. As for road safety, the jabaril has expanded its radio action until today is one of the main causes of road sinality. Its presence on roads no longer only affects secondary roads, but extends to all roads, including highways, and this is already causing significant material damage and endangering people's lives. Accidents related to jabaris are mainly at night, since their activity is mainly at night. This, coupled with the lack of lighting, causes there's no time of reaction to avoid impact. So, for drivers, when they're aware of the presence of the boar, it's too late. In 2018 more than four thousand eight hundred wild fauna accidents occurred in Galicia, of which more than half — about two thousand five hundred — were accidents caused by Jabaris, according to data from the Directorate-General for Traffic. These accidents are no longer occurring on the days of hunting or beating authorized, but they occur any day of the week at almost any point in the territory of Galicia. Finally, both rural and urban Galicians are aware of the total failure of the current management model of the boar population, uncontrolled and without forecasts of improvement. So I ask you the following question: What measures will the Government take to reduce traffic accidents caused by the barbarians? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u477	Thank you, Mr. Pérez Seco. Response from the Infrastructure & Mobility Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u478	Thank you, President. Your Honor, today you are taking an initiative to talk about the proliferation of boar and its effects on road safety. So in road safety, I'm going to focus mainly on the different situations and the effects of the barbarian on road safety and also on other issues. Because the truth is it's not an exclusive theme of Galicia, nor is it an exclusive theme of the Galician road network, as you will know; it's a topic that goes beyond the Greek field and also, even, the national area. In the German Government, we've been working on this subject, aware of the problem of barbarism and the harmful effects on farmers and livestock. And we're concerned about road safety, which is why a working group has been created to prevent these accidents on the roads; a working group where the state is also, Your Honor, because there are many administrations that have responsibility on the roads. The roads — you will know — are not all of them from Galicia; there are many road owners, including the Ministry of Development, who governs Sánchez, Mr Sánchez. So let me tell you that the situation is complex, it's not so simple, and you have to talk seriously about road safety, I don't know why... [[Murmurs.]] I come here to talk about road safety to address this problem, starting with the root of the problem: to cut off proliferation, to push initiatives to curb its expansion, such as the increase in the authorization of beatings — extending almost a month — and also the help to alleviate the damage — which has increased by thirty-five percent. And, as you said, we have to mitigate the presence on the roads, and allow me a very important fact, Your Honor: as I said, the roads are also the Ministry of Development, where the government delegate, the current delegate, will have powers. We can't lose sight of the fact that the ratio of wildlife accidents per kilometre is twice as much in the Ministry's road network as in the Galician Union. So, I hope the same intensity that I'm asking you to ask the government delegate too, because we're talking about roads in Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] I've come here to talk about road safety and road safety, and I'll keep talking about it, because it's an important, complex issue for me to put into context. It has to be taken into account that in barbaric accidents there is only material damage. The year 2018 is the data we have. The fact is, too, in fatal victims, distractions and excess speed, in matters of road safety, are very important. And, speaking of road safety, which I think is a very important issue — both the barbarian accidents and the rest of the actions in the field of road safety — what we have in the field of road safety — and it is the last protocol for us to transfer to the Government delegate about the commitment to road safety, "Cero Vision": no answer; hence zero sensitivity, zero attention and zero involvement of the Government's delegation in the field of road safety.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u479	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Pérez Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u480	Thank you, President. Very well, Counsellor, of course, you do not like what the Government of Pedro Sánchez is doing, but you will surely take the necessary steps to solve the problems on the roads that depend on the Ministry of Development. [[Applause]] My question was about autonomy. As you well said, there are roads that belong to Galicia, Madrid and to deputies and municipalities; I ask you for autonomy. You were talking, on your website, about strengthening autonomic road signs by using repellents or light signals. And I wonder, when are these measures going? Why haven't they done it before? Because we see that wild fauna accidents, from 2014 to 2018, have gone up nearly two thousand accidents in five years, almost two thousand accidents. [[Mr Pérez Seco shows you a document to the members of the House.]] And as for this year, in the first two months of 2019, according to DXT data, we have eight hundred and seventeen wildlife accidents. I ask you, and I'd like you to give me an answer: what will the Galician Union do to prevent and reduce this number of disasters? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u481	Thank you, Mr. Pérez Seco. Question close, Infrastructure & Mobility advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u482	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I think it's as important an accident that occurs on the roads of the Galician Union as in the Ministry of Development; any accident is important. We all have to work together to improve and we have to talk seriously about road safety. [[Applause]] The question is road safety and I'm going to talk about road safety, measures to alleviate the effects of the boar on the roads; I think I'm answering it. I insist: it is not only Galician, but even in Asturias, where you rule — you see — the Principality recognizes that the Jabaris problem continues. So it's a problem that goes beyond the autonomous community of Galicia, even at the national level, and it's a matter that must concern everyone; I hope that the Ministry of Development and you too; we are concerned. It is a challenge which Europe too recognises and where — hence, in my opinion — the Government of Spain must also involve itself in an integral way in order to promote and propose coordinated solutions and measures. You exaggerate others; we are demanding with ourselves. I also thank you for watching what we have done since the German Government, for everything is important to add to it; but, Your Honor... : "The valley of the A-8 remains damaged and serves as a coat of mail for the Jabalians." [[Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle shows you a document to the members of the House.]] A-8 is from the Ministry of Development! [[Murmurs.]] This isn't happening to us. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Therefore, I believe that the delegation of the Government may well be involved. [[Balbordo.]] The problem is accidents with the jabaris — I insist — on all roads, and we have to act all the administrations that we have competences and that we are holders of all roads. [[Applause]] I insist again: the ratio of accidents per kilometer — of barbaris accidents — is twice as much in the state network as in the Galician Union. And we're not throwing balloons out; we're saying, no less, that the same competition you have... [[Balbordo.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u483	Quiet, please. Oh, my God! Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u484	...the Infrastructure Council has the Ministry of Development, no less, no less! No more! So accidents are all important. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Proposal for a coordination protocol: I would like you to reply to that protocol, because that is a road safety protocol, Your Honor; comprehensive and complex road safety to discuss all matters. [[Murmurs.]] We have identified the truces where there are most barbaric accidents and we work for the installation of wildlife steps and escape routes on our roads; of course we work. And, in a matter of weeks, we are drafting a project for the installation of reinforced fences via high-performance Nadela-Monforte and AG-64 Ferrol-Vilalba. This year we will write the project, with more investment and important dimensions, as it will be more buried; we hope it will be effective. And I hope the Minister of Development will also do it, Your Honor; we will do it. So I expect the same involvement of the thin government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-27-DSPG108.u485	Thank you. Finish the full here. Good night, everyone.
