ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. Let's start with point one. Full debate on the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia by 2020
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u2	Groups I and II were amended by the Joint Parliamentary Group, the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, the Parliamentary Group of the Left and the Socialist Parliamentary Group. For the presentation of the bill, Mr. Valeriano Martínez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I would like to compare today, before Parliament's plenary session, to present the draft budget law for Galician Union by 2020. We are undoubtedly faced with the most important economic debate of the year, because this rule is the main instrument that the Government has to carry out its economic and social policy. The first thing I would like to point out is that it is very positive that we can have this debate because it means that Galicia, one more year, will have budgets. One more year, and they go 40, these accounts have the symbolism that with them we've reached four decades of self-government. Galicia is a unique case in Spain, in order to be able to chain forty followed budgets. The first was adopted on 21 July 1981 and published in the Official Journal of Galicia of that same year, only four months after the adoption of the Autonomy Statute. From this first budget of 1,666 million pesetas, only 10 million euros, to the present, of 10,149 million euros, spent 40 years of autonomous accounts executed in self-government development. The continued improvement in the provision of public goods and services under the competence of the Autonomous Community, the redistributive actions of income and wealth of the Greeks and of the promotion policies, as well as the development of tax competences and of the self-employed public farm, have nothing to do with the 1981 document. Not only because of its physical magnitude — two sheets — and money, but also because of the logic of the government's economic plan, which is the budget. From a pure administrative budget, where the important were the allocations for each service, to the current results-oriented budget, where it is budgeted for projects, intended results and through productivity indicators. We are therefore an example of self-government, and we must all congratulate ourselves on this. Well, today we are debating the 40th budgets of the Galician Autonomy, which are the last of this legislation. It is very satisfying to be able to hold this debate, if we take into account what is happening in politics at the national level, where the current government in function is ruling with prolonged budgets since 2018 and designed by the previous Executive. These are the consequences of instability and political blockade. At the same time as the Spaniards came on November 10 to vote for the fourth time in four years, we discussed in the Greek Parliament the fourth budgets in four years, because, ladies and gentlemen, in Galicia we prove that we are "a different place". We have already indicated this in the Economic and Financial Report of the Budget, "Neboa en Pedrafita, the isolated continent." We know he caught their attention. And this reflection was even more reaffirmed in the last general elections on November 10. In short, the German Government is what seems most to be the case with the Greek citizens. The Greeks are moderate, the Greeks want stability, and the Greeks run away from adventures. That's why they don't like two-party governments, tripartite governments, quadripartites. Thanks to the stability that has been granted to this Government, the Greeks and the Greeks, in Galicia, fortunately, we are shielded by the instability of the state. And our obligation is only to transform Spain's instability into security, certainty, trust and pride for the Greeks and for the Greeks. And there's no greater security for a citizen, for a family or for a company that knows that again in Galicia there will be a new budget. In fact, we are again of the first communities to process the new accounts. An expansive budget for the fifth consecutive year, where we have more resources; but, in turn, prudent. We want Galicia to be an antidote to the blockade and state adventures, because they are some of the accounts we think of — as it cannot be otherwise — in improving the lives of the Greeks and the Greeks of the year 2020, but in which we also start planning the next decade. And we can match both objectives, because if anything characterizes the Government of Greece, it's rigor and planning, which brings together the whole of citizenship, certainty and strategy. Only under these assumptions was it possible to draw up this budget, because for the second consecutive year, the Central Government did not communicate to us the delivery figures to account so that we could accurately calculate our income from the autonomic financing system, but, thanks to the accumulated experience, we could make a prudent and responsible estimate. Ladies and gentlemen, these are budgets that are drawn up in a context of economic slowdown. After four years of strong growth, with rates around or above 3%, since the middle of last year this progress has been markedly slowed, with particular relevance in recent months. Precisely, the political blockade in Spain, the Central Government's inability to approve budgets, coupled with global trade tensions, has a lot to do with this scenario. The diagnosis is well known, and now it is urgent to find solutions to regain security, certainty and confidence to mitigate this loss of economic dynamism and, above all, to continue to generate employment. Ladies and gentlemen, the question, in my view, is how we can fight this situation from Galicia, and the answer we have in this debate, in which we present a reliable and predictable budget, which is good proof of our political commitment for stability and trust. Because at this point, a government and a stable and predictable budget are worth more. Stable, because we continue with the growth path that we recovered in 2014, in the middle of that year. It is predictable, because it is based on the investment priorities set out in the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020 and on the rigor of a robust financial structure; with a primary balance and with an increasing saving, which allows to finance investments without virtually addressing debt and an ever-increasing debt ratio. At the time of signing the resources, the objectives set out in the Strategic Plan, as I indicated earlier, and, on the other hand, are also aligned with those set by the European Commission for our country, within the framework of the European Semester. Thus, we prioritize inclusive growth, active employment policies, trying to improve the labour market, continuing to enhance the tractor role of Joina in innovation, promoting sustainable development, promoting efficiency and renewable energies, as well as an efficient and clean water cycle. All of this, without giving up strong support to culture and tourism, at the doors of a new Xacobeo, as a source of wealth and countrymark. Ladies and gentlemen, having solvent finances like we have in Galicia makes it possible to have increasingly high-quality public services and to be able to support this reinforcement of public services with tax rebates, which save money to businesses and families and help boost economic activity. As soon as I have the opportunity to point out, we want to focus in a special way on family policies, with important actions that involve a great mobilization of resources, ranging from the free registration to the second children and successive ones, to the incorporation of a new year for the Welcome card, to the first three years, or the extension of children's homes in rural areas. The priorities I have just told them show that we have a clear recipe in Galicia. Why? Because we've been applying it in the last few years. We're betting for a healthy growth in stability, with a special relevance in strategic planning, and time I think it's giving us reason, because it's proving that it was a success what we did in 2015. Without triumphalism, there are objective data that Galicia is on the right path. At this point Galicia is the community that has increased its debt the least since 2008. We've been in practice for two years fiscal consolidation and with the first surplus in sixteen years. We lead the investment effort in Spain, we are devoting twice as much resources per capita as the average of the autonomous communities and leading the payment to our suppliers, however, it is clear that we are affected by the closest outline. In this sense, external uncertainties have been extended in Spain in recent months by hasty and unfortunate industrial and energy measures and decisions, the inability to approve budgets and even an unupdated path of fiscal stability. This erratic behavior has been aggravated by the government's disloyalty to local self-government communities and corporations in relation to the country's financial governance and, in particular, to inter-administrative economic relations. I am referring to decisions by the Government of Spain that impact on the spending of local self-government communities and corporations, because they did not update their income for ten months, thus impacting the average periods of payment to suppliers and difficulties in treasury. We must add to this that there are 16 months that the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council has not been convened. In contrast to the central government's attitude, since Galicia we have been consolidating a new model of economic governance based on self-government, accountability and institutional loyalty with transparency. The basic tools for developing it are planning, developing and implementing budgets, as well as their evaluation of results. Its success is its time-consuming in a process of continuous improvement, in addition to the results. This system of autonomous governance has enabled us to take advantage of the improvement of the economic environment, to maintain the financial decision-making centre on autonomous accounts and to offer citizens a balance-sheet that is comparatively superior to the other autonomous communities both in the area of tax burden and debt. This model is considered to evolve towards accountability to the citizens of the results achieved and the continuous reformulation of the strategies that we prioritized in our strategic plan. Before we talk about budget figures 2020, I want to point out a remarkable novelty, the report from the perspective of childhood and adolescence. A document that identifies and quantifys shares associated with rights assurance under the Committee on the Rights of the Child, which should be used to report, evaluate and make decisions on child-related expenditure actions. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have already made progress, these are the fourth budgets of the legislation, and we are fulfilling the objectives of it, reaching 2020 with the vast majority of the challenges designed in 2015 met and aligning today's priorities with those of the next decade, beginning with the design of Xacobeo 2021, with the ambition that it is the best Holy Year in Galicia's history. We are therefore abbiscate in 2020 with the duties done. On the one hand, Galicia is the most advanced community in per capita income in the last decade, almost ten points, and three points above average. And, on the other hand, we are meeting the two main challenges of the Strategic Plan, which were none other than an average, sustained growth of 2.5 % of GDP and the creation of between eighty thousand and 100,000 jobs, two ambitious and risky challenges five years ago; in fact, since the opposition we were always told that they would not meet. Well, over this time, the most positive thing is that the opposition has been wrong and the Government has been right, not on the sole merit of the Government, but of the Greeks and the Greeks as a whole, with the help — that is yes — of the Council of Galicia from our field of competence. Because almost five years later Galicia grew above the forecast, about 3% in the last few years, and we've already created ninety thousand new jobs; and we have one year to try to reach the 100,000, which were the upper limit. In fact, we're unemployed under 2009, and our forecast is that by the end of 2020 the unemployment rate will fall to 10%, in line with what we predicted in the Strategic Plan. In this context, away from any temptation of electoralism, we present a macroeconomic framework that, if we always do so prudently, this year a little more. In fact, Airef itself qualifies as prudent both the forecast of growth and the estimate of job creation. I insist, the Greek Government has not done, does not do and will not make electoralism with economic forecasts. And I also reiterate that we have been warning for some time that the instability that Spain has been living since the mid-2018 motion of censure causes uncertainties towards the immediate future. In fact, our prudent attitude contrasts with the over-optimism of the central government in functions, to which the European Commission has just lowered its forecasts as GDP increases — not less than four tenths — as well as in reducing the public deficit. And unfortunately, month by month, far from clear, the uncertainties increase; and the elections of November 10, as well as the latest events and adventures, do not dismiss them. So we present a very prudent and very balanced macroeconomic framework, we predict a growth of around 2% -- in the line of expectations for this year -- with which we enter a stable growth phase. A growth also of around 2% in terms of spending on final consumption and increasing gross capital formation by 3%. In addition, by next year we are planning to recover exports with a progress of almost 3%. This will reduce the annual average unemployment rate to 10.6 % — the lowest in the decade — which will be 10% at the end of the year; with the expectation of creating at least 9,000 new jobs. I insist that we face this set of issues in fiscal consolidation and reduce the ratio of GDP debt. Every year, in this debate we have to listen to the opposition that we have greatly increased our debt. No one denies that, in times of crisis, we had to get out of debt to maintain the provision of public services in an unprecedented drop-out set of incomes. But two questions must also be taken into account. The first one is to put this data in context, and the reality is that Galicia is the community that has been increasing its indebtedness since 2008. The second, if we increased our debt as the opposition had asked us for ten years ago, we would have an uncontrolled debt as they have other autonomous communities. We must, ladies and gentlemen, and we can continue with objective data. In 2008 Galicia was among the most indebted and now among the least, with six debt points in relation to GDP. But our responsible management of indebtedness not only serves to improve a ranking, but it has prevented Galicia from being indebted to nearly 4 billion euros, in particular 3,970 million; and that the debt ratio of each Greek is less than 2,100 euros on average in autonomous communities. We want to go this way. In fact, the GDP debt in Galicia in 2018 — officially reported by the Banco de España — is 18.1%, five tenths less than in 2017, and this downward trend will continue in the next years, while we end up with fiscal consolidation. Thus, for this year 2019 we expect 17.4 % and for 2020 we reduce it to 17.1%. Now let's talk about the income chapter. The interim situation of the Government of Spain and the lack of a call from the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council this 2019 — as I said before — have not met for sixteen months — made this budget project not count on the accounts of the financing system normally reported by the Ministry of Finance. Despite this unpublished situation, the German Government did not want to give up its accounts; and, in view of the lack of information on system revenues, it included data estimated by the services of the Business Council. Before explaining revenue for 2020, I would like to recall that, although it was reported last October 17 that the State would transfer revenue to outstanding accounts for this year, today we only have 60 million euros in the Community's treasury, or, what is the same, the Central Government has transferred us to now less than 10% of the 700 million euros it owes us. In addition, it must be borne in mind that, even if by the end of the year, we are transferred the EUR 334 million of deliveries to the account — the only thing they say they are going to pay to us — just half of the accounts due by the Central Government to Galicia. They're still paying 200 million of an EVI monthly of 2017, and 170 million for Galicia's good fiscal performance in the years 2017 and 2018. Never — I repeat, never — will we give up the 370 million people who want to remain the Central Government and who are from the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Applause]] Having clarified this, and already focusing on the system account estimates for 2020, we want to be very careful and we want to include an online evolution with the nominal GDP planned for the next exercise, if, of course, its composition and evolution varies according to the cost components. In fact, this House has already declared itself three times demanding the full payment — as it said before — of the 700 million euros, in addition to a high degree of consensus, unfortunately frustrated unanimously by the Socialist Party. But what is ahead of you is that, no doubt, the payment of this debt is the first... not the most important, at best, but yes the first and immediate issue of the Greek agenda that any Government must fulfill. With regard to the IRPF, it evolves at a good pace, supported in an acceptable campaign in 2019, although it is lagging behind the refund of accounts unduly withheld by the maternity benefit, which is not repeated by 2020; and at an enlargement of the bases thanks to the growth of workers and employees and the increase in wages. By its band, the EVI grows more modestly by the more moderate evolution of the collection in 2019 and a certain degree of tolerance in consumption by 2020, while special taxes show linear evolution. I also want to explain that we estimate Galician shares in the management percentage according to the calculations of the last system liquidation. Thus, based on previous developments, we estimate an IT 2020 which applies to the Guarantee Fund which is shared on the basis of the adjusted population of the last settlement of the system, as well as with regard to the adequacy fund. With this methodology, payments to the account expected for 2020 of the financing system reach EUR 7,659 million, 3.1 % more than in 2019. As regards the 2018 settlement to be received by 2020, it is calculated with the same procedure but on the basis of the true data coming from the State Tax Agency. With this forecast, total income amounts to EUR 11,822 million, of which the non-financial income amounts to EUR 10,101 million and 1,721 the financial income. By their side, their own and assigned taxes grow in the case of the ITP and reflect the impact of tax rebates on both inheritances and donations and property taxes. Even so, the evolution of the tax yields is characterized by the consideration of the health penalty within the deliveries to the special tax account. Finally, in the tax system, own taxes reflect the fall in activity in the case of ICA, as well as in the case of gambling tax, and the others show a linear trend. With regard to the final funds of the State, the lack of budget projects that collect new funding lines improves its estimate, resulting from the increase in the minimum levels of dependency corresponding to Galicia by the increase in population assisted and the distribution of employment funds advanced by the relevant sectoral commission. The European funds collect the last normal annuality of the period, by the end of 2021 entering the so-called N+3. In addition, they hope to enter important fund accounts that we have already executed in previous periods, but pending certification in both the Galician and the multi-regional operational programme, then, of course, the initial years of programme launch, in which we made an important programming effort. By chapters, tax revenues reflect a higher increase, between 5% and 7%. On the other hand, revenue from financial operations falls by 3,8 % due to the evolution of the public debt due calendar, and, additionally, by the fall from the debt use in almost a million euros. Ladies and gentlemen, our model is based on strengthening economic growth with less deficit, less debt and also less taxes. It is clear that the model of opposition groups, formulated in previous years and the amendments they often present, is very different. I'd even say it's the opposite model, because the Socialist Party, the Left Joint Group, the BNG and the Mixed Group are over-taxed for another year. I think that the Greeks value our tax discount model the most, because they will remember -- someone was around here then -- that in 2016, when we started revenue recovery, we decided to approve the biggest tax discount in Galicia's history, and the past time since then shows that it's a model that works in Galicia and has a great social acceptance. Many and varied tax reductions have been made over the past four years — and I will only refer to some of them — that we are strengthening for the coming year. In successions, since 2016, no taxes are paid for the EUR 400,000 in direct relatives, without counting the usual housing, a measure already benefiting 99% of the liquidations. But the most important thing is the number of beneficiaries, which already exceeds 355,000 in less than three years. It must be borne in mind that almost one in three, 107,776, are beneficiaries of successor pacts in life. Now we've decided to take a step, to raise from 400,000 to 1 million euros the amount exempt from paying for the inheritance tax. By this measure 99.94 % of the Greeks will not pay inheritance taxes among direct relatives from the first January 2020, which implies their practice of suppression. We also maintain the downsizing among the brothers we approved last year, which eliminates taxation in six out of every ten inheritances for this collective and has already benefited over six hundred and fifty Greeks. On the other hand, we want to continue to favour successions in family businesses, so that this important business fabric is not only kept in future generations, but remains in Galicia. So in these budgets we broaden access to reduction already in force in this area, both in successions and in prayers. On the other hand, you will remember that one of our priorities is that this is the lawmaking of rural areas, and that objective has a lot to do with zero tax policy in rural areas already consolidated, as well as reductions in small areas. Well, in these budgets we strengthen this strategy, to fix the population and make it easier to live in rural areas and live in rural areas. It's also a lot of the measures we've approved in the last three years. Three years ago, we eliminated taxes for rustic soil transmissions, and it's almost sixty-four thousand of the Greeks who didn't pay taxes for buying a rustic asset or expanding agrarian farm. Two years ago, we eliminated the tax to buy a habitual housing in small areas to children under thirty-six years old, to large families and to persons with disabilities; at present 3,378 have already benefited from this measure. And a year ago, we reinforced this bet with incentives for those who do economics and contribute to dynamizing the rural environment. In total, these measures account for more than four hundred twenty-eight thousand beneficiaries since 2016. Since it is being a strategy with high social support, in 2020 we want to take one more step and strengthen the tax drop for those who buy a housing in the sparsely populated areas, which represent 94% of the territory of Greece. Before explaining the new tax rebates, I would like to stress that in the current budgets we have already dropped them to buy a habitual residence house in any part of Galicia. In particular, Galicia is the Autonomous Community in which children under thirty-six years of age, numerous families and persons with disabilities pay less taxes when buying a housing used for habitual residence. Well, by 2020 we are strengthening and complementing by two ways this low tax rate for small areas. By lowering two other points the property tax, from 7% to 5%, with income limit in assets. With this downside, buying a house in the Italian countryside will have the lowest tax in Spain. And by lowering four points the tax on heritage transmissions, from 10% to 6%, for the rest of the purchases of housing in unpopulated areas. Finally, we also incorporated in the IRPF an important new deduction, a new green deduction, which boosts up to 15% of housing improvements, up to 9,000 euros, to raise a letter in energy qualifications. In total, up to EUR 1,350, plus 150 to cover the issue of the energy efficiency certificate. In addition, these important tax reductions must be added to the growing volume of fiscal benefits in the budget. By 2020, up to 448 million euros are already reached, which means 84 million increases during this legislation, 23% more; and 95% of these tax benefits are of a social nature. With this budget policy, we added another year by 2020 to earn spending capacity, which will allow us to count on the highest budget in a decade. We've had five years with expansive budgets. By next year, the public accounts in Greece will reach EUR 10.149 million, 3% more than this year, but if we take into account the smallest resources that we would deduct from the payment of debt in Chapter III, as well as from the Public Investment Society in Chapter VI, the available resources will rise to almost EUR 360 million, 3.5 % more. We make a very important bet on current spending, which increases by 266 million euros; 278 if we don't count the financial costs. But savings on current operations increase by 5.5%, up to 968 million euros, which puts us on the highest levels of a decade, and savings on primary current operations reaches up to 1,111 million euros. Capital expenditure amounts to 1,691 million, increasing by 2.43%, but if we take into account what I have just commented on a moment ago in chapter VI of 2019, which included 37 million euros to pay the pending mandates of the Public Investment Society and that in 2020 do not show by amortizing the total debt that this entity had with the surplus that we achieved in 2018, the actual spending capacity for our investments increases by 76 million euros; that is, by 4.5%. Galicia follows its own path of fiscal consolidation, more constant, but also smoother than the proposal by the Government of Spain. This allows, in a year marked by uncertainties and adventures, to make no further effort in fiscal consolidation, making a smaller adjustment than the rest of autonomous communities and the proposed by the Government of Spain, which was supposed to move from 0.3% to 0.1%. Let's go to the cost priorities. The sign of identity of this government is nothing other than social spending. It was in the worst times of the crisis, also in recovery, and we continue in these moments of uncertainty. In fact, the 2020 budget is the most concentrated social expenditure in the history of Galicia: EUR 7.400 million. Or what's the same, so many resources have never been allocated to public health in Galicia, to public education in Galicia, and so many resources have never been allocated to public public policies in Galicia. [[Applause]] And not only do we say it in word, but we reflect it in budget numbers. Of the 300 million more that we have available for next year, 275, more than ninety percent, are destined for social spending. Thus, the weight earned in the cost structure during the crisis, where these services were shielded, is now maintained due to the improvement of the services provided in these areas, as well as the cost of them, by allocating three out of every four euros of the total non-financial expenditure to our health, education and social policy. And obviously, as our public services lend them to people, I would also like to briefly remember the improvements that this budget includes for public employees. And the first reflection is none other than that we are fulfilling the social agreement, a historic agreement that we signed in January both with UXT and with Workers' Commissions. We reserve 2% of overall salary increase by 2020, plus one variable depending on GDP, with a fund of up to 2.2%. We set up a career, we carried out the voluntary functioning of the fixed-worker, by which we chose 95% of these professionals, and we completed the Stability Plan, with more than fifteen thousand jobs of quality. In fact, in the Law on Measures, which we are going to deal with today, includes the creation of the staff scales necessary to comply with this agreement with the unions. In addition, we will implement the annuality corresponding to sectoral agreements to improve the remuneration of public health personnel, public education, justice, the Equality and Welfare Consortium, forest firefighters and environmental agents. With all these measures, we have, for the first time in history, exceeded EUR 4 billion in staff costs. Secondly, in our commitment to the provision of services and stability in employment, we have created nearly 500 new squares, giving priority to primary health care and the extension of hospitalization at home. Employment is also another priority, and we have almost EUR 275 million by 2020, increasing resources by 4.5%, 12 million more, again over the average increase in the total. In four and a half years, 90,000 jobs have been created in Galicia, and, although we are in economic downturn, we have to do everything possible to create at least those 9,000 jobs by 2020. So, even though five years ago it was very risky to talk about generating jobs in Galicia between 80,000 and 100,000 jobs, we're on our way to meeting the high band of these estimates. I+D+i. On the other hand, in the strategy of changing the growth model, betting on innovation and knowledge, we're not left in the words, with a progressive increase in the appropriations as we develop Galicia's Ris 3 strategy, i.e. the strategy of intelligent specialization in Galicia. In fact, the Innovation Agency is increasing its budget by 5.1%, which means an accumulated rise, since 2015, of 79%. In addition, the R & D resources of health care, university and primary sector complement the above-mentioned information on the Innovation Agency itself. In order to prepare the best Xacobeo in our history, we have spent two years with specific games to prepare the Year 2021, and by 2020 we will count on a package of measures in different offices for 82 million euros, to get all of us to make Xacobeo 2021 the best in history. The 2020 budget also has a territorial perspective, to help rebalance and that the Greeks and the Greeks have the same opportunities and services, regardless of the province they live in. For this reason, Lugo will receive 4,252 euros per inhabitant, Ourense 4,096, The Coruña 3,281, and Pontevedra 3,200. The rebalancing nature of public investment in the budget means that we continue to discriminate positively against the provinces of Lugo and Ourense, making up for the most unfavourable situation in these provinces in terms of income and population. Thus, the average increase in per capita expenditure over the 2019 budget increases in the eastern provinces by 4,4% and in the western provinces by 3.2%. I'll be done. As you can appreciate, these 2020 budgets are being drawn up in the key of the present, it could not be otherwise, but also in the key of the future, because they are obviously seeking to further improve the quality of life of the Greeks and the Greeks, to continue to promote quality employment and to make it easier for companies with measures by 2020. But next year's accounts also start planning for the next decade, with four major priorities: a young Galician girl, a family Galician, an innovative Galician, and a green Galician. Priorities and measures we will implement in the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2021-2030, which we will present in the first half of 2020 in this House. For this strategy we also incorporate, in the budget for 2020, measures that target the next decade, as a dual employment programme for children under thirty years of age in the youth guarantee system; a vocational guidance plan, with a second mentor in public schools, as well as more caregivers for pupils with special needs; the expansion of the new staff card, with two more years of coverage for young people up to 21 years of age, to travel free in long-distance public transport; the freeness of daycare from the second child, regardless of the age of the first child, or the extension of the Welcome card to the third child and to births in less-populated municipalities; with more resources for independence, EUR 362 million, 5.8%; with an investment in which we exceed 100 million in innovation; with measures to dynamize rural, improve and prevent forest fires, and actions to combat climate change. [[Applause]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating an expansive but prudent budget, with more resources, for the first time in a decade, exceeding €10,000 million and with less taxes. Some accounts that allow healthy growth, that continue to create jobs and that bet on fiscal consolidation and the reduction of debt as a guarantee for the future. A budget that places Galicia in the investment effort in Spain, with more and better public services. And finished the way it started. We have an advantage, we can approve the budget for another year, but there are uncertainties that we must fight. It's urgent that we count on the resources that are from all the Greeks. We need the Central Government to transfer everything we owe for this year. We have to be responsible and act with institutional loyalty, and we must never repeat what happened this year: wait until November until we update our deliveries to the autonomous communities. Resources that we had to receive since January begin to arrive in the penultimate month of the year. Nor is it reasonable for the Central Government to remain with a month of collection of the 2017 VAT corresponding to autonomous communities, deputies and municipalities. It is still possible to reach an agreement before the end of the year to resolve this situation. The central government has to be aware that autonomous communities need financial stability and that problems like the rulings this year are those that encourage debate and even questioning by some sector of the state of autonomy, when in the last forty years it has been shown that autonomous communities are not the problem, but that we are part of the solution, and the best example is Galicia, the only community that has continuously worked out its budgets for four decades, the budget number forty that I have just presented them. For all this, if you want a model of success in the autonomy state, the answer is Galicia. And if you look for an example that the state of autonomy works, the answer is Galicia. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Debates and votes on the amendments to the whole proposal for a global refund of budgets or any section or expenditure manager agent
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u4	Thank you, Counselor. We continue the meeting with the debate and vote on amendments to the whole tabled by the parliamentary groups. First of all, we begin with Amendments to Group I, i.e. with the debate and vote on the amendment to the whole of the proposal for a global refund of budgets or of any section or expenditure manager, all of this in accordance with Rule 130.1 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Joint Parliamentary Group of the Left and the Socialist Parliamentary Group were amended. The Joint Parliamentary Group begins the debate. Mr. Villares has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u5	Good morning, gentlemen. Counsellor, allow me to begin the amendment to your budgets in this House with the amendment to the first sentence of your budgetary memory. Mr. Counsellor said: Fog in Pedrafita, the isolated continent. We say, from En Marea, Fogoa on Mount Pio, the isolated president. Illustrating Galician social and economic reality, isolated from problems, and hence to possible solutions to those problems. It will be us, from Marea, who will begin by explaining to them what reality our country is experiencing, a reality that has been marked, since 2008, by a polyedral crisis. We've not come from a simple fall in gross domestic product in the last decade, it's a crisis that represents the collapse of a model of capital accumulation, which has brought with it not only the cutting of the state of well-being, but has also accelerated a process of change in the model of productive relationships on an international scale. We are immersed in profound transformations: new working relationships, new technologies, new forms of production, and Galicia cannot be alien to them. Galicia presents a business sector that is located in the middle value chain, with the exception of some island companies, and which are therefore more exposed to changes. Galicia also has a very weak labour market, perhaps one of the weakest in the whole state. The rates of occupation and activity are very low, but in addition, the German labour market is characterized by the expulsion of that most qualified human capital to emigration, and it is becoming increasingly dependent on those activities that generate a lower added value. This labor market is so pernicious for the Galician society, that it expels from the territory those Greeks and Greeks in key ages for family establishment, it comes from the hand of a fully reversed demographic pyramid, which has important social, economic and political consequences. The function of a government is to generate an ecosystem that has the ability to anticipate the problems that may arise, something that doesn't make the Government of Galicia. Why? Because Junta considers that the barriers to overcoming are very large and prefers to give up developing the country's productive and social fabric. This negative and defeatist conception causes the generated ecosystem to end up promoting productive specialization in little-value added activities, well-trained human capital to emigrate, that we lose knowledge and learning, that we do not attract investments and that we end up having a welfare state under the real needs of Greek society. The budgets of the Union for 2020 completely omit these transformations that are being made and also represent the budgets of a Government that believes in Galicia's defeat, that does not believe in the country itself and that Government reinforces the idea that Galicia is meeting at the end of the world. For all this, In Marea, who if he believes in Galician society, who believes in his country, we anticipate our vote against. As for the context we are living in, Galicia's economic growth over the last decade has been really weak. Specifically, the Greek economy has grown less than the Spanish average. On average, the Spanish economy grew by 1% annually while Galicia did so by 0.9%. In 2019 the growth of the Greek economy will be 1.5% while Spanish growth will reach up to 1.9%. And if GDP data is not positive, job creation over the entire ten-year period is even worse. Galicia continues to be the Autonomous Community with the worst development of employment. Galicia is the second autonomous community where employment has been reduced, in fact, we still have 50,000 less busy than there was while in the state as a whole they have increased by almost 800,000 people. If we compare the number of persons employed with respect to the third quarter of 2014, when the economic recovery phase begins, the number of persons employed grew by 8.69%, while the increase in Spain as a whole was 13.54%. Galicia is also the third autonomous community where unemployment has decreased since the third quarter of 2009. The unemployment fell in our territory by 11%, while in the state as a whole it was 22%. Our rate of temporality continues to grow and is located above the Spanish average almost a point. Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. In 2019 job creation was located in Galicia at 1.5%, while in Spain at 2.2%, an evolution of employment which is consistent, in addition to an industrial decadence never seen in the last decades of our country, something which has not been made a reference in its intervention. Currently, the industrial production index in Galicia has fallen to 6.2% of the year, while in the state it has increased by 0.4%. And Galicia, with this data, accumulates twelve consecutive months of annual falls, as the latest positive data dates from November 2018. Data all of these indicating that there is a profound divergence between the growth pattern of the Greek economy with regard to Spanish. Another of the fundamental elements to understand our situation is the situation of self-government and self-government. The number of affiliates to the general autonomous regime in our territory remains very negative; in particular, in September — you know — a total of 209,873 affiliates have been registered, which means the lowest figure since 2009. Of course, with little work, with poor quality work, with social disprotection, the result is a situation of absolute precariousness. All these economic conditioners generate a social panorama that translates into data that you're sure you know but that I want to remember here, at least some of them. The AROPE rate translates into 612,000 people at risk of poverty or social exclusion. There are about thirty-four thousand homes with no income in Galicia. In 2018 there were a total of 14,338 applications for Risk and social inclusion aids, a Risk that only covered 1.6% of the population at risk of poverty. 1.6% of our population is in a situation of severe material deficiency, Counsellor. It's about 60,70,000 of the Greeks and Greeks who earn annual gross incomes below 9,000 euros. In total, something more than a billion people living in this universe of precariousness, which is not only work, but is a social precariousness that prevents them from planning their lives, which prevents them from being certain and simply prevents them from reaching the end of the month. They're very socially committed data. And the latter we think is an emergency Galician, and so we have to deal with it. This whole pattern shows that, in our view, there are three fundamental emergencies that need to be dealt with in these budgets. First, an industrial and environmental emergency, caused by a decadent industrial model, which is highly dependent on fossil fuels and which is no longer competitive by the emergence of an environmental consciousness that demands the decarbonization of the economy in the face of the unstoppable advance of climate change and the threat of a civilizational collapse in the countries around us, with the loss of habitats, quality of life and even land surface in highly populated coastal areas of our country. Secondly, a social emergency caused by the increase in social inequalities, in a country that produces more wealth than ever before, but that distributes it even less than ever. An unfair tax system, accentuated by you, where those from above are getting richer by the tax cuts of these budgets, while those below suffer the consequences of the budget cuts due to the lowest collection. Fewer resources — you recognize — to meet fundamental rights such as health, education, dependence, social services, less resources for Galician language and culture and also less resources for promoting social cohesion. And yes, less resources also for a green and fair production model transition, an energy and industrial transition in which the Government has not dealt with and which will become a monstrous factory of unemployed and emigrants, not only in districts devastated by industries, but also with a drag effect throughout Galicia. And we also live, Counsellor, in a feminist emergency, which causes the poor performances of the People's Party's Government to meet and reverse the situation of women's historical inequality in relation to men, and which condemns them to work more to achieve the same wages, or -- that is the same -- to charge less for the same work, to sacrifice the professional career for maternity, to have fewer job opportunities in the best jobs and to be treated as objects in advertising and to be denigrated as people with less rights by the political forces of the far right who bring non-democratic values in which the PP supports to govern the change of concessions in his speech and in his policies of equality. And in the face of these emergencies, Counsellor, the Board has not only done nothing, but is also responsible for its policies and economic management, which for us is delusional and self-destructive, responsible for encouraging — I say — and deepening these emergencies, cold all of them, of the peculiar economic policy practice that has acquired neoliberalism in our country. And yes, the squilming management of the territory and misunderstandings of the interests of citizenship by the People's Party ultimately has the demographic implosion of Galicia, which is a symptom, is not disease itself. And from here, in this context, we have the budgets that you present here today. Fog in Monte Pio, totally isolated from the social and economic reality of our country. To say what has ever been said since the opposition, that the People's Party does not have a plan for Galicia, it does have a plan, but since En Marea we consider that this plan is no longer in accord — if it has ever been — with the needs of our country. The negationism that makes Galician Union of emergencies that our country lives is correlated with the model and project that you, as a party, have for Galicia. The People's Party has an economic mantra that obeys faithfully. This mantra says that it is necessary to reduce the burden of public spending and lower taxes on the rich, which is what they do in these budgets, which necessarily implies less public services, more privatization, the increase in social inequalities and, as a necessary consequence, demonstrated in the last decade or more of the last two decades, corruption. It's the mantra of economic efficiency. All expenditure has to be efficient, and therefore this implies abandoning and leaving behind the impoverished or aging areas of our country, because that is not efficient, or neglecting public services, which are not measured in money, such as attention to the elderly, education or culture. All this is not cost efficient; therefore, out. There is another mantra, which is that of non-intervention in the economy or in the market, that is, pure and hard liberalism, which is what you are, which leads to concern about industrial crises and economic crises, and then, when the closures of the industries announced decades ago, as is the case of the Bridges, the Government takes it with its unproven duties. Explain, if not, what they did over the last decade and in which the 2020 budgets are based the reaction to the industrial decadence that has all over Ferrolterra; point out that concrete departures. Or also when exports are reduced and a strategy has not been prepared to increase, for example, domestic demand. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, Junta has an economically clear model, and you know perfectly what they want for Galicia: to strengthen Galicia's productive production on the policy of raw materials, that is, in the squilling of territory and natural resources, by large multinationals who generate little employment and who, on the other hand, have a high impact on our territory, which is not only about this generation, but will also inherit future generations. For all these ideas, the People's Party has -- what we do not ask you, Counselor, is the Touro mine, since they comment on the exhibition -- an unfair fiscal policy of revenue and expenditure. Injustices fiscal policy that we define perfectly as antisocial and that it is based on budgets where income makes important concessions to higher incomes and large corporate corporations, which erupt the territory, without any compensation, and, on the side of expenditure, reduction of income and reduction of budgets that hit public services and job creation, so it is impossible for many people to compensate for the deep damage caused by the cuts imposed over the last decade. I'm going to ask you how many times it takes: are we as good as we are to give tax gifts to the rich? How much more money is left for us to give up that income? We don't think so. Lowering taxes to the rich and reducing income by reducing taxes to the rich increases social inequality, makes society as a whole precarious. We need to get closer to budgets from the income perspective to better understand the anti-social nature of the People's Party's economic policy in these budgets. When we analyze the budgets, we usually pay more attention to spending, but revenue gives us an ideal picture of the model, a deep reflection of how an economy is functioning too, and what is the economic and social strategy that is following a government. Thus, the evolution of revenue in the Greek budgets demonstrates the current dynamics of the Greek economy, an economy that grows less than the Spanish average, which creates less employment than the Spanish average, with lower wages than the Spanish average and with a fully reversed demographic pyramid. With this situation, Counselor, is it normal to lower the taxes to the rich? is it normal? Is it normal? Yes or no? Do you have enough resources to meet these needs? No, right? I suppose you'll say no. If the answer is no, why do you lower your taxes? Non-financial revenues, ladies and gentlemen, in 2008 reached a total of EUR 9,938 million; in 2018 these revenues were EUR 9 billion; that is, EUR 938 million less than in 2018. In 2020, budgets indicate that non-financial revenues will be €9,846 million. Therefore, twelve years later, Galicia is not yet able to equal the existing revenues in 2008. And if we compared non-financial revenues to the rest of the state's territories in 2017, Galicia would be the fourth autonomous community with a lower recovery of state income. But you have to wonder why income evolution is so negative. The fact is, on the one hand, that the deep cuts in public spending that led to the Galician Union depressed -- and it must be said that -- the economy depressed much more than the whole of the Spanish economy at the recession, with which, when the cycle's accist begins, growth is much lower and job creation is lower and with a lower quality employment, more precariously, more temporally, with the lowest wages. These are the consequences of their economic policies. Because the government is about to intervene in the economy, to try to reinforce the conditions that allow the greatest and best job creation. None of this has happened in these years by the People's Party Government. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, the policies of the People's Party show an idea, and it's attacking our financial autonomy and becoming completely dependent on the state. When the Autonomy instruments are used to completely give up income, what we're doing is completely dependent on state funding. So let's stop being autonomous, reduce our autonomy. Abuse of the reduction of own taxes means renouncing taxes which are legitimate and which are also necessary for the operation of Autonomy. When you lower your taxes on the rich, we run out of money for education, for health care, for the elderly, for attention to equality between women and men, for quality employment, and for young people not to have to emigrate. And when you give up all this, we become more dependent than the state can leave us with that concept. You spoke before self-financing and the debts that the state has, but you yourself, with your own capacity, with the ability of the Administration to give up those revenues, renounce your own capacity. And this happens because if you give a tax model where Junta avoids its responsibilities and also provides unfair economic concessions -- we have to repeat it, so you can come here to apologize -- to higher incomes and to the most pirated companies, leaving without resources the financing of Autonomy and Wellness and job creation. He fled his duty as ruler to collect the highest incomes and corporate profits to redistribute that excess of profit among the population, thus breaking the principle of tax progression in which social cohabitation is based. By not collecting, inequalities are increasing, because rich people transfer less money to public buildings and Junta cannot redistribute these resources in the form of funding for public resources and basic services to those who need it most. Tax justice is the only thing that seeks to rebalance, taking what is left of it to divide and create conditions of justice for the population's whole and equal opportunities for the population's whole, which is what you deny about its casualties. Let's see this on the tax trail. First, with regard to succession tax, from 2013 to 2019, a lower weight in budgets than they had in 2013, specifically a drop in income from succession tax of 66 million euros. One question that we make clear regarding the tax of succession: is it possible that at a time of growing social inequality — and I want to remember that in the last five years the number of billionaires in the state and also in Galicia has multiplied by five, growing inequalities, so while the rate of inequality, the AROPE rate, continues to keep very alarming figures in our country — the Spanish State being one of the countries of the European Union with the highest income inequality, those taxes that concretely consume the wealth they have and with the objective of preventing the creation of family dynasties from becoming less and less relevant to budgets? And on the other hand, the Union has decided to give a gift to the highest estates in our territory, the property tax, and they will have to take this situation into account. Well, you've already noticed that income was reduced this year in the 2020 forecast as a result of lowering the wealth tax to the highest income, to the highest income, not to the highest assets, regardless of income. In particular, you have reduced by 20%, by 20%, the scale of recording the tax, and you have reduced the collection by 11%. I mean, the six thousand richest people in Galicia get 11% less in property tax because you think they paid too much. Six thousand richest pay too much! It seems to us that it is unfair to pay what they pay, and it seems unfair to us that this reduction prevents us from having enough resources for social policy. But since greed has no substance, this gift was not enough for that greed of the most powerful, who influence the People's Party, and so the Union decided again to grant another tax gift this year, of what you have come to presume here: once again, in the tax of succession, for those fortunes of up to 1,000,000 euros, which will be exempt from taxation. How can it be that when someone receives an inheritance from his father or his mother from between EUR 400,000 and EUR 1,000,000 per head, per head, you don't have to pay anything? So, that person who receives in inheritance €900,000 isn't it fair that, as a result of this manifestation of wealth that involves the acquisition of that heritage, he pays a tax? Is it fair or not fair? We think it's fair. What kind of people, what kind of families, what kind of people can transmit by inheritance, by son, by head, by 1,000,000 euros? I'd almost say I don't know anyone; I don't know if you, with the treatment I have with you, can be within this deduction or not. Normal people, normal people won't suffer, or they won't benefit from this downsizing; normal people, of course. You have empty pockets, like most of the country's citizenship. The beneficiaries of this discount are the superrich ones, and it seems unfair to us that these reductions are made to the superrich ones while normal people still have charities to access certain public services, which you don't put on with more amplitude because they have no resources, and they don't have them because they tell the rich. And that can't be, it seems to us that that can't be. The lack of tax responsibility of the Board is also reflected in the tax benefit policy it carries out. I've forgotten his policy of cottages in the countryside before. Under this propaganda, taxes are lowered so that people can buy a second house in the sparsely populated areas of Galicia, a reality is hidden, and it's the lowered acquisition of summer pisitos, in Barreiros, in Perbes, in Mine, on Grove, on the island of Arousa. These are the parishes where you're going to make a discount. I mean, we've reduced income by paying attention to dependency so the rich can buy a second summer housing at the expense of tax rebates. And, Mr. Fernández, I've already said summer fish, it won't be possible for you to tell me that in rustic soil you can't buy the chalets. Of course, this also affects the chalets in these parishes and also the apartments. Sure. Then come with the law, come with the law, which comes with the Law of Accompaniment, and explain to me where these limitations are made. There's no limitation of any kind, and that's why you're making a hidden gift to buy summer floors, and that can't be, ladies. Well, that's why you're on one side and we're on the other, obviously. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, Galicia has a serious problem with tax fraud and it seems that Junta is again evading its responsibilities. The results indicate that in Galicia the economy submerged reaches 22% of our GDP, which is equivalent to a volume of EUR 12.400 million, and which places Galicia as the third autonomous community with more submerged economy, only surpassed by Canary Islands and Andalusia; 22% fraud, while the European average is 18%. Why don't you put enough resources to fight that fraud? Why don't they increase those resources, which would also mean new revenues for the public administration? Ladies and gentlemen, in view of this situation of the People's Party's resignation to collect money from its friends via taxes, from the wealthiest friends, and also from fraud, the question that needs to be answered is this: are they economically guaranteed quality public education, universal public health, attention directed to dependent people or full employment and environmental neutrality of our industry? Is that guaranteed? Any representative, ladies and gentlemen, with eyes on his face and eyes to see, who hears, but above all who feels and who empathizes with his population, will say no. Those needs are not met. Then we asked ourselves: How is it possible that the Union will intentionally want to evade its fiscal capacity, in addition to making tax gifts to the richest, when we are still living a clear lack of resources to meet the most important needs of the population? These budgets, Counsellor, do not accompany the emergencies of Galicia. They're talking about an increase of 2.7%. The question is: is this enough to meet Galicia’s needs? If it's not enough, I'll ask you again: Is it normal to lower the taxes to the rich? Well, if not, we walk into a more unequal and unjust world, and from En Marea we are against, so of course. That's why we don't like those accounts. They come to us with the accounts of the past. Look, if we look at last year and the previous years, not the budget but the executed one, we'll see that the sum of the expenditure carried out in health, education and social services is lower than in 2009; in particular in 2009 it reached 6,930 million euros in health, while in 2018 it is 6,824. We could even speak as an adjusted resident, but, as I have very little time, I leave for the reply if you want to discuss it. If we look everywhere, the countries around us, the situation is not much better for the country if we compare it with the rest of the States. You talk about what social spending increases, but the reality is that you, and we as a society, are far from the European average ratios. As a reference it serves a given, and it is that Galicia, at the level of public expenditure in the total welfare functions, has a deficit with the European average of 4,500 million euros, 4,500 million euros less than what is spent in Europe, especially in the functions of old age, health care and family care, which are the most deficit; a deficit that these budgets will not significantly reduce. They could do more if they kept income from taxes to the rich, but they don't want to. It could also be indicated that while in the European Union average health expenditure is 7% and in education at 4.5%, in Galicia the expenditure of these functions is 6% and 3.6%. I want to insist on another propaganda trap of the People's Party, which is what is budgeted and then what is spent, that is, what is executed. They say, we have 100 for this, but then at the end they spend 70, with which the reality is that there are 30 left on the road and that 30 difference doesn't affect people's lives. I'm going to put two fundamental examples. The R+D+i, research and development, of what you've talked about. In 2016, the Italian Research, Development and Technological Innovation Plan left behind 18%; in 2017, in the same match, they left behind 22.5%. In university research, in 2016, 23% less, and in the following year 25 million euros. In total, from 2009 to 2018, you left without running at R+D 240 million euros. Is this the PP bet on innovation? Leave without spending 240 million euros already in games that weren't very abundant? But if there's a game -- and we've been reporting it for a long time -- where execution is a very alarming thing about employment. In terms of employment, you, from 2011 to 2018, have averaged 62% of active employment policy matches. I mean, to encourage people to have a job, a decent job and a well-paid job, you, of 6,562 million euros they had, they spent 1,620 million. Which means that the Galician Union, between 2011 and 2018, has failed to implement a total of EUR 945 million, representing 1.5 % of the European GDP, of which the specific roles are to promote employment. See what explanation they give, we've still been waiting for explanations for months. Examples are not only R & D and jobs. There are other examples that are also very important. As far as housing is concerned, you budgeted and executed only 83%. Last year they didn't spend 13 million euros on housing, when there are 15 thousand people who have objective housing needs that are not covered, 13 thousand people claiming housing in the registers of the Galego Institute of Housing and Only that they have recognized that right, but that there are no dwellings in the board of Galicia to give rent to those people who asked for that housing. More people who are officially declared homeless, who are, for example, Caritas, about one thousand three hundred. What solution? Leave the money for unspent housing. In the environment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u6	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u7	...—if—they spent 70%, i.e. 37 million euros without running. There's no climate emergency. As far as business development is concerned, with industrial conversion and the electro-intensive crisis, they left 71 million euros unspent. In rural areas, as there are no problems, they left 61 million euros. And in infrastructure and mobility they left 67 million euros. And we ask ourselves, what is it worth announcing a budget increase if it is then not executed? The announcements you make here today are smoke, also due to the degree of execution of budgets. They're mere propaganda. They're half-truth. Of what they say, 70% is all, and, despite what they say, we know they could be better with another tax regime. Ladies and gentlemen, the three emergencies in which Galicia currently lives: feminist, climate and social, are completely ignored in the budgets of 2020. We have an environmental emergency, but the Union does not consider giving it the importance it really has, and it only devotes 4.3% of its budget to climate change. We live in a feminist emergency, and spending on equality policies only increases 1.22%, that is, half of what increases the total social expenditure. We live in an industrial crisis, which advocates a social emergency of unbearable unemployment and which works as a boarding card for the new emigration, for the young people who have no opportunities and have to emigrate, and for you, your only economic employment policy is to entrust yourself to the Sunday 25th, i.e. to entrust themselves to the saints; it is the entire policy of economic development and employment development.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u9	"I'm done." Finally, the climate emergency and the change in mobility towards public, sustainable and electric transport, by train, tram or bus, for you is not a priority, and they decrease that match by 70% compared to the budgets they were ten years ago. Thank you very much, and we're still in the replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u10	Thank you, Mr. Villares. We greet the students and students of the 1st and 2nd courses of Administrative Management and Administration and Finance of the Centro Campo de San Alberto, in Noia, also their teachers, who accompany us today. Welcome to Parliament. Now it's up to the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. For that you have the floor to speak to your spokesperson, Mrs. Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u11	Good day to all and all. I also use it to greet the student who accompanies us today. The truth is, counsellor, it's less bad that he told us that the election campaign had already been over and that he wasn't doing an exercise of electoralism, because if he didn't, hearing some of his intervention, whatever he would say, wouldn't he? What was that like? [[Applause]] Not small excuse, manifest accusation. He's had two of his speeches here. He told us something we agree with. In fact, Galicia is a different place. I would say: it's a shame that we have a cannibal government with our own country, and I would also warn you that it has a bit of care and a sense of realism, because it made a statement in which you come to say something like this: Galicia doesn't like bipartisans; be careful, because what the Welsh people said in the last elections we had is that what they don't like are the policies of the People's Party, because they don't have a majority to support those policies. 10 to 13. [[Applause]] And he goes back to electoralism, and he'd say almost cheap and cutre, with the famous theme of 700 million. We have already told him that they have lost the opportunity to prove that they defend Galician interests when they have not brought a case before the state, and we see the result of their passivity: that they keep passing from you. And they also happen to you because, instead of defending that the Greeks and the Greeks need a new model of funding that allows us to have the key to our money, you at the bottom defend that Madrid centralism, which is what's jeopardizing Galicia's interests, and which is what's conditioning that we don't have the resources that the country needs. Well, in any case, by focusing a little on those issues, I wanted to start my intervention today by asking him -- I don't know if you saw the Chernobyl series -- I won't tell you that your budgets are like a nuclear explosion, but, in any case, I don't know if you saw this series, which in the first chapter begins with one of the protagonists, Valeri Legásov, Soviet scientist, who is just in a kitchen smoking and listening to his own voice engraved. And that recorded voice begins in that chapter with a question, which says, "How much do lies cost? It's not like we're going to confuse them with the truth. The danger is to hear so many that we no longer recognize the truth. What do we do at that time? Is there anything left that is not to give up hope and to be content with stories?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh I, when I first heard this reflection with which the Chernobyl series begins, the truth is that I thought about Galician Union, because it quite well defines the underlying issue with which you focus your performance. They're telling us lies after lies, I'm telling you, I imagine that in the hope that we don't recognize the truth or that we're happy with their stories. Because that's what you're telling us here, that's what we have to endure every Thursday at the board of assembly that don't solve anything important for the country and that is limited to propaganda reports. The same stories we have to endure on an increasingly manipulated Galician TV and the service of the People's Party — and we want to show solidarity with its workers and black Fridays. [[Applause]] And that's what also summarizes your intervention today in this plenary. Because he has come to tell us a story — by the way, repeated — of the fact that budgeting is something exceptional, which turns this government into something heroic: he presents budgets with an absolute majority; the story that everything that depends on the Union is going well; the story that Galicia's economic problems are going to be solved with the Xacobeo of the year 2021; or that story that these are the most social budgets, no longer says about Galicia, he says about the world; that is, they are everywhere looking at and studying the social policy of the United States of Galicia. But reality is much more sad, and really the budgets that the People's Party presents to us for 2020 are the portrait of a failed government, without ideas, no project for the future, and that leaves us a worse Galiciar ten years after its management in front of the government. We can say that their policies are like the weeds that prevent Galicia from flourishing. They have no ideas to deal with the industrial crisis, no strategic impulse for innovation, neither for science, nor for the productive sectors. They continue to deteriorate in the public sectors, they continue to put health at risk against the ropes and make there are Welsh and Welsh people who are risking their lives. And they don't have any effective measures to deal with the demographic crisis, the environmental crisis, the inequality crisis. Or the deterioration that is taking place in our language and culture. And I'm going to tear down some of these stories and why we say that all this is just a big lie from the People's Party. He said for a long time — the President of the Union said again today, you have repeated it here again — that it is exceptional to present the budgets of the Union, but in fact it is quite normal and quite usual. In fact, if you analyze what's going on this year in most autonomous communities, you'll see that all of them have been presented or in the presentation phase, that only two of them have given up making budgets for 2020, and they're by chance two places where the People's Party: Madrid and Castilla-Leon rule. The second story is that Galicia is better than ten years ago. And the truth is, I wonder — I suppose as many citizens do — what are you based on to make an assertion of this calibre? Because the statements have to support them in reality, and we have official statistical data from the Union itself that deny that statement. One of the elements that measures whether we live better or worse is whether we have more and better jobs. And what is the reality of employment in Galicia? Because today we have fewer jobs than ten years ago, that we have a very low level of occupation, camouflaged in one part throughout the emigration of the people they expelled during these years and because we have a lower rate of activity than the average state. And besides, we also have a more precarious job. The world of work has deteriorated so much that in Galicia today it is not synonymous with a decent life. You have created a new social category, which is the workers and the poor workers, which is largely responsible for the economic policies of the Union and for the reforms of the People's Party and the Socialist Party that we say must be abrogated. [[Applause]] And the deterioration that's going on is not just that we've alerted you since BNG. I suppose you read the Foesa Report and it gives you some kind of credibility. Do you know what that report tells us — the last one they presented —? That 12.3% of people working in Galicia are in social exclusion and 3.6% are in severe poverty. And this leads us to talk about another matter that's important, and that's what the income level that the Greeks and the Greeks have right now. Did it really improve the redistribution of wealth in these ten years? Well, what we see here is what happened here is that, while you call insanity growth, we say it's an uneven growth. The income of workers and workers is becoming less and less heavy in the Greek economy, and, in fact, today's income is heavier than the income of workers and workers. And this wasn't the case in 2009, it was just the other way around. So what we're seeing in Galicia is a trend that doesn't happen in the rest of the state, which is a more unequal growth, which is benefiting the large incomes of the capital and which is withdrawing resources from workers and workers because they have less jobs and because they have lower wages. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, something will have to see the Galician Union in this evolution. And so we're seeing what's done is a model of fragile integration, where, as the Foesa Report points out, 41.6% of the population in Greece is in a precarious situation. We're talking about one out of every five Galicians, 470,000 people who are in social exclusion. I insist: these are data from the Foesa and Caritas report, which I imagine you won't believe they have a Jewish alliance to criticize Galician Union. And you also know that this reflection is very interesting, too, when you look at the debate we have today about what is that orientation of your policies. Who is responsible for this report to have created this situation? For it points to the financial crisis, the loss of employment and the austerity policies experienced in the last decade, which are responsible for increasing social inequality. And you come here telling us that, being champions of austerity, they were able to create a better Galicia. No, no, they're leaving a more unequal Galicia, and that's a responsibility of the People's Party. [[Applause]] Nor, ladies and gentlemen, did you succeed in defending public services. We'll talk ahead of health, education or dependence, but I'd like to focus on something like what exclusion is meant in the realm of housing. And here I want to go back to the data given by the Foesa Report itself, which is saying that the housing right now in Galicia is the primary engine of inequality and a key factor in the dynamics of social exclusion. And in view of that, what we see is that, rather than betting on public housing policy, the Galician Union continues to cut in this area. So the conclusion is very clear if we take into account the reports, the official data and the reality that is currently living in Galicia. And it is that, ten years after the People's Party's rule, the Greeks and the Greeks don't live any better, they live worse, as a result of their neoliberal policies. And what you can't continue to excuse yourself in this situation, in which there was a crisis, or also constantly resorting to the past. It is true that there has been an economic recession, but it is also true that the Galician Union has managed a very important volume of public resources for these ten years. We're talking about the responsibility of managing over 100 billion euros over ten years. And the result that they leave us is a more precarious Galician, with less employment, with emigration, with an industrial and demographic crisis, with public services touched and with a tripled debt. Because you speak wonders about how well they managed public debt, but the fact is that your government tripled the public debt across the country. Well, the third story he told us today is that these budgets have measures to deal with the economic crisis thanks to the 2021 Xacobeo. And I think this is a better portrait of how you don't have any industrial policy or economic policy, they reduce everything to a tourism policy; by the way, speaking to us about the year 2021, as if we haven't had a lot of problems in Galicia today. And they have to explain to us — because they didn't do it in the expenditure debate and I see that they're not doing it now — like, in an economic framework in which many uncertainties are being discussed at the international level that will affect exports and trade, Galicia's board makes predictions where Galicia is an island and nothing that affects us. We are already having a fall in exports, we are having a fall in the IPI, and we know that the international context has black clouds in relation to important economic sectors. We don't know how that trade war between the United States and China will end. We don't know what the final impact of the brexit will be or how all the imperialist aggressions that the United States is carrying out in Venezuela or Iran can end up influencing the price of oil. Well, in a frame of such uncertainties, where there is talk of an economic downturn in Galicia, there is a miracle, because none of this affects us. I don't know if he can explain it to us. And above all, I think it's very serious that you in your intervention had not made a reference to the industrial and economic crisis that is affecting our country and what measures will put the Government in place to solve it. We have a serious problem and we do indeed have an industrial crisis in which the People's Party and the President - as always - are not responsible for the debates in Parliament. They are responsible because Galicia today has less capacity to intervene financially. They dismantled the Greek financial system, which runs from the boxes to the Banco Pastor. They're complicit and responsible for giving over nine billion euros to that Bank that ended up destroying 5,000 jobs in Galicia, leaving plenty of municipalities out of supply. And what they tell us is that you have nothing to do or any alternative. The result is that every year more than EUR 20 billion from this country's emigration of Greek savings, and they do not provide for any public instrument to act. For we say it clearly: the Greek public bank, to end our savings policy. [[Applause]] I'm also responsible for allowing the industrial dismantling of Galicia. We have seen how during the last few months the industrial crisis has affected companies from very important sectors. Together has done absolutely nothing to save Isowat or to save Poligal, more than 200 jobs destroyed in recent months. We are seeing a shift in employment in Galicia, a trend that has already taken place in many sectors, and now, for example, it is affecting the communications sector, R; a thousand jobs at risk in the country and Junta don't find out, it doesn't take the phone. Or we have the last scandal, as it might be that a company like Naturgy, which depends and does so much business in Galicia, has just said that he will leave four hundred workers and workers in the United States in Ourense. And what does Joina do? Ask Naturgy to keep that job? No, no, you award it with a millionaire contract instead of being defending employment in this country. They are seen to be more pendant than to defend Galicia's future. [[Applause]] No action against relocations. We also have a major naval crisis, and the People's Party has responsibilities. He has responsibilities in Ferrol, because when they ruled in the state they promised the frigates a lot, but what they did was to delay them for the interests of Mr. Morenés. And he has responsibilities as well as what's going on across Vigo's fleet. In Vigo they drop Vulcan, we have the Barriers about to enter the creditors contest. And what is it you're proposing to Galician Vigo? Competing by the lights. He's a true disincentive, a true disincentive, Counselor. And what is entrepreneurship is that Mr. Feijóo gets profiled, like the Barreras crisis doesn't go with Galician board. Of course, he doesn't go with Galician Union when he took part in a full election campaign, broadcast by the public, telling us that the salvation of Barreras was Pemex. What remains of all Mr Feijóo's promises? For what remains are lies, your friends are charged with corruption and there are also thirty assistants in crisis and a thousand jobs at risk. What solutions are there to that? [[Applause]] None, Mr. Counsellor, none in their budgets, when they should regain public control of Barreras, because it was sold for misery to a Mexican public enterprise, and it would be much better if we had public control from Galicia in order to find a solution. What is not from receipt is how Mr. Feijóo did, who has the unhesitatingness to declare that he was concerned — he did so a few days ago on the board of the Board of Trustees — by the dangerous drift of Barriers and who did not understand how the yard arrived at that call without exit. The truth is, we have to have a lot of faces or think that we have no memory in this country. As we do not understand, Mr Counsellor, how it is possible that, having a crisis affecting a region like Ferrol, with the situation in Endesa, there is no alternative that arises from these budgets to put in place a fair energy transition that solves the problems in that region. So this is a brief summary of their industrial policy: they have no proposals to curb relocation, they have no proposals to curb the strategic sectors of the economy that we have in crisis, they have no strategies for the loss of Galician business fabric, neither for supporting small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, self-employed people, nor for supporting trade. And what we don't allow him is to tell us that Galicia's big bet is for innovation, because really what the People's Party Government has done in these ten years has been to put Galicia in line with innovation. That's the result of your policy in this area. The expenditure of R+D+i has decreased; if we measure it in GDP, we move from 1% to 0.86%. They have caused half of the innovative companies to disappear and continued brain drain in our country and a situation where we see how many scientists and scientists are working on precariousness, because a lot of proposing the research career but it's still not a reality. And in this country, we're still living in embarrassing situations, like there are women who have to choose between being mothers and scientists, and that's not decent or can be allowed. [[Applause]] And then we have the B face of this reality, which one thing is what you put in the figures, in the budgets, but another thing is what you execute. Because a budget doesn't stop being more than a forecast. And when we go, for example, to the level of execution, which is actually being invested, we see on land how innovation can be like the Galician Union has a very low level of execution. For example, the German Research Plan, according to the latest data you sent your advisor to this Parliament, has 70% not executed, 110 million euros this year, as if there were no needs in our country's scientific and innovation system. By the way, something that doesn't just happen to you in the field of innovation. If we take the employment breaks, we take splits that have to do with economic and business development, we see that the level of execution is very low, and that portrays that the Galician Union, rather than being an engine of industrial activity, is withdrawing resources in this area. Let's go now to the fourth story, which we've been all three years hearing that this was the legislation on rural land and zero taxes in rural areas. And I have a dilemma that I no longer know if it's like the Holy Trinity, so hard to explain, but perhaps the Counselor can enlighten us. You told us two years ago, three years ago, that in Galicia there were zero taxes in the countryside. We've got zero taxes in rural, but every time there's new budgets, they're again proposing discounts in rural. I don't know, explain how it's possible, that with zero taxes, they lower taxes in rural areas, because it's a pretty difficult dilemma to understand. They're taking the hair of the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Applause]] And we get the hair because in this rural legislation, what happened is that 6,000 dairy farms have disappeared, which in the last two years have been lost 14,700 jobs have been lost on the farm and that the farmers and farmers in this country who dedicate themselves to a strategic sector like that of milk, what they still see is how they pay the lowest prices of the state and of the European Union. That is, Counsellor, what remains of your commitment to rural life. And by the way, we don't see that commitment in budgets either, because if we actually compare what they're dedicated to in 2019 with what was dedicated to in 2009, we'll see how there's 18% less rural funds and what they put on paper are not even so capable of executing it. We have a demographic crisis, of depopulation. There is a game for rural population-fixing policies and the result of their commitment is that since 2016 more than 305 million euros have been left out and that this year, in which we are, in 2019, 91% of the funds for rural population-fixing are not being implemented. They're not even able to develop the budgets that you approve. And then we could talk to another sector that has a lot of weight in Galicia's economy as is fishing, which we see in 2019 has a 37% less than a decade ago and with a level of execution that is also very low at all and each of the games that have to do with support for the fishing sector. And as time runs out for me and there are still a lot of questions left to comment on, let's go to the fourth story, which is that of which these are the most social budgets in the world and that the Union has not cut off all these years in its social policy, but has kept it standing. When an analysis of where the cuts were centred, what we see is that the cuts essentially focused on health, education or housing policies. In fact, the accumulated cut is very important. And that's what's causing it is that today we have more waiting lists in health care, that we have problems because the waiting list is not only in specialty and consultation, it's also in primary care; that we see how in health there is a real rebellion in all sectors against its cuts, and that we have such dramatic situations as to see that there are people dying in this country because of the lack of enough resources to handle them. That's the portrait of your social policies. [[Applause]] And as I told you, besides having in these budgets unacceptable cuts in areas such as housing access needs, which is a problem that is becoming more and more serious in this country and affecting especially youth, which sees that it is an impossible mission to be emancipated. And the answer you give to this youth who wants to be emancipated is some budgets where there are 62 percent less housing funds ten years ago and where, despite being told that they're going to make a strategic commitment to rehabilitation, what we see is how rehabilitation funds fall. I mean, they refuse to intervene in an area where public intervention would be key to solving the imbalance that is causing speculation. So we don't see social politics, we don't see a bet to fight gender inequality or the fight against masculine violence, it doesn't act against the pay divide, it doesn't act against the feminization of poverty, it doesn't act so that there's public resources in order to be able to reconcile, nor is there enough means to deal with one of the most serious problems our society has, such as male violence. We know what their contribution is: to deal with that extreme right that denies the existence of gender-based violence itself. [[Applause]] And then both in one aspect that is relevant to a country like Galicia. We are a nation, we have our own language and culture, of which we should all feel very proud and proud and, above all, fulfill the statutory mandate that says we must support the normalization of our language and the dissemination of Greek culture. And what does Joina do? So I'm going to summarize it in two figures. In linguistic normalization, you spend 60% less than ten years ago, and in culture, investment is almost 50% less today. We see that you also have a Galeguism that is simply a varnish, but that you really have no commitment to what most binds us to all the Greeks and to the Greeks. So, and by way of conclusion, we understand from the BNG that Galicia needs a change of course that does not offer these budgets. Moreover, the presentation that you have made and the content of the budgets is a matter of concern and must be a cause of concern to the whole of the Greeks and the Greeks. A cause for concern because we see a government that is exhausted, because we have many indicators that tell us that there are risk situations if no corrective action is taken, and because we see a People's Party's Union that does not have a future agenda that is in line with Galicia's challenges and current trends. We see that the Government has no vision, no initiative and no illusion. The Union is just a matter for you to survive the People's Party. But at the same time, we continue to say that there is another possible Galicia, that in this country we have a promising future if we are able to change course, and changing course means making politics differently. And, of course, to tell them that, by many lies and stories that bring us day after day, we have not lost hope. And there's hope, because there's another policy possible, a policy that doesn't bet on tax gifts to higher incomes, as they do...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u12	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u13	...—end—you in these budgets, with deductions for the purchase of second houses to speculate, while you do not meet the needs of first houses, or with that scandal that you exempt from paying not a single penny to whom you can inherit a 1,000,000 euro heritage. Of course, it is unfair that a person who receives in an inheritance 1,000,000 euros does not pay anything, while a worker or a worker who has to live and pay his bills every day with wages of between 12,000 and 20,000 euros has to pay 24%. This isn't fiscal justice, it's injustice, and you're ruling for a minority. There is another fiscal policy that can be done, in the same way as there is another economic policy, another social policy, a policy of environmental care, respect for women and our dignity and support for our language and culture. You lose the opportunity today to recognize that there are serious problems that are not being cut short and therefore correct the orientation of these budgets, but I am very afraid that they are bottled up in their own lies and that they want to close their eyes to reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Joint Left Group, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u15	Good morning. Today we hear a speech that doesn't correspond to the reality of our country, at least in the reality of citizenship, where we live on this side of the House bench. It's not true that the economy leaves the recession thanks to efficient government management Feijóo. It's not true that we've already recovered the level of employment and welfare before the recession. It's not true that Galicia converges with Spain thanks to the greatest economic growth. It is not true that the 2020 budgets are expanding. It's not true that public debt will be reduced next year. It is not true that we have recovered the level of expenditure prior to the crisis. And it's a lie that tax cuts benefit most of society. None of this is true, on the contrary, as the balance of the Feijóo government decade demonstrates. This is the last budget of the legislation, that's safe; I hope it's the last budget of the People's Party. That's likely and desirable, especially. In any case, we are at the time of making a balance of the ten years of Government Feijóo since 2009, because that trick of comparing the figures with the year 2014, which is when the economic cycle phase changes, is a common trick. The PP has been ruling for ten years and therefore it is to value that lost decade for the economy, employment and well-being what we want to do. I'm going to make a synthetic balance, as synthetic as necessary. He made it happen to history because he's the president with the worst figures of economic growth. The average annual rate of change in GDP in the last decade was 0.4%, ten times lower than the average rate in the previous two decades. He made it happen to history because he was the only president to leave the Government with fewer jobs than he had when he arrived. Today there are 54,000 jobs less than ten years ago. Nor is it true that there are more women working than ever -- to see if anyone can pass the video to President Feijóo -- Women employed today are 6,000 less than in 2009. Confusing membership with occupation is a mistake you shouldn't make a president. Galicia is the autonomous community with the worst evolution of employment in the last decade; it is not among the worst, it is the worst of the 17 autonomous communities that make up the Spanish State. He made it happen to Galician history because in his presidency the participation of employees and employees in wealth has reached its lowest value since statistics exist. When he arrived in 2009, 49% of GDP's wealth was allocated to wages, in 2018 only 40%, 3.800 million euros less in wages; a fundamental reason for the unacceptable increase in inequality. He made it — we're in a budgetary debate — he's going to go to history because he's the only president who cut the budget. As has been said here - we have spent 40 years of budgets - for thirty years the budget grew year after year with all the presidents, it only began to fall in 2010, when Feijóo made his first budget, and it will come out with 2,000 million euros less public spending than when he arrived. I'm gonna give you a minute now to... is that it? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He's going to go through history as the president who owes Galicia the most, because in the ten-year term of office public debt increased twice as much as twenty-seven years earlier with four different presidents. As we get into the budget, I want to start by saying that we don't share the criticism that these budgets are electoralists. That they're going to be electoralists? There's nothing illusion to society in these budgets. They're not electoralists, they're bad! They're bad because they don't serve to cope with the changing cycle of the economy; they're bad because they follow the path of tax cuts to the richest, negatively affecting both the adequacy and the fairness of the tax system. [[Applause]] They're bad budgets because they continue the neoliberal strategy of reducing the public's weight in the economy. They're bad because they don't include any measures to solve the most serious industrial problem we're suffering from. They're bad because they don't respond to inequality, poverty and work insecurity. I'll tell you. We are faced with an irresponsible government because it accepts the cycle change of the economy in a resigned way without doing anything to prevent it. The growth rate of GDP in 2020 will be the lowest since 2015. In 2016 the Greek economy grew by 3.4%, but the estimated growth for 2020 in the macroeconomic framework is 1.9%. We are faced with a serious threat of slowing down the activity that affects the whole of the European Union and which can even worsen in the coming years. In this scenario of concern, the problem is diagnosed in the 2020 budgets, but no alternative is proposed. That's why we say he's an irresponsible government, because he renounces the responsibility of ruling. There is a broad consensus that monetary policy is no longer resorting, that it is time for fiscal policy and that different levels of government must act in a coordinated way to cope with the weakness of growth. However, today's budget is not going in that direction, but quite the opposite. Non-financial expenditure is going to rise by one tenth less than nominal GDP, which is going to give up developing an expanding fiscal policy that serves to boost the economy, to combat slowdown and to prevent an unlikely but possible return to recession. This is a basic concept. A budget is expansive when it grows more than nominal GDP. When the budget increases less than the nominal GDP is not expansive. The 2020 macroeconomic framework includes the explicit recognition of the fallacy of the growth model, of the healthy growth model, of the stability of the Greek economy. Galicia grows when it does the state as a whole and slows down when it does the Spanish economy — like Burgos, like Castile-Leon —; there is no more management of the Galician Union. The 2020 budget also highlights another fallacy, that of growth based on external demand, of which the Union so presumed. Because the foreign sector, not exports, has a negative contribution to growth in 2019, but also in estimates for 2020. This is the reality behind the triumphal speech on the evolution of competitiveness: the external sector will not contribute anything to growth, which again depends exclusively on domestic demand; that is, on household spending, on investment and public spending. To understand better, what will boost the growth of GDP in Galicia is not exports, but wages, pensions and the budget of the Union. That's why we need an expansive budget, along with the increase in wages and the fair revaluation of pensions, because they are the fundamental tools to combat slowdown. We need an expansive budget, which grows above nominal GDP, to cover the huge hole in public accounts caused by the decade of austerity. On too many occasions in this House it was intended to hide cuts in public spending using a common trap, to compare data from different periods without taking into account price developments. That's a crude trick, unacceptable in a serious economic debate, and today we have to hear it again in this House. It is not true — I have said it quite clearly — that the non-financial budget for 2020 is now approaching 2009, it is not. In nominal terms, we're still EUR 395 million below, but in real terms, when inflation is taken into account, we're at a huge difference, there's still EUR 1,958 million left to recover the level before the recession. As a recurring debate, it makes sense to hold a moment on this issue. The accumulated inflation since 2009 is 14.5%. To compare the 2009 figures with the 2020 figures, we need to take this price change into account, because anyone knows that if 2020 has the same salary as it did in 2009, it is having a huge loss in its purchasing power. And the same is true for public accounts, which in real terms is EUR 1,958 million less than in 2009. Two billion euros is the figure that quantifies the cut in a year, but as you've been cutting for ten years, the cumulative figure of the cuts when I calculated it at the top I was impressed. Because if we add up to what they cut in 2010, in 2011, in 2012... until 2020, we reach a figure of 26 billion euros. I'm going to say it again because it's not easy to assimilate: the sum of the cuts applied by governments Feijóo in the ten years he's been ruling is 26 billion euros. Obviously, it is a counterfactual reflection, but how would Galicia with these EUR 26,000 million invested in health care, education, industrial policy, rural policy, the environment, culture, equality, fisheries, social policy? This decade of austerity and cuts is a huge reversal of what it will take decades to recover. They suffered especially social policies with cuts, which account for about €900 million over the year 2009. It's not true that we spend the same in health care as in 2009, it's not true! In health we spend 218 million euros less; in education, 300 million euros; in employment policies, 209 million euros; and in housing policies, 162 million euros. The 2020 budget continues the neoliberal path of reducing the weight of the public because the budget — again I say — will increase less than nominal GDP, and hence the weight of the public in the economy will fall again. It changed the formula, but the austerity follows. In the recession, spending fell nominally, and now it's growing, but it's done under GDP growth; we're moving from hard adjustment to fine adjustment. More wealth, but less public spending; more wealth, but less resources to finance health, education, social protection or investment. The result is a loss of public weight in the measured economy through the ratio of public spending/GDP. In 2009, Junta managed 18.6 % of the wealth produced in Galicia. In 2020 that ratio did not reach 15%. It's a retreat of almost 4 points, equivalent to 2,500 million euros. And this is another year, the fundamental question: why if, since 2017, the level of wealth, measured through GDP, is above what was there before the recession, we have less resources for public management? Why? We have the same level of wealth, why are public resources significantly below what was in 2009? The answer is simple, as hard as it is: because the incomes of the capital were defiscated, the corporate profits, the great estates, because there was a tax desertion of the rich who reduced the public income and imbalanced the distribution of the burden. The budget they present today is the best example of this defiscalizing practice because the rise of the minimum exempt from succession tax from EUR 400,000 to 1,000,000 is a measure that benefits a small minority, but it has negative consequences for the majority of society, because it affects both enough and above all fiscal equity. Is it socially and fiscally fair that a person who is the daughter of a couple in a winning system who inherits — they care — 2 million euros pays the same thing as another who inherits 15,000 euros? In the previous interventions there was a person who inherited 1 million euros, yes, yes, but in a family of earnings a person can inherit 1 million euros from his father, 1 million euros from his mother, which would be 2 million euros, and not pay anything. Can a constitutionalist defend that this form of taxation complies with Article 31 of the Magna Charter, which says, "They will all contribute to the support of public expenditure in accordance with their economic capacity through a fair tax system, inspired by the principles of equality and progressiveness..."? We live in a state where there are too many part-time constitutionalists, constitutionalists who only know an article of the Constitution. This star measure in the tax relief speech is joined by the decision to lower the type of property tax. Inheritances of €2,000,000 and assets exceeding €700,000, exempt from taxation, middle class for the People's Party. A statistic just made public shows the consequences of policies applied in the recession. Since 2010, the number of millionaires in Spain has increased by 500 percent, from 172,000... yes, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It just released this statistic, which says that the number of millionaires has risen from 172,000 to 980,000. It doesn't seem that the crisis was the same for everyone, it's unacceptable. Remember a moment or year 2010. Then they began to implement the policies of austerity on the imposition of the Troica, they began to cut wages and rights, because we lived - they said - above our possibilities. While the vast majority of societies have suffered profound deterioration in their living and working conditions, the number of millionaires has multiplied by five. I say that the people who have the responsibility to rule the Spanish State and Galicia at this time are accomplices of that assault on society. And that's why I say the crisis was a scam, it was used to provoke a deep network of distribution of wealth against 99% and in favor of that 0.1% minority. There are richer, but they pay less taxes, because the fiscal policy that has been applied these years and that remains present in the 2020 budget has a deep conservative bias, because reducing taxes always benefits the richest, and cutting public spending always harms the weakest. In the intervention of the adviser - who I take advantage of is not going to talk about it - said something that abhors a social mentality, and is: we will continue to lower the direct taxes on wealth and wealth and therefore - I say - we will finance what is to be financed by indirect taxes such as the VAT, which are tax-injusted. Counsellor said: Succession tax has disappeared in Galicia. Of course, that's his job: making tax reforms for the benefit of the social minority, reducing public resources available to governments and, at the same time, disbalancing the tax burden, because taxes increasingly pay them to the working class, the employees, pensioners, because the rich, those who have high assets, undermine the tax burden. Sometimes -- as it starts to happen here -- they don't need them anymore, because directly the government removes them from taxation. For us it became clear in that intervention, because we think that we have to choose; we have to choose taxation and public spending for the elite or for the majority of society. The People's Party in Central Government and the Union have chosen neoliberal fiscal policy, which reduces public income and imbalances in tax burden, so that the majority of society pays twice: bearing a higher burden and receiving worse services in deteriorating social protection. This fiscal policy is the reason why the taxes managed by the Union are the ones that have the worst evolution in the 2020 budget. By 2020, own income remains stagnant, while revenue from the financing system increases by 4% and final transfers by 5%. The reason is the usual, tax rebates, especially in tax figures that record wealth, or inheritance tax, and this year especially in property tax, which will reduce their collection by 11%. Tax policy for rich people who explain one of the anomalies of these budgets: increasing income from the state or the European Union, but lowering those managed by the Union. In the 2020 budget - we have seen here - the propaganda of the tax reduction continues to occupy a central place, yet we must make the full picture of the strategy of the People's Party these years. Income has dropped significantly, debt has increased as never in history, it has reversed public spending, which has suffered severe cuts, but there is always margin to lower taxes. I'm sorry to have to say this sentence a little orthodox: what is not paid with taxes, is paid with cuts or debt. In these years, in the black decade of Feijóo, with both of them, because the spending has been reduced to 2,000 million euros and the debt has increased to 7,500 million euros. This is the legacy that leaves Feijóo to the Government that goes into 2020: an budget cut in 2,000 million euros and an increased debt of 7,500 million euros. That is the balance, the glorious balance of fiscal policy, budgetary policy and the economic policy of the Feijóo governments. I'm going to say it again: by 2020 the public debt won't go down, it's on the contrary, it's going to rise in another 173 million euros more until it reaches 12 billion euros, the highest figure in our history. Next year, Junta will issue 1,692 million euros in new debt to pay 1,519 million euros that are due this year. This is the reality, asking for new loans to pay the loans they win. The consequences of this increase in debt are that each year we have to allocate more resources in the budget for the payment of it. In 2020 we have to allocate 14% of the total budget to the debt service. In 2009 it was 3%, function 91; under its mandate, it multiplied its weight by five times in the budget. So here's some counterfactual calculation of what's going to happen to the debt if we behave... counterfactual, let's make it real. In 2009, each Greek and Greek owed 1,250 euros, each of us owes 4,350 euros today. Since you rule, per capita debt has increased by 3,100 million euros. That's what we have to do, because that's what's under your responsibility. Other autonomous communities may have a worse result, but theirs is already bad enough. The budget project we are debating today is a lost opportunity to reorient the budgetary strategy, to leave austerity behind, to recover from the cuts, to bring us closer to the level of public spending prior to the recession. He changed the cycle phase and changed how to apply austerity. We have passed from the nominal cuts in the expense that the spending grows below what wealth does. Therefore, the resources to improve the life of citizenship are increasingly low in real terms. In front of resignation, cuts, permanent adjustment, we say we're at the moment we need to reorient the budget strategy. Because 2020 is the sixth consecutive year of GDP growth since 2014 changed the phase of the economic cycle. And we ask ourselves the question: if it is not today, after an economic cycle, of a six-year high stage, if this is not the time to recover rights, to recover budgets, to recover resources, to recover from cuts in health and education, when will it be?, now, that begins a phase of weaker, softer growth? Obviously, it is not possible to address this challenge in a single exercise, so we propose a gradual process over five years to achieve this goal. In the amendment that our group presents - and I will explain briefly - we not only criticise the budget policy of the Union, but we offer a different alternative of revenue that it aims to start by 2020 this path of recovery of public resources, so we think that revenue should be increased, budgeting, non-financial expenditure, at 560 million euros; a budget strategy that requires more revenue, because our country does not have a problem with over-expenditure, has a problem of lack of income. We propose a four-year strategy -- I mean -- which starts in 2020, with 560 million euros, for which we propose to act in four lines of action. First, an increase in State resources, acting on the system of self-financing and also on instruments for territorial rebalancing. This is one of my favorite debates in the budget: to remember what was the deviation in the estimate of the revenue on which budgets are built in the Galician Union. Over the past four years, the average income deviation is 338 million euros. It's a systematic underestimation, induced by the Central Government, which decreases by too much, 338 million euros, the income forecasts on which the Board was building its budget project. And we say so, Counselor, you don't have the corsis of an estimate made by the Central Government, you have the responsibility to do so. And we told him that an estimate made more rigorously than it is in the budget project would increase by more than 350 million euros the revenue derived from the autonomic financing model. Secondly, we propose a package of tax measures aimed at increasing the collection, acting on the tax figures that already exist and creating new ones. So we propose the environmental damage tax, the large commercial area tax and the large owners of empty housing. They all seek, I say, to increase the collection, but also penalize activities with negative externalities and inadequate economic behaviour. The third axis of action we propose is a selective and weighted minority of the current level of profits, bonuses and tax exemptions. It seems clear that if the tax benefits in the 2020 budget accumulate EUR 451 million, it is possible to reduce them by acting on the highest-income taxpayers and thus improving both the supply and fiscal equity. The fourth piar is a reinforced inspection plan and fight against tax fraud -- it's over -- The application of this strategy would increase income by EUR 560 million in order to implement an economic policy that fosters growth based on the productive economy, which would transfer the greatest wealth to the most well-being of citizenship, combating inequality, precariousness, poverty and exclusion. Finished with the expression of a wish: that this is the last budget of a right-wing government in Galicia, because the wave of change in the state will also arrive...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u16	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u17	...in our country and in 2020 there will be a left-wing government that will leave as a sad reminder the black decade of the Feijóo governments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u18	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Lago. We moved on to the next group. Mr Fernández Leiceaga has the floor for the defence of amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u19	Good morning to all of you. Counsellor, we are not going to be able to support this budget either, your last budget, at least, of this legislation. We will not vote, because in our view these accounts do not provide a proper response either to the necessary momentum of economic growth, specifically the industrial crisis that you yourself consider to be a central issue in Galicia, for the reduction of inequalities or the creation of employment and the strengthening of public services. There are other measures more ambitious than those envisaged in this project that we are dealing with today in this House, and to explain our position, I will make twelve observations. The first one, incidental. I think I should review that budget count. If we link the budget to the functioning of the Galician Parliament, the first that is approved in this Parliament, which we should mention, is that of 1982. Approves, besides, as you know, December 30th. It has only one day's vigil, but it refers to 1982. Budget No 40, the fourth budget of the Galician Union adopted in this Parliament, will be the year 2021. I feel you can't celebrate that budget, surely. They're going to decide on it by the citizens and whatever they're president of the board, but in any case, those are the real accounts. And what you mean by 1981 was the fruit of a pre-autonomous president who had not been elected by this Parliament either. I'm not saying that this defuses your capacity for anything, but to need what happens. Second comment. It's not an exceptional behavior, it's already said here. You must not come to this debate disguised as a superhero layer, because it doesn't correspond. The poetics entered in the document evokes exceptionality. You yourself spoke of "Galicia different place," and I would use another hit of the time: "Bad times for the lyric." These are not good times for the lyric in Galicia, Counselor. But the truth is, you, by presenting this budget, all you do is fulfill your obligation. If you hadn't presented this budget, what would the citizens think?, what would your own cabinet colleagues think about a government that has the absolute majority, that has been ruling eleven years in Galicia and that has the precedent that a government of its own political sign in Madrid is not formulating the expenditure ceiling? Well, you guys came here, formulated yours, and shot forward with the budget. What would you think if, in a year before the elections, you hadn't done this? This counterfactual leads us to the conclusion that you simply do the ordinary, what you have to do, how other autonomous communities do, at least those that have, as in their case, absolute majority. They're converting normality, which is to present a budget, into the news, and that must mean they don't have too many good things to tell the citizens about it. Third most important element. The board boasts singularity, different location. But, actually, what's best in this budget, and what's best in the budget policy that you've been doing, comes from the decisions that others make. You take advantage of everything: when there is a government that, according to its approach, if wrong, fights against it, but when that government itself does something that is beneficial for citizens to assume as their own and sell it as if it were the great novelty. You look at the budget document. You've been pretending for many years here that Galicia is from the communities you've most visited, and that's true. It is true, but this is the same with all those communities that are part of the Objective 1 regions, which receive European funds - in the case of Galicia, around 500 million euros each year that must nurture investment or capital transfers to companies - that receive an interterritorial compensation fund and that receive various funds, which are the ones that feed that investment. If we remove these singular amounts and we go to the effort that the Galician Union makes with its own means or, in any case, in relation to the level of debt, it turns out that the behaviour of the Union with its own means is purely ordinary behavior. The Galician Union should not put on medals for something that does not depend on you, such as the European resources and the resources of the Central Administration - thanks, because it is a constitutional obligation - to arrive in Galicia. You assume from the evolution of domestic demand, you do it in the macroeconomic framework, but it turns out that one of the determinants of this evolution, as is the evolution of pensions, was against the criteria that the People's Party has been exercising in Madrid these years. And in Galicia, it's not just that updating pensions is beneficial, but that the differential updating of minimum pensions is probably the most beneficial community. In the case of the minimum wage, existing studies indicate that it is a basic support for the evolution of wages, and it is the newly benefited autonomous community. You criticized this; you criticized this, but then you assumed your results. That's where is the great trick of your policy, because in pensions, in the minimum wage, in all this, where is the responsibility of the Galician Board, Counsellor? In any case, to oppose. But if you do, what is most modern in budgeting, what is more unique, what connects better with some of the major social debates, such as the fight against gender violence or housing policies, which improve something in the last two years, is the result of agreements that are made within the general administration of the State with the autonomous communities, which means the contribution of greater funds from the entry of a new progressive government into Spain, and which you take advantage of to strengthen those policies. The serious thing is that on many occasions that doesn't mean that you put more resources than those you're putting on, and then the improvement of those policies is the sole result of the central government's approach. The Galician Union is also not responsible for that, as in the case of Xacobeo. The increase in funds for Xacobeo in 2020 is financed in full by the extraordinary funds from the central government's granting of tax benefits. How much additional money do you put your own funds to Galician Union for Xacobeo in the 2020 budget? Zero. This is the reality. You are presuming of decisions that others make, and of course, it is very easy to invite with the king's gunpowder, but it shouldn't be what he had done to the Council of Galicia. Look, one of your most obvious milkmotives in these years is the savings in terms of interest. Financial policy depended first on the implementation of the FLA and after the Financial Facility Fund by the Government Rajoy-Montoro. The Galician Union, late and losing resources, welcomed those funds, which allowed a substantial downturn in interest on the debt that existed. In addition, Mr Draghi's financial policy made it possible to strengthen the banking system in Europe, as well as the Spanish banks, and that makes it easier to lower interest rates in Europe and Spain. So, in that case, where is the contribution of the Galician Union? The only contribution -- and it's real -- is that debt has increased under the middle of autonomous communities, but everything else does not depend on you, and yet they make this a great battle horse. In any case, as you well know, these incentive policies through the FLA and the Finance Facility have benefited above all the most indebted communities, and we can do the math. We know that Catalonia, Valencia and Murcia are the ones that have benefited most in terms of their inhabitants. I mean, the policies that Mr. Rajoy and Mr. Montoro set in motion for this have harmed Galicia, and that's what you're really saying. It is a subject that will have to be disabled within the new model of autonomous financing for the proper functioning of the market. But something more important still in this sense: what about the pace of growth? Economic growth was slightly lower than that of Spain throughout the whole crisis, in accumulated terms - I have the data here, but they don't deserve much worth - and it has to be said that with a profile that looks so much like Spanish that it's indistinguishable, even if it's slightly below. So Spanish economic growth acts as a support for what's happening in Galicia, but it also acts as a limit, as a upper limit in this case, because we're a little below. If Spain cools, Galicia settles; if Europe goes wrong and Spain has problems, Galicia also feels. Obviously, we're not saying anything that's too extra. As a curiosity, it must be said that since the state of autonomy exists, convergence in the rate of growth in the Spanish regions has increased, rather than diminishing, which is curious because it increases, in addition, self-government, but nevertheless this happens. All right, that means the solidarity mechanisms that support unity in the whole of Spain work. I mean, we need Spain, we need Europe, we need them to do well, and what you're doing here has little to do with what the Galician Union does and has more to do with the Spanish and European economic growth. Fourth comment. If it turns out that growth is a little below Spain's, how do we explain that there is an approximation of income per inhabitant, a convergence -- in any case, moderate -- in the last ten years, of between 2 and 3 points? For only because the population behaves much worse, with much less dynamism - exclusively, exclusively -. Yeah, yeah, I can teach you the graphics, but, well, I don't know if it's worth much. This is GDP growth, this is population growth in Spain, and this is Galicia. [[Mr. Fernández Leiceaga shows some graphics.]] It's just that smaller population growth in Galicia that explains the approximation of income per inhabitant, all of it, and even a little more, which means that if we had a behavior, in terms of birth, like that of the Spanish ensemble, there would be no convergence and if we had a behavior, in terms of immigration, like that of the Spanish ensemble, there would not be convergence. It turns out you assume from the results of a policy that says it's a problem, which is Galicia's demographic regression, but then you assume from the results. They're capable of bragging about everything. We do not share, therefore, its diagnosis in black and white, where all the shadows are for Spain and all the lights for Galicia. We don't think there's any catastrophe in Spain. Things don't go as well as they were two years ago just because the whole euro area and the entire OECD area is entering a slowdown, but Spain continues to grow at a higher rate, we have external surpluses and we continue to create jobs. Homes and families have a high level of indebtedness, but reasonable, in comparative terms, and Spain also grows in a balanced way, reducing the public deficit, expanding social protection and increasing wages at a higher rate than since the beginning of recovery. In Galicia, you only put the accent on the lights, but there are also shadows, a very important one has already been quoted, and I can't resist saying it. His first major failure has to do with insufficient job creation. Don't tell us here... If we go far back, at the beginning of recovery, we can say: we create so many jobs. No, the reference must be Spain. We grew up just like Spain, a little less, but we created many fewer jobs, and in women's jobs it's the same. If we do the measurement as we should, in terms of hours worked, the results are even more discouraging. So we have a problem, we have a serious problem that we've been dragging for years, because there are fewer opportunities for young people who join the labour market. Of course, unemployment figures support comparison, because the incorporation of youth is limited and therefore the active population is also adjusting, but if we had a few more generations, we would have a very serious problem with unemployment, too, because we are not able to generate the job that that that generation needs. There's a selective output: the best, the most trained, those who have less risk aversion, the ones who have more contacts abroad, the ones who have more income. And that's not good, because that means we're losing our capacity for entrepreneurship and human capital. We are acting worse than Spain in matters of occupation and in matters of female occupation. We're three or four years behind, also in the primary sector. We lost 40,000 jobs since the start of the crisis. In the industrial sector, about the same, we have lost 40,000 jobs, which are justly in the primary sector, and there are exclusive competences and there are European funds that should allow us both in the field of fisheries and agriculture to do much better. And we can't. In view of this, what continues to stand out is the poor management of employment funds, which we have seen marking here year after year and which are unable to solve. The year 2018 saw Program 322A, a level of execution of 51%; 323, Training for Employment, 45%, year after year. We could say something like the data on September 30 by 2019. You said employment was your top priority — it was in last year's debate. Well, then, that means, first, that you failed, and, second, that the budgets you present are -- you said in Spanish -- a trapping, because what you present here and we approve has nothing to do with what happens next in reality, because the level of execution is too low year after year. They have a problem. The second major failure after employment is that they are unable to capture enough private investment. If we want to increase employment at the level of Spain and at the same time gain competitiveness, we have to invest more than we are doing, and they are not able to. If you look at it, the wager for productive investment is a failure. I will give you three indicators quickly: firstly, the evolution of gross capital formation in terms of national accounts in relation to the gross surplus of exploitation and mixed income. Until 2009, gross capital formation had evolved in parallel, slightly below, because there must be consumption and also savings. But since 2009 the gross surplus of exploitation only suffers from the crisis and today is far above that level of 2009 while gross capital formation — not public, public and private — is well below. It's logical that he'd come down a little because he had to clear out, he had to pay back the loan, but not up to this level. If we could recover the levels of this whole expansion of the first decade, we'd be growing above 3% today, and we're not doing so. But it is that the credit-deposit relationship — which measures us something of this too, even if it is very indicative — says that Galicia is the worst that behaves in terms of credits in relation to the population or in relation to GDP, while in deposits we are very good. That means the financial system is sending out some of the savings that are generated in Galicia. As the other indicator says, we have exported human capital — little, but we have exported some — the most qualified one, and we have also exported capital; and that is the big failure of this economic policy that you have been carrying out for a long time. And in the foreign investment of multinationals, a recent study promoted by the Ministry of Economy indicates that Galicia has about two and a half percent of the total, well below the weight of our population or the weight of our GDP. Still eliminating the thirst effect — it would therefore be measuring the immobilized ones — we would be at 3%. We have a serious problem in your investment capture model and therefore the growth impulse; and that is the great failure that the Galician Union has in these years. This budget also highlights the difficulties of its industrial policy. You've been putting in the industrial crisis for months one of Galicia's serious problems and looking for a culprit outside, but it turns out that in industrial policy you have very relevant competences, and so you might expect that in this budget we will come to a reflection of all this with a great deal of effort in industrial policy. However, when we analyze the accounts and look at where there is a reflection of that reflection, we find very little. And, look, Europe has recently published a report on regional competitiveness. Galicia is at 197 in 2019 on European regions. That's not the dramatic one, the dramatic one is that in three years we've dropped 16 posts. And you do where we have the serious difficulties, where are the deficiencies: at the top level of education, in efficiency in the labour market, in sophistication in business, in the use of technology and in commitment to innovation or infrastructure. You see, most of them — not all of them — are the competences of the Galician Union. And what does the Galician board do in this budget? Do you heed those indications? Very slightly. And, in any case, well below what would be necessary to say that it is making a paradigm shift in industrial policy that allows to deal with the serious problems that globalization, decarbonization and technological change will provoke all over the world, which we have to anticipate in order to win the future. And then I don't see that you in this budget make it easier for you to enter and do a specific job of picking up external investment and raising the size of the company. Look, in the Basque Country — an autonomous community that has more resources than we do, but which, in any case, has similar competences on this land — are putting in place various funds to enter the capital of some strategic companies and get them not to leave. Well, it's an important decision, in terms of industrial policy, of a party that is generally considered to be central right and that you could emulate, but they're not in it. They are implementing more ambitious policies and policies with more resources. None of this is in the Budget of Galician Union. Nor is there a policy of promoting knowledge applied. We would have to improve the STEM competences in languages, we would have to reduce school failure and dropout, beyond what is done by the very negative evolution of the labour market, which is what has made it easier for dropout rates everywhere in Galicia. We have to provide educational centres with the highest autonomy; to promote educational efficiency, without a doubt, and above all to reduce the gap between the skills acquired and those demanded by the labour market and society. And here we don't see you doing a thorough reform of your policies, either, as it would require Galicia's growth. R+D+i is not just a matter of volume of funds, but also, because the R+D+i funds have come down and are now beginning to rise, but we are still, in terms of GDP, in the middle of the Basque Country, well below the Spanish average and still below -- in terms of proportion over GDP -- of what was at the end of the last decade. There is therefore a resource problem, but above all there is a resource orientation problem. You must be able to modify institutional structures and incentives. Of course, we have to promote quality, we have to go to activities that have a broad common knowledge base and we have to do a lot more things than they are doing, and different things, because if we do the same things, we won't get the best results. In terms of infrastructure, the resignation of the Galician Union is alarming. We need a better infrastructure policy, not lower the funds, and above all use them. If you look, Counselor Ethel Vázquez — who was here until recently — who is very critical of the other governments, it turns out that when we look at his budget we see that what he's doing is mostly intermodal stations. But it turns out that at the intermodal stations about two-thirds of the funding comes from outside. So you do very well what others finance, but when you see what's going on with Plan Move and the infrastructure that's directly dependent on the board of Galicia, you see she's an expert at reprogramming. And year after year, like the bad students we see on the lists that end up getting tired of us, we attend. In the VAP The Ramallosa-The Road, last year was planned to execute 8 million, they are not executed; it was planned to budget this year 8 million, and now they go down to 2 — that's what happens. It was planned to end in 2021, now in 2026... we rescheduled, but it's always the same works one year after another, without us seeing that there's a real commitment to what is being done. This is what your Infrastructure Council is doing. That's why it's not strange that you have lowered your budget amounts; it's normal, if you don't run it, why? But it would be better for everyone to execute it, perhaps by changing counseling, and that you should not have lowered them but strengthened them, and that's not the case. [[Applause]] But also in the state of well-being their policies are very insufficient. In housing - exclusive competence of the Galician Union - failure is total in programming, in execution and in results. Of the 2,000 protected housing started in 2009 we moved to 9 to 2016-2017. Of the 9,000 qualified homes in Spain in 2017-2018, only 16 were in Galicia. Failure that feeds the abusive renters, the inability to cover the demand for access to protected housing and an absolute lack of commitment to the promotion of public housing in rent schemes. And the changes that exist are those that promote central government and finance conditional transfers in its budget. In health care, we have just presented a strategic study led by the Health Council on the needs of primary care. And what he says is that we have to establish a maximum of consultations per day, to offer contracts of higher quality, to limit extraordinary situations to the blocking of schedules, to strengthen staff frames in places with more burden, autonomy of health centres, to empower primary care and provide it with a specific agency, to plan the generational relief... I, when I read this, said: but if this is the program that we have seen driving since the opposition and that repeatedly it is not that the People's Group denied it but that it has systematically voted against all those measures that we have proposed in this sense or other opposition groups! Well, don't stop being curious. And the problem is, we don't see anything in the budget that supports this strategic reflection. If there was a real change in your health policies, welcome would be that change, welcome that ratification, but with budget. If they do not do so, as in other areas, what they are doing is a facial wash for the autonomous elections of the year 2020 by then—if they win, they won't win—to continue doing the same thing as they have so far. For that reason, Counselor, you should do something else and not take the hair away from the citizens, but also from the trade union and professional organizations, who call for a dialogue and then wake up one day and find out that everything is arranged on the other side. They continue to insist on a regressive and ineffective tax policy, which is ambitious about others, but very little about themselves, and which is also very regressive. It has already been discussed here — I have little time — but I just want to insist that many of the tax benefits that are recorded in the budget consist of small gifts to already selected contributors, but with an added ironic effect. Not only are they socially regressives — as has already been explained; I will not insist, I agree — but also have no effect. See, in the IRPF, acquisitions of shares, creation of new companies, investments in the alternative stock market, donations to research centres, investments in agricultural enterprises, etc. —which are bonuses, some of which are provided for in the IRPF—are a small resource for the public holding of EUR 673,000. The collection policy defined someone as drawing feathers from the chicken with the smallest number of possible shins. You're doing something backwards, but it looks like this, which is picking up some grafts with the greatest amount of publicity impact possible. And that is part of that policy of little effectiveness. In relation to social regression, of course, wealth is more concentrated than income. Wealth is concentrating much more in recent years, and yet you, instead of correcting and mitigating the functioning of the market, which leads to the concentration of wealth, what you want with your tax discount is to increase it a little more. We'll discuss this afternoon a little more about this, but, in any case, tax policy also leads us to say no to your budget. I'm done. We'll vote no. We will vote in favour of the return of these budgets because they do not respond properly to the main challenges: neither to the impulse of economic growth, to the decrease in inequality, to the creation of employment, nor to the necessary reinforcement of the welfare state. There are other more ambitious, more important measures, with other priorities, than those envisaged in this Budget Project, as we will explain this afternoon. For this reason, I'm telling you that you won't count on our support, Counselor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Leicega. Mr. Martínez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u21	Thank you again, Mr. President. [[The councillor of Fairy puts and accommodates the papers in the rostrum of speakers.]] The bad thing about years is that we've been looking at things getting worse. It's not bad to celebrate years, eh! [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] You know that other times we've talked about these issues. Times are not identical, but we've talked several times, and regardless of the opinions of each, I really appreciate once again the formulations introduced by each of the voices and voices of the four groups, and also the suggestions they made. It is true that, humbly, we have always analyzed what they tell us. Obviously in a lot of things we won't agree with, and I'll try to explain why, I'll try to respond in a more or less orderly way. One by one, each of you, this might be a little longer. Obviously, what I have to do is try to defend why these accounts and not others. And with these accounts — and don't look at it, please, as an act of prepotence — sometimes how to fish — we are from the sea — we have to split, shoot to catch, don't we? It's really amazing. Some group referred to what "Pedrafit Fog, the isolated continent" means. I start here because to me concepts are very important. In essence, what we were trying to move is that Galicia keeps its course. We explained them and could match them or not, but we didn't fool anyone so much into the first strategic plan, which was truly a very important shift in the situation of deep crisis we had, as well as in what started in 2015 by 2016, and until 2020. I think it's good. We know that we're not the champions of the world, as some of us are trying to move. But what is clear is that in the Union, within its powers — which are many — we try to introduce economic growth by approving budget year by year. I do count forty budgets, I do count. And it's basically not so much, but we framed it -- we always considered it that way -- in what was the autonomic period, in the autonomic time period. And more than anything to pretend in that they were forty years followed by budgets, more than anything to make fincapé in what was the size of a purely administrative budget at that time, with an equivalent of 10 million euros and a little more than 200 effective. If we finally stick to our fingers and don't look at the moon, we're going wrong. It was basically what we were trying to say. Fog in Pedrafita means that, from all this situation, what we have to have, first of all, is pride. And from my words they can't deduce in any way from the actions of this sovereign government. No, no, one thing is pride and pride. And pride must have developed a lot. Because, besides, our model thinks it's a much more resilient model, right? — "word" which has been for about three or four years, especially since the economic crisis. We think it's more resilient. In essence, what we're talking about is the exercise of self-government. Okay, said this, what do we find in front? What we find in front of us is uncertainty in the environment. Does anyone deny it in this Parliament? Does anyone deny that the institutional blockade we are still living in Spain today is true? Does anyone deny that the Central Government is holding the bottom of autonomous communities? Does anyone deny that we are transposing any red line in autonomic funding and that we are even giving wings to certain sectors to question the state of autonomy itself? Does anyone deny the European situation we have for the Brexit? Does anyone deny — and with my words both in committee and here — the world economic situation? No way, if we have anything, we're very much aware of where we are. And where are we? It's another common theme that is widely used by the opposition, by different oppositions. There's no opposition, and, coming to a hypothetical case, I think they would have been pretty hard except for one thing, which is to throw the beans. On the other hand, from what I've heard here, things really are up to antithetics. But, well, let's go aside and see if I can refer to each one in an orderly way, to all of you. That we're at a stable growth stage from an economic point of view, I don't think it's so hard to understand either; especially because "stable" means that we're in an environment of 2%. What we are in the environment of what is the potential of the Greek economy is also true. That we're in an environment where our nearest horizon, Spain, has similar results behaviors, but there's no different components either. We don't have to be a very common person in economic matters to realize. And it is also true that the real and nominal growth that is presenting our economy is greater than that of the "euro economies", and so it is demonstrating itself in convergence, to which I shall now refer. So since all this is true, why has the Central Government hidden this reality from us, which has just been corrected by the European Commission in no less than 4 tenths, as well as fiscal deficit targets? Why, if this is so much advantage, as here just introduced by the spokesman of the Socialist Party regarding the action of the new Government, if you hide this reality of 4 tenths and you have to teach it in a very clear and traumatic way what it means? It has just commented here too — although even in writing it was more clearly — that the average parameters of the Greek economy, as a result, are not very different from the Spanish ones. Obviously, several times we've talked about the concept of "relative autonomy." Nor is it to get so far, nor is it to get so much fog in Pedrafita. Let's go! Why do we deny that domestic demand this year 2019 is the engine that pulls from the Greek economy, and with a value far greater than the Spanish parameter — because the explanations given here by the increase in minimum wage and the increase in pensions, etc., are also produced elsewhere—? Why isn't he pulling similar tension? Because there is a differential factor within demand, which is not as much consumption — which too, because with consumption we are talking about trust — as about the other. There is a government that, likes or dislikes us, comparatively more — that I will also try to refer to within a moment — executes what it says, spends, and moves on to public consumption and moves on to capital formation with a very large differential value. And it's not so much that funding comes from European funds. State funds, very little, by the way. Because, if it is true what has just been introduced here, even if it is purely discursive — if it is true what has just been said to be non-infrastructural execution — how would some groups expect it if the budget not born of Mr. Sánchez's government reduced by 40% the investment in Galicia? We must maintain a certain coherence. When we talked about certain issues of infrastructure size and complained about infrastructures that are not running in Galicia, we should look at them with enough temper. If we add up another question that has just been introduced here, and which also powerfully calls my attention, there is no need to be — as it was said even in commission — a great economist to look at these things, what to have is a normal intelligence, to face the issues with humility and to look at the breakdowns. When we look at external demand, we realize that the first seven months of this year 2019 are the ones that are correcting and pulling the result down, the result -- it doesn't have to be too guessy -- that's going to get close to the two with ninety and something -- that comes out to us, so we're at 2%, in figures that have been backed up by Airef; for something to counteract this data, to avoid incurring mistakes from the past. And so what we have is an external demand that was presented to third countries, because the main external demand that Galicia has is the rest of Spain. You don't have to be smart about that either. A situation of political and general economic atony on the whole also conditions us very much. But in third countries, right now, there are three components, of the four main components in which they are broken down, which are corrected today, thanks to the work of the Union in a direct way — not in all cases, but also —. The only thing that was supported throughout 2019, through the policies developed mainly in the Economic Council, was that forty percent, forty percent, and few percent, of small and medium-sized enterprises in multiple countries. But there's a very important factor that is currently being corrected, which is the purely statistical factor in a large textile company. There is another purely corrected factor that announces is a good future, such as the situation of PSA-Citroën in Vigo. Let's be happy about that. And there's another factor that was purely seasonal, which was the situation we have in the Coruña -- or that we had, because it's already practically corrected, too, which was that of the refinery. And that has an impact, in addition, of 52%-53% on the set of exports and imports. Therefore, to say that we have an external demand at this time conditioned was true, but it is already beginning to correct itself, or it is corrected, at the moment. But that's what puts us in a clearer way by 2020. The most important thing, therefore, is that we continue to grow stable, that we continue — and there must be no kind of plinth — to be evaluated by those who have to evaluate us, and who consider our prudent estimates of economic growth. And for what I'm interested in, as a person, even more prudent in what it means to increase employment. So in this situation, suppose we're going to have 9,000 more jobs is a prudent estimate of what we know today, that's what it's worth. The other thing would be to get into certain things that don't come up with the case. Of all this, what it is deduced is that it is false — because it does not only influence demographic issues — what is said here, which is the criterion of convergence. The convergence criterion with regard to the European Union is a clear criterion that is taking place. We recovered what was lost at the crisis stage, we have enough value to say. And I think more and more, because this places us as an autonomous community, coming from below, in intermediate stages at the moment, compared to other autonomous communities. Let us bear in mind that in 18th century convergence with regard to the European average was 8 points. It's very important, you don't earn 8 points, about one of the sectors with the most global economic development, blow and fuck. It has to be evolutionary in nature, and so it is. And what about the Spanish average? Certain graphs are again presented, aren't they? It turns out that we have the maximum history, which is 90.1% reached last year, and we have to ask for forgiveness. And as for centuries, too, at different times as for centuries, with different governments. Why don't you recognize him? We cut 12 points from the average. I think that's the best summary of the triumph that, as a Galician society, we have at the moment. Why don't we have that pride enough? And when we looked to the side, it turns out that in 2000 we were 17 out of 19 -- between autonomous communities and autonomous cities. In 2008, we were 12 and we were able to overcome Asturias. It seems to me that Asturias has a demographic component similar to ours, which is different from government. I don't mess with the government, I say "demographic" when you talk here. And Valencia, which has a different demography and which has ruled us in a different political color. Where are we? Where we really are right now we're at 10th of 19th of 19th and going up. As far as I know, 10 out of 19 is half. And going up, because to the lad, if we have what we have, it's Cantabria. It will also have to study once again the quantum factor of the rise it takes in 2018 with respect to any other of certain directors of certain institutions. Well, what does that allow us? It's important to keep in mind, too, and mark another tape of what's always talked about here. And since we're on a certain level of dismissal, on a day of dismissal, it's also good to look back. It's not bad when we refer to 2008 and 2009. It depends on the case, and I'll try to explain myself. It turns out that, as compared with the average Spanish in 2008 was 87.4 out of 100 per capita GDP, we have the index no 2018 no 90.1 as I said earlier. We're raising 2.7 points about the relationship to other autonomys, and we're the second most growing one after the Basque Country. We already want to have the resources of the Basque Country — in size; as an organization, no —. And that's why we also have to apologize. You will understand that you don't have compassion, because this truly is the great triumph that we, as a society, have presented since the beginning of autonomy and, in a very accelerated way, since the beginning of this century. By the way, in the first 20 years of autonomy we only grew by 3.4 % in convergence. Something we'll have to be doing right among all of us, and this government too, when it's producing itself. Another of the issues that you can never understand of our words — and even my words, being so much given to talk about as they are — is the matter of unemployment, employment. I'm going to talk about unemployment, employment. I'm going to try to adapt to my development, because I was here -- and many of you too -- when we talked about 80,000 to 100,000 new jobs four years ago. And what was said in this Parliament — some people are no longer very qualified — what was said then, you would have to hear it. And this has its correlation, obviously, which is the size of the unemployment. That we're in a deceleration context with regard to the previous stage, no one since this government is going to question it. Never again deceive us!, as was the case in 2008 and in part in 2009. We don't do it that way. I suppose, as I'm telling you, 9,000 more jobs for the coming year, I think it's a prudent but always positive estimate right now. Because what you're telling us is that we're going to get to 10% in the last quarter of next year and maybe we're going under. That's very important, 10% under unemployment means 90% of the employment rate. We can use a number of types of sources, but I'm going to have one that I think, on the Spanish and European comparative level, must be common; not the only one, but the usual one. And it's nothing but the main data. I'm not going to stop at all — it's impossible to give the size and format of this budget appearance — but there's a data that repeats machaconically, which, being partly true, is not in the magnitude at which you are facing at the moment. And we always talk about it. And go ahead, that from my words you can't deduce, in any way, that you feel happy, that you feel happy with the whole situation that I'm going to describe, but you have deep nuances of a positive character. And I'm just going to look at four EPA data to put catastrophic messages in relation to each of you in an interested way to move on to this issue. This government, as far as I can tell, entered the Galician Union in April, practically in mid-April, of the year 2009. In mid-April 2009 very well matches the intermediate data that transfers us to the second EPA — let's follow the EPA. I think that's a good argument, isn't it? EPA, with its eyves, is very well in comparative terms, and it's certain statistical consensus that I think needs to be improved, never obvious or differentiated. If I do so, it turns out that the assets were 1,319,600 — rounding—; the busy ones, 1,152,900, which gives me an occupation rate — so the percentages are made — of 87,4 % and an activity rate — which is how we have to measure things, since we are talking about people who want to work, and less bad than we are in a civilized state, 16 to 64 years old. And the occupancy rate was 72.05%. By the way, the rate of employment had fallen in previous quarters — since we have 87.4% — in 2.5 points. He was already running. Isn't it true we were in crisis? Year 2019, third quarter EPA: 1,249,200, with 1,105.007 occupied. Actually, less than 1,152. In no way do those fifty and so many say, but even buying that kind of argument. I'll recap it again. Occupational rate: 88.5%. As far as I know, greater than 87.4%. Unemployment rate: then it was 12.6% and now we have 11.5%. And we even have to apologize. And it turns out that we have the activity rate — 14-64 in the third quarter EPA — at 74.1%. No 74.1 % of this autonomous community has never had an activity rate of 16 to 64. And we have to keep asking for permission. [[Applause]] You know like me that we can never suck enough because there's a lot to improve, because we're finally talking about people who want to work and don't have, but another thing is being able to contextualize everything in their value. Another issue is that of precariousness, that of working precariousness. Being all better -- I'll never be the one to say otherwise -- having 3 out of every 4 employees as undefined already fades things a little bit; and having practically 9 out of every 10 busy with full day already fades even more. But we go to the other great thing to want to go, to the other catastrophic message, in my opinion, which you often introduce. With nuances, again, since we're talking about half, but what measures! It turns out that usually people work because there's a salary that pays it back, there's a salary that pays it back. It turns out that in 2009 — data from the National Institute of Statistics — the relationship between Galicia and the national total — the average annual, I don't know if the average of you or the average of us, but, let's go, I take that data, I can take that from 2008 — was 88%. The average salary of Galicia — which people work because they want to have a salary to make their life as they want — was 88%. It turns out in 2017 — and I'm telling you that in 2018, we know, and what we know about 2019 are going through the same shot — Galicia was at 91.4%. Again, do we have to apologize to someone for improving? It turns out, since there was a crisis, since we started to get out of the crisis, we were at 88.4% -- it's very similar to the first one we gave -- and now we're at 89.3%, 91%, 91.4% and going up. But do you not see that the average wage that is moving, having, secure, many difficulties in certain groups, which represents as a means of society that goes along the right path? Is it that hard to say? And don't we all find out that this is also telling us where the shots will go in the convergence of what I used to talk to them about, per capita income? What to say, once again, of the many data we use when we talk about poverty and exclusion! It's very bad to talk about poverty and exclusion. With which there was one person, or two or three, we'd really be wrong. Why don't we look at the glass by the comparative term? Why do we not see that, when the risk rate of economic poverty is 18.8%, it turns out that the national average has it in 21.5%? And yet we have to give explanations, explanations, explanations... of course we have to do better, but we contextualize things. If we talk about severe economic poverty, which we have in 4.8%, has dropped 2.3 points from what there was a year ago — data from 2017. It turns out there are currently 60,000 less people in this situation than those in 2017. But can anyone be glad there's only 60,000 less? No, but there's 60,000 less. And it's a point below the national average. Well, you'll have to go on. It turns out that if we have the AROPE rate, at the risk of poverty, at 23%, three points below the national average, we also have to continue to apologize. And it turns out that it's 1.5 points smaller than the two-party government, in economic favor, had in 2009, when it left the government. And it turns out we have to keep apologizing. I apologize for each of the people who are, but not for the example that you can apply your policies and results to those who have led. [[Applause]] I apologize because, according to the Galego Institute of Statistics, it turns out that we have a population at risk of poverty and social exclusion — far too high for me — of 543,000 people, indeed. But it's less than 80,000 of what we had when we started with the strategic plan, and with which we're 83% of the target we were marking at that time, and that will never end as an objective until, as I tell you, these amounts are really marginal. So being the correct strategic formulation, being well-directed, we must not, in any way, congratulate ourselves. The same thing happens with a mantra that always repeats. This is a mantra, to some extent a dangerous mantra too, Mr. Leicega. Because if emigration is supposed to be the best prepared, otherwise it means that the dumbest are left here. Don't call the others stupid, eh! [[Murmurs.]] It's a worrying thing about that kind of reasoning. [[Laughter]] Wouldn't it be easier to think there's a lot of people coming out and they didn't want to go out and some people coming in and maybe they didn't want to come? [[Murmurs.]] But from all of this, what it turns out is that the migration movement is positive for the global and positive for the young. It turns out that at the Feijóo stage more people come in than they do, and the boys come in more than the ones that go out. By the way, again, again, we can go to the official data. It turns out that the year that most young people emigrated was in 2007. I honestly promise you that in 2007 we weren't in the Government, I honestly promise you. And I honestly promise you that there was economic goodness then, indeed! [[Applause]] When we look at this multifactorial question, what we're saying, the most important thing is that in the Feijó era -- so many times said, and now I'm going to refer to something else -- it turns out that 297,971 people emigrated and came to 337,583. As people, I all deserve the same consideration, but this gives a positive balance of 40,236. Of course it hurts me everything that's gone and, wanting to be, it's not here with us. But you'll understand that when you analyze the data in its magnitude, that message that you're trying to throw into society is totally wrong, not saying other things. Another one of the mantras that I have to listen to — what sometimes, with my character, if almost like nails — is that of when they teach lessons on debt. On the subject of debt is that it's really incredible when there's references here. What is undeniable is that this Autonomous Community, since 2008, has had the best evolution of its debt. What is undeniable is that the restrictions on public income that we suffer from autonomous communities were of such magnitude, until 2014 inclusive, which made the use of debt become a resource that is no longer necessary but compulsory in order to maintain all the services that we normally provide by autonomous communities. But it still turns out that our propensity — which means for the future — has been smaller than in any other autonomous community. That means, yes, that we have 4 billion euros less in the size of our debt. This means that our citizens have much less to pay than the vast majority of citizens in Spain. Other times I've been listened to in this House — and I can't agree with the messages they're moving — that Galicia's debt in clear terms is now being settled. I believe that this year 2019 — if we were left alone and what has to come, which is from all the Greeks and all the Greeks — would be the first time that in absolute terms we would not increase our debt this year. I shall now refer to a few questions of trileirism, which we have a lot on this subject — some and others —. We have the flat debt, in its size, with an average kind of interest that's at 1.3%. And if you bring me here the treasure of Spain, if you're so smart, with a sort of average interest smaller than ours, please tell me, because I haven't found it yet. I say! because, if you're setting here as an example the great management that make certain pops on the Madrid level... Don't be mistaken for the levels of Madrid. I repeat again in this House that our entry was at the right time in financial facility. It was a matter that had to do with the debt structure, with markets blocked but with a political issue. At a time when the system of self-financing began to be discussed, it was the time for us to enter and make ourselves a debt size that, before certain discharges or similar solutions, we could have. In an orderly way, what we did was put about 60 percent of our debt in that situation, which has to do with more politics than with the economy, too, ahead of them. So already since this year 2019, and in subsequent years, there's an orderly exit to the market that's moving two questions to us. First of all — as it is settled and at the age of ten — types of interest mostly — vastly majority — fixed, which will give us a next decade in the environments of one hundred thirty-one hundred thirty-million euros in interest, which is what is costing us our debt. So it's totally flat. And let's go to a purely methodological question. I have often heard in this House say that during the government of Feijóo it multiplied by three times its debt, which multiplied so much. I humbly tell them we can't cheat alone, and I explain. Now I will also speak, if you leave me a moment — if not, a little later — of the references that are always made to the years 2008-2009. When this government arrived here — April 2009 — there was an budget that estimated a loan of EUR 600 million — rounding. Before any comparison to the current moment — which is compared here too — when this resource is in sixty-two million — what we do for next year — you will understand that you cannot grasp and whistle at the same thing. You have to have a little clearer orientation than you're saying. In addition, it turns out that this so careful, so cutting-down government of President Feijóo — since we are at least from that one with him — is such a cutting-off government with a brutal collapse of what was the income in 2009 in all magnitudes, not only in those that have to do with the financing system. It turns out that almost 600 million euros of debt ultimately increased the debt by over 900 million euros. I'm not talking about that anymore. What is clear is that, if you, when you run a budget, and the result of 2009 cannot be found in this government, but in the previous government, the only thing that was running was an budget that already included 600 million euros — rounding — in debt. If we do so — and I'm not going to turn the Bipartite in when it does so in 2005, it's the reference value — if we do so, it turns out that there are 1,477.2 million euros found in the Bipartite — four years, four years — plus 2,2 billion euros left us on duty, and that we, because of institutional loyalty, continue to assume that this does not take the benefit of inventory. It turns out we have to apologize again because for four years 3,677 million euros have been financed in debt, at a rate of almost 920 million euros per year in four years. It turns out that this government, so careful, has risen to 6,483 minus 1,158 — which is what we have somatoized today of these 2,200 — and it turns out that it gives us 530 million euros a year from average in ten years. I apologize for 530 as well as 920. Once again, how can you be playing with numbers in this clear way! And the most important thing — since then we all have — is that it turns out that yes, that yes, that we were here in Galicia the third most indebted up and now we're here the fifth least indebted below. I apologize again. [[Applause]] Reduced taxes for the rich. I don't think there's so many rich in Galicia, man! But if we call them rich in Galicia the 350,000 Greeks who benefited, for example, from the discounts that at that time, in 2016, we introduced to succession tax... right? Or 400,000 euros, anthem!... I think it's a lot to call them rich, I think it's a lot to call them rich. I wish we had so many rich in Galicia! I don't miss anyone who's rich. What I don't want to have is poor, it's different approach. [[Applause]] It turns out here it's said, even today, that of the famous free million. It turns out that today — as far as I know — the current responsible — of the Socialist Party, Andalusia — the current manager of a business in function — she is perhaps a partner within a few people, and so does the million. But what are we left with? Is it bad only when the People's Party does it? And when they make it determined...? [[Murmurs.]] You can't have those kinds of questions. Wouldn't it be better to analyze and consider that there are different models...? By the way, the most generalized model is an evolution of what we have given ourselves in 2016. It is not to be confused that the tax benefit may be 99.9 % of what is about the set of each declarant with which it may be that all the debt, 99.9%, is benefiting. It's not the same, don't get me to explain this question here, because the difference may be, believe me, of billions of euros at the moment. Thousands, thousands...! Zero taxes in rural areas and generally. Can anyone in this House say that it's wrong for us to lower the taxes on housing for young people, for large families or for people with disabilities? So, what are you saying? And it turns out these three collectives don't pay anything when they're from the ZPP and rural. I think that's a very important measure. And we keep going. It turns out that now what we're going to do next year... what kind of head is that, given the current level, where the second hand purchase in the ZPP, except...? Welcome to the club, welcome to the club, because little by little it was allowed... to study and to know that in Sanxenxo there was no ZPP, which were the first words... welcome to the club. That means we already know what the ZPPs are. It's good that there's also a coastal scope ZPP, but it's still ZPP if we apply the methodology defined by the ZPP. Don't be afraid. And we're going to what this kind of policy means as well. Does anyone have anything in this House against having to fight the abandonment of homes in general, even on the coast? I don't think so. Does anyone think that favoring rehabilitation beyond urban boundaries has anything wrong? Does anyone think they're bad, to dynamize the rural environment, people who have a second residence and often access them, revitalize economic life, and social life too, or help them, while they realize that those who live in rural areas also exist, we also have a certain level of intelligence and a certain degree of concern about what rural environment means? Give me the impression it's not bad. Nor is it bad — and it is always about moving — the question of the rich. And as far as I know, the fundamental issue of all the taxes we pay is in two places: IRPF and IVE. By the way, we don't have any kind of competition in the VVI in a direct way; and in the IRPF, yes. And when I look at this from the IRPF, it turns out that the Autonomous Community, for the coming year, proposes a new green deduction. I know you don't like to talk. I know there's no autonomous community at this moment. I think it'll also be a modern and future line. And it turns out, when we talk about the IRPF, too, again... of course, there's news that then we're bitter about existence. But we also have some good ones. It turns out that the average effective type we have in Galicia — in our competition, in our part of the tariff — is the third lowest in Spain. It turns out it's the third lowest in Spain and that it clearly benefits the 70% we have in Galicia of our wages. And hopefully, I hope they're more, not that 70%, but that they're more and more people who cover more effectively. And for 80% -- or 89% -- it turns out we're still, in average terms, in the first three or four places in Spain. But who are we talking about? If we're aware that there's more than 1,400,000 IRPF declarants, it turns out that we're talking, in one case or another, so let's imagine 70%. What are we talking about, of over ninety-one thousand people who year by year have the average effective type of IRPF lower than in Spain? By the way, who has him lower than we are two autonomous communities: Madrid and the Canary Islands. Madrid is the totally different example, because the option, in effective terms, is that historically in the Madrid community goes via IRPF; and in our majority, it goes through direct subsidies, as is happening in the case of school transport, school dining, etc., etc.. If we consider it this way, we'd look at what kind of advantages we're giving each other. And in the case of Canary Islands, their situation and the special tax regime allow a lot of action that at nothing can be compared to what absolute themes are. Examples of tax benefits that are criticized here. Can anyone say that the birth aid and the large family must be reduced or eliminated? Of course. What is the easiest way to minimize, for example, the issue of child care? What we're doing, what we've already started in an accelerated way for next year. The second children in Galicia won't pay daycare. Obviously, if they don't pay daycare, the decommissioning falls into the IRPF, it won't. But before you give that deduction, you'll have something generalized. Wouldn't it be much easier than, instead of playing the cat and mouse, with pledges from the central government, the autonomous government, the local government, we all agreed a little bit -- and we first, go ahead -- in relative magnitude to assume and generalize on a time horizon, shorter than long, all these kinds of issues that we're going to fill up with and then we're not able to realise? And there's another question that's already at this first stage... I don't know if I've been taking too long. How much do I take? Excuse me?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u22	I don't know. About 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u23	Because there's another classic that has to do with the year 2008 and 2009. Let's go to another classic. Then we apply the deflators they want, both IPC and whatever they want. It turns out that the non-financial expenditure was EUR 10.538 million, actually, and this year we still have 10,149. All right, all right, all right! Isn't it bigger than each other? Of course! Turns out I've already said it. So the debt resource was 600 million and now it's sixty-something. If we do so — before applying any deflator — then the amounts start to look a little bit more like the amounts. All right! All right, all right! Let's take a step further. Because what can't be said in this House is that debt is bad, that the increase in Feijóo stage multiplies by three to the debt, and, on the contrary, I'm comparing the 2009 budget with 2020. I suppose, after that -- 1 900,000 times -- the budget has a cost, but it also has an income. Normally it should be the normal and desirable tonic, balanced. Can anyone in this House say, after ten years, that the revenues of the year 2009 were not painted, only by the financing system, only by the financing system, at 1,600 million euros, as were the other 600 in the year 2008? How can one question be compared to another? Let's go further. And that's what I'm going to say, they all know, and every public employee we have in Galicia, who they were. But those who were not also awake because they suffer him day by day. What is the only cut in staff matters that survives in this autonomous community, in any other, in State administration and in local administrations? Government Zapatero's clipping, famous these days for statements of the last hour as well. It turns out that in this incidence there is no need to ask the people of health too much — as long as we talk here about health — what it means year by year from the year 2010. That's right, if it's Feijóo's time, is the culprit Feijóo? No, I suppose he'll be guilty. It's EUR 67 million, and we keep comparing this type of figure. It turns out that in education, where it was percent more sensitive, it was 109 million euros. And we keep comparing the numbers as we like. As well as in the matter of pharmaceutical efficiency, something you don't want to talk about the intended opposition groups, about efficiency. But do we not realize that efficiency is one of the major issues that we must always, with great intensity, apply to ensure equality and equity? That's the most important thing. So it turns out that, in primary revenue, extra-hospital pharmacy, we had a loan of EUR 883 million — by the way, spending was almost a thousand — and at this time we have 740 for the coming year — of course it is a quantity that is very close to what is going to reach the [...] —. [[Intelligible.]] And it turns out that we have to apologize for being able to lower, on credit, in almost 150 million euros. Sometimes -- and we'll look at it in the afternoon as well -- it turns out they're talking about efficiency in potential staff. But as someone can say in this House that, today, having 22% or 23% less in any staff expense, we must apologize! As someone is not yet able to know that at this time we have nearly 5 million euros less in renting and all that if so...! Which IPC are we going to apply to that, or what deflator? We're totally torturing the figures, because I repeat that from the balance that was in the 2009 budget, reality said it wasn't, and the incomes were painted. I can't compare totally different situations, because it was the ones that made us face for so long, until 2015, the recovery that takes place in the autonomous community. In summary accounts, as here so much is said about health, I'm going to give only a few brushes. In health care it turns out that, with the correction I just told you, only from the primary pharmacy -- the "sickness" -- they don't involve us -- the per capita expenditure was 1,292. And now we have it in 1,527, 18% more. Apply the IPC you want to do that amount, huh! It turns out that in this legislation, which brings us here today, we grow 17%. Don't let me apologize for that. In education, with a very high component in Chapter I, which distorts any situation, it turns out that what we get from the comparable figures is that in the legislation we grow by 14.8%. It turns out that, as far as I know, education has two factors: teachers and teachers who teach and girls and children who purposely have to educate. It turns out we had 4,189 euros in 2009, and now we have 5,003, 19.4% more. Don't make me apologize for this too. Does this mean that in education we don't have to improve a lot more, and even see, indeed, any propensity that may exist in certain places of effective and such hours? Of course, in an orderly but not in a pagan way, all against the Union and others from world champions. In action and social promotion — of what we are always talking about, and we are no longer talking about the children's schools, of all the resources available or of the 60,000 attended that we have in Galicia — it turns out that we had an budget of 570 million euros. And now we have 821, with an increase in this 27.8% legislation. But don't you see it's huge amounts that you can't... It is impossible to reach certain conclusions. In R+D+i, of 142 million euros in 2009 we are now in 183, and in terms of legislation we rise to 46.6%. Of course everything can be improved, but what's amazing is that, in the end, everything else has to give 100. It's impossible for any comparison term, we're on the antipods of what was at the time. So -- and then I'll keep talking, if it's okay with you -- I think there's certain messages to those who don't say them much. There's a subject that I would like to talk about -- and I'm done, it's the last five minutes I'm going to use this time, and then I'm going to talk about the debt of 700 million, which for me is what brings me here to this day. But there's a recurring theme, too, very own: that one thing is preaching and something else, really, is when we have to run. Budget execution is hard to talk about at a certain level of detail from this gallery. But let's go to specific data. It turns out that the Galician Union has, in the past year, been implementing its consolidated budget of 96% on initial credits and 93.6% on existing appropriations. They're not bad data in comparison, and that's what I'm going to say. It turns out that, when we analyze the current expenditure — which is really the essence of any autonomous community, because we are large service providers — the ratio on initial credit is 100.9%, and 96.8% in total current spending on final credit. In their own sub-funds, percentages are much higher. And why do I say this on my own? Because, if something has the fund that is not own, the funds that come from the state or European funds are said to be largely incorporable the following year. And that's why logical sequencing has to do it differently, and that's why it's not worth it only when we consider OK, but phase D. Because it felt contrary to a D what you're telling us is a limit of expenditure, usually in calls for Chapter IV grants, chapter VII -- multiple times -- that's where we have to justify things so that they can really be released. Don't you see that these catastrophic messages that have been launching here on certain issues that have to do with innovation and employment are not supported? Because, starting with employment, taking into account what multi-year calls are, what is a D as a limit even to public spending, keeping back because we have to argue very well to get to OK, do we not realize that there are also sectoral conferences and that, when the funds that can be distributed, this autonomous community comes more funds than because more — in relation to any other — is executed? It's not that we're smarter and the rest are dumber, but where do we have to look at given this kind of complexity? And the same goes for R & D+i, which certain European frameworks take about two years to pull forward. But what I am not willing to do is take good management lessons; because, of course, here pure words, many; of realities already a little less. Because, just as I gave the data from the Autonomous Community of Galicia of 2018, to finish this first intervention, I'm going to give the data from some MP where PSOE governs, also where BNG and some other parties are also around here — although now in two bands — in some city. Let's go over there. It turns out our result is bad, and the Crown Deputy has had a 100 percent execution on the initial non-financial expenditure of the Vigilante, but it's 39.19 percent of the Vigilante. They won't expect me to have a lesson from someone who talks to them... and at their capital expense, 18.44%. Man! Some people are already beginning to understand a certain question. [[Murmurs.]] That's what I'm talking about, too. In the Lugo Deputies it turns out that the result is 53.55% over the current. I was giving a ninety-many percent. You have to have the strength of will! And capital expenditure, 35.10% In the Magnificent Deputy of Pontevedra, the result is 46.34%; and 28.45% in capital expenditure. How can someone come here and talk about if we're on Plan Move, and so on, and so on, and in their respective competences it turns out that we're talking here of 28.46%, 35.10%, 18.44%! By the way, I also say that in the House of Ourense, 47.10% of its non-financial expenditure. That's what I'm saying! When can these issues be compared? We're going to the big municipalities too, Santiago, La Coruña, Ferrol... well, Ferrol I'm not going to mention anymore because the poor had the extended budget, just like Ourense. I'm not going to ask you for explanations for approaching a 0 Kelvin. But it turns out that the great Town Hall of Santiago — changed hands, that's right, we're talking about 2018 — has a 70.65% execution on the initial. And here they don't tell me, because the municipalities are mostly large service providers too. And it turns out that the capital expenditure is 28.59%. The Coruña — it has also changed its political colour — has 79.97 % over the current and 42.56 % over its non-financial capital expenditure. The Vigo Town Hall, a paradigm for many things—lights in one and less lights in another—it turns out that it has 82.85 % on the target for non-financial spending and 59.67 % on capital expenditures. And I have to apologize for being in the '90s and something? There's something wrong here, there's something wrong here. Let's go to Pontevedra's great achievement, because here everyone does this... let's see what the data says. [[Laughter]] The data says that the Pontevedra Town Hall, about the vigent, has 69.72%; and its capital expenditure, 39.26%. [[Murmurs.]] How can I compare? Because here, I tell you, innocent people are gone. And some are objective data, the liquidation of the year 2018. [[Laughter]] There's nothing else to look at. [[Applause]] And to finish up, and that's why I gave this executional data, I repeat again: it owes us 700 million euros. They've only reached 60, there's only 640 for today: 200 of the EVI — and I know that some people don't like to talk, I know that some don't like to talk about it —; 170 million euros for the fiscal performance, Mr. Fernández Leicega, who would actually compensate in part, against us, against us, against us, the intended improvement that the non-compliant communities have, up to unsuspected limits, with those mechanisms with which this Autonomous Community, nor before with the government of the PP or now with the government of the PSOE, have not agreed. So we always have to be consistent. And you don't have to look elsewhere and abstain on certain issues. Now, of the famous local corporations, well, the elections are over, and now something we can talk about. Something we can talk about Members, something we can talk about big municipalities, which is where the loss they have today is concentrated. And I make a proposal: why don't we really all do what we have to do? By the way, I'd love it if the Block, where it has responsibilities -- at this point it's already taking me-- had already made that famous resource. Why don't you put yourself where you rule or cogbernan? Because there are many millions of euros left here; in particular, in local corporations, in our estimates, we are approaching — part of what the central government of the state has just put — nearly 40 million euros. There's also a second proposal to make: instead of giving them to the Central Government, the Galician Union voluntarily offers to which, if they come, they can use them in shared competences. I'm really telling you without any kind of scissors. But when we look at it, it turns out that there are municipalities, like Vigo, where there are almost 2 million euros; there are almost 2 others in the Town Hall of the Crown; there are seven hundred and a little thousand in the Town Hall of Santiago. And I'm still, aren't I? Of course, in the Town Hall of Pontevedra too, so that it doesn't come out of rosettes, it's over 500,000 euros. Why, like we do our numbers, don't do them to everyone, take what they have and don't leave those resources, which ultimately belong to all their citizens, are our resources to all their citizens? Then they open their mouths very much when they purposely ask the Board to put this, so that the Board, so, that the Territorial Board will pay their capital expenses as we wish. You're making mistakes! I repeat again that we are not prepared to follow that path. And what if we should be among all willing to a little bit more normal, putting numbers and knowing that no one is so right. But as a society, in the last ten years, more and more. And because we did, we deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u24	Thank you, Counselor. Round of the non-amendant parliamentary group. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to begin by congratulating the advisor and his team on bringing some budgets to the House in spite of the difficulties, despite the 700 million euros that are missing from the debts of the central government of the State in 2019, without being aware of the deliveries to the account, with sixteen months without being called the Tax and Financial Policy Council — which is the body that should coordinate these issues — and, at the same time, by presenting some accounts, for the macroeconomic context, which Airef itself qualifies as prudent, realistic and appropriate not only to the average forecasts of Airef himself but those of the independent bodies, with appropriate methodology. Indeed, there are difficulties. It was said here that all the communities were presenting the budgets, and it was said that only one of the PPs hadn't presented them. I want to remember that we were the first ones, we were of the few who met the deadline. But there are several who still don't introduce them and they haven't announced it. For example, Asturias; for example, Extremadura — which is governed by the Socialist Party — but also Catalonia, which is governed by nationalists. Catalonia is on other issues, certainly not in something so important but at the same time as normal and natural how to approve budgets. And the curious thing is that they forget Catalonia, Asturias and Extremadura. Making an interesting quote by Valeri Legásov, one of the scientists who reported the Chernobyl disaster, who in the same statements on truth — I share what Mrs. Pontón said — adds that he recognizes that he lied to the world in order, following instructions, from the KGB and more from the Central Committee of the Communist Party. I'm sorry to have to remind someone who's on the central committee of the UPG. But the truth is that the truth came to light precisely by the good performance of the press of the free and democratic society of the West. [[Applause]] It must also be acknowledged that, when autonomous communities start to submit budgets, it is an example of some courage. The president himself of the Crown Deputy said here in this House, when he came to the committee, that he had the problem of not knowing the state budgets to bring us his budgets. Well, indeed, the Government faces its responsibilities, and some do not assume them. I would like to point out that it is the first time in many, many, many years that the opposition leader does not debate on budgets in this House on such an occasion as today. Mr. Beiras, Mr. Touriño, Mr. Feijóo, Mr. Vázquez and Mr. Villares. Interestingly, today Mr. Knight didn't. I personally do not regret it, because it is true that, when rigor comes out the door, populism usually enters the window. [[Murmurs.]] But what I do want — because it is possibly the last time we agreed in Parliament's gallery for a few years, or probably never — is to take advantage of Mr Leicega's next duties to wish him luck. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] In short, budgets are continuous, and continue, as since 2014, growing in total. We have reached EUR 10.140 million of non-financial expenditure. They continue to increase spending consistent with fiscal policy that introduces tax reductions to citizens, which, in turn, has an expansive effect on the economy. They continue to guarantee and reinforce social spending and also investment. And they continue on the path of deficit reduction and therefore also the debt due to GDP growth. All this seems positive to us, and it is enough for us to reject the amendments to the whole opposition. But I would also like to refute some of the arguments leading the opposition to vote in favour of the amendments to all these budgets. First, Mr. Lago — allow me — I believe you, when you refer to the year 2009, makes it a weak favor to the country, because it is the year of the bubble. Do you think that the country can be put as an optimal reference year in which public spending is the year that exploded the biggest crisis ever suffered by the Galician society, the biggest crisis? Since the Civil War, virtually Spain had no such crisis, a crisis that, among other things — you read what Solbes said in his memories — had much to do with not seeing the crisis coming from the left-wing governments at that time, and accelerated a train that they wanted to brake but that they could not stop and that it exploded generating everything that we already know has triggered this crisis. Do you think that's a reference year? But you, besides — as the counselor has already told you — don't take into account that the EUR 10,538 million in 2009 has over 1,600 million negative liquidations, plus 600 million, practically, of debt, something that doesn't happen in these budgets. You like to deflate, and I'd like to deflate too, and if instead of 1,600 million euros we'd paint them as negative liquidations deflated today, it would be 1,800 million euros; and the 600 million euros because they would rise to almost 750 debt. That means, if we deflate the amounts you left as an official debt, but the 1,600 of the deliveries to the account you received, we'd be painting 2.550 million euros deflated; that is, we'd have an budget of 12,700 million euros but not giving up 2.550 million euros. Do you think it is possible today to approve an budget of 12,700 million euros if we include what you have left deflated? That's a chimera. It's so hot that you, who inflate your account deliveries in your amendments -- the deliveries to the account by 2020 that the state is going to make us -- only paint 500 million. They're not even able to paint the 2.550 million euros that you left us painted in the budgets of 2009. A chimera is an idea that one is shaped by something, or something that one imagines as possible but has nothing to do with reality. And you, when you talk about 2009, what you're talking about is an budget that didn't exist, it's a chimera. And I want to remember that in classical Greek mythology a chemera is a being that is partly made up of lions, partly of goats and partly of snakes. Curiously, Chemera was already a tripartite. [[Applause]] And, you're getting deflated, why don't we continue to deflate some figures? We used to say that in staff eventually we saved 2 million euros; in fact it would be 3. In high direction, instead of 7 million euros, if we deflate them we are saving 12 million euros. And in health concerts, if we kept the 2009 figure, we would increase the expenditure by 2020 by EUR 40 million — properly deflated the amount you devoted to concerts in 2009 —. Not only is it a chimera, it's not only being compared to a chimera, but at least they've recognized, unlike what happened in 2016, which we're not with electoral budgets. However, what is electoralist is the amendments to the growth of budget expenditure. You see, the Block is asking us to increase our spending by 367 million, and in 2018 we were asked for 135. It seems he's a bit electoralist, it's multiplying almost by 3 the amendment of expenditure growth. The Joint Left Group last year, 400; and this year, 560. The PSdEG, on the other hand, practically leaves us with the amendment last year, 226 million euros. Because, indeed, the PSdeG, since the socialists rule in Madrid, no longer wants to increase their deliveries to the system. That's an electoralist. The budget is actually growing 300 million euros, and that has to do with the economy's progress despite the fact that it is now slowing down — to a large extent by the inaction of the central government, and due to its inability to approve budgets and rules related to the Welsh industry. But it also has to do with the management of the Government of the Union. It's a management that leads Galicia to be the autonomous community where GDP per capita has grown the most in the last ten years. The more it is said that this has an explanation that it is not simply that GDP per capita has grown, the more evidence remains that it is a great success of Galician society. We've been in chains for six years. In Airef it was said that in the last quarter Galicia grew 2.1%, compared to Spain with 2%. In the last four years, the average growth rate is 2.7%; and Spain's average growth rate is 2.5%. Unemployment has decreased since 2009, at 21.7%; in Spain, 17%. Since 2013 we have incorporated nearly 100,000 members of Social Security. In the social sphere, household figures with much difficulty to reach the end of the month are in the lowest range of the whole series, and levels of inequality are much better in Galicia not only than in Spain but in the European average. And all this has to do with good management, with a community that closed last year with surplus as a result of good income execution; with a community that pays the providers in fourteen days, when the average is in thirty-six; and with a community that has been the least in debt over the last ten years. And so it's a community that has met and has been constant in meeting the standards of sustainability and budgetary stability. And, at this point, I'd like to say that this budget sustainability thing today has been criticized, and so is it in the amendments. The Left Joint Group says these are not the budgets that Galicia needs, as they were not the policies of draconian cuts of public spending driven by neoliberalism ideologists in Europe and followed here in a completely acritical manner by the Government of Feijóo. The Block says something like this, "a decade lost in the service of neoliberal dogma." And I would like to ask them, Mr. Lago and Mrs. Pontón: Have you read the government pact between the Socialist Party and We can? Because point 10 states that they will maintain the budgetary balance "under Spain's fiscal liability agreements with Europe". Do you know who the economic vice president is going to be? One of the ideologies of what you call "austericide neoliberalism." And I certainly don't know if you're where they were or criticize because the amendments presented them before the big hug. But the fact is that one of the issues the current government is going to say is exactly what you criticize us, which is to maintain commitments of budgetary stability with Europe. [[Applause]] Well, in terms of income, Junta continues its line of selective tax reductions to encourage activities and encourage those who need it most. There's a reduction in property transmission tax, and succession tax extends to all transmissions, practically, between parents and children. Business succession is facilitated, and green deduction is introduced for housing that improves their ecological efficiency. And here they attack the tax reforms that we've done precisely because they say they're not progressive. I think they always forget the most progressive tribute in our system, which is the tax on the income of physical people. When we arrived, the tariffs were the ones left by the Socialist Party in 2010 following the reform of the system of self-financing. At that time, the least won in Galicia, 54% of the taxpayers, who are in the frame of 12,450 euros, paid 12%. After the tax downturn we made in the IRPF, they pay -- at the autonomous rate -- 9.5%, a reduction of 2.5 points. If you follow the whole rate, you will see that all rates are lower — but the difference is lower — than the fare left by the socialists, up to 53,000 euros of annual earnings, which almost pay the same. And from there, on the other hand, what happens is the opposite: the ones who get the most, for example, 100,000 euros, today pay 18.8%, and when you left us, the IRPF was 18.4%; the ones who earn more than 150,000 today pay 19.7%, then they pay 19.2%; and the ones who earn more than 200,000 pay 20.4%, when they pay 19.8%. That is, in short, we have lowered the most progressive tax on lower incomes — even more than what the 70-percent advisor said — and instead we raise it to 1% that most resources earn from income. This, gentlemen, is progressive. This is the reform we have made. If that's what we bring you together, that we go up during the crisis, with a pact with the Socialist Party, for the drastic fall of the whole income, we leave it right where the Socialist Party left it when it recovered it after it was eliminated — and where autonomous communities that rule on the left, as can be Aragon, because we are certainly not doing reforms that increase the progressiveity of the system, because it draws powerful attention. Tomorrow we'll talk more about heritage and succession, as the Joint Group has introduced a bill on it. However, in the absence of a small amount, I would like to remind you that at the level of the budget allocation, 7.6% are direct, more progressive taxes — direct taxes rise by 7.6% — and 5.4% rise by indirect taxes; and 5.6% by rate. This tax rise for the collection of directs, of course, is not proving a regression in our system but quite the opposite. On the expenditure — deflated — in 2009 we spent 1,318 euros per inhabitant, today, deflated, is 1,497 euros. In lower education, at school, and at university, we increased from EUR 4,153 to EUR 4,717 deflated — real 5,000 —. In social policy, which was spent in 2009 514 million and now 821, it rose per capita by 30% of the social expenditure. These are the priorities, which are accompanied by an investment — I will now say where it focuses, certainly not on roads — which has to do with gross savings — i.e. the difference between current income and current expenditure — that this year amounts to EUR 968 million, which finances 55% of the investment, of EUR 1,700 million — Chapter VI and Chapter VII. In such a way that Galicia is the first autonomous community in investment expenditure per inhabitant — EUR 608 compared to average 344 — and which has grown mainly since 2009 in R+D+i, which has grown by 28%, from 142 million to 182 million; and in knowledge society, which has grown much more, 152%, from 32 million to 82 million euros. And all of this without debt. Because here the debt is, as it was said, flattened. It decreases in relation to GDP — which is how debt is measured — Then he does this, hidden, but we all know that debt is measured in relation to GDP, and it's falling. By the way, since they're going to be part of the Socialist Party, I suppose you'll be advised to do what Europe says, to stop growing the Spanish debt too. But it turns out we were the fourth most indebted and now we're the fifth most indebted. And they criticize us because we're very indebted, Counselor. I remember when the leader of Alternative Left Glaga—Logo Groupe de En Marea and currently Joint Left Group— literally called us "financial illiterates" because we did not accept their amendments to commit ourselves any more, financial illiterates! One billion euros should Galicia if we accept the amendments they presented to us at that time. And now it turns out they criticize us because we have excessive debt. Anyway, what are we going to do! On debt, in any case, I also want to say that the Socialist Party — which criticized the breakdown of deficit until 2018 — always said that we had to owe ourselves more and the State less. In 2018 he stopped saying that the breakdown of deficit between autonomous communities and the state was wrong. But what we never expected is that in 2019 what had happened was not only that they let us not only be indebted to us, but that they take away the 200 million euros of the VAT to reduce the deficit of the state and force us to be indebted by an equivalent figure to improve the accounts of the Central Administration. This is something unheard of and certainly, Counselor, we will continue to demand. And we support you to do everything you need, even to go to the courts, to receive these 200 million euros. [[Applause]] If we've taken a balance since 2009, it's true that we've been in a decade when the opposition is aggravating the country's budget policies. They said it wouldn't grow up, that we were going to have an even worse crisis. It is true that the situation is still subject to many risks, it is true that we face many challenges — economic equality, women's equality and, of course, the demographic and digital society. But despite the difficulties, which stem from many of them from the paralysis in central administration, the truth is that in Galicia we count on budgets that continue to grow...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u26	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u27	...by creating employment opportunities, guaranteeing public services and minimizing debt. Much remains to be done, and will always remain. Budgets are likely to be better, because they're a human work, which is not these budgets is a chimera. A chimera, you know, refers to unrealistic dreams or the unlikely but frightening beings that in turn hybridize lions, goats and snakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u28	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Replica of amending groups. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u29	Good afternoon again. By the way, the counsellor, in his reply, began with the fact that the fog at Pedrafita was an allegory that Galicia kept its course. We claim that the fog in Monte Pio is an allegory of a government that maintains its course and does not react to realities that it is necessary to react. So if you keep your course in front of the work anomaly and the precariousness in which you live an important part of our population, there you are! If they stay on their way, they're going before the emigration of new people in the last decade, there you are! If they stand firm with their way before the privilege for the richest in the tax cuts, there you are! If you stay on course, you're right! If they stay on their way, they're facing the industrial tragedy of electrointensives, navals, agri-food transformations, there you are! If they stay on their way they're facing the demographic tragedy and the territorial police, there you are! These are not the budgets that most of our country's population needs. You said — you have tried to choose some of the things you said between the first and the second intervention — that there is a government running what you say. And then he put there examples of other administrations, but trying to evade his own responsibility over his lack of budget execution. And he says, moreover, that, as they execute so much, so, of course, all this is money they put on the market. The opposite sense will have to say that all that does not run is something that ceases to be money in the market, but above all money for those specific programs for those who are destined. And, of course, we don't understand that you can boast of that when you left 240 million euros without running on R & D; and that you do that when the money for employment policies was 945 million euros in games in which, in addition -- in particular in this, not at all -- you can't leave for the next year. You know that some of these can't go through the next year, and that even if they could go through the next year, what we'd be in is that every year we'd have less because we'd be dragging from the previous year, with which the new budget just... It's not just work, it's housing, it's housing, it's not solving the problems of access to housing especially for young people, for people who want to emancipate from their parents' homes. It's also environment. But we were particularly concerned about business development. He didn't make any reference to that in the replica. I'm asking you to do it in the lock. What specific proposals does the Galician Union have in 2020 to deal with the situation that Ferrolterra is experiencing with the closure of the bridge power station, for example? Was that situation worth leaving out of execution last year 71 million euros? Don't you see what was going on? The problems which, for example, has the civil shipbuilding sector in the Vigo River would need to be left unimplemented? Was there no problem? Wasn't there to spend the money? It seems to us that it is an absolute disincentive. In infrastructure and mobility, there's a 70% decline practically throughout its entire stage of government, from the current government of Nuñez Feijóo. We think that infrastructure and mobility is not just or almost mainly the topic of roads. It's the mobility of the future, it's public transport, and clean public transport. Is everything done in that matter? Are urban areas and metropolitan areas connected in an efficient and sustainable manner in order to be able to say that there is no need to execute, specifically in the last year, EUR 67 million? For we are making proposals for the metropolitan areas, for urban areas, for collective electric mobility. Why cannot this be explored and these games have to be left out? We think this is an absolute disincentive. You say you've recovered what you lost in times of crisis in relation to the European Union. So the data dismisses it to you, and the divergent situation, the third, the gap that separates us from the European Union, is gigantic in public spending functions that have to do with the functioning of the basic services for people's lives, such as health and education. The average European Union is in 7% of budgets, while here is 4.5%; in education is 6%, and here is 3.5%. What are you pretending to be? It seems to us that there is no reason to assume this. This also translates into EUR 4,500 million in relation to these same public spending functions. Of course, it seems to us that this is not a situation to be happy or at all, nothing at all! Especially when you are on a stage where resources are lacking to achieve these European averages and you are giving the money by tax to those who do not need them, for the tax gift on the tax channels. This seems inappropriate to us. It seems inappropriate to us, we think that this should not be done this way, we think that these resources are needed, that these spending functions are necessary to use them and equip them better, and that it is necessary, therefore, that taxes are not lowered to people who have the greatest wealth, just like those of successions. We diverge completely from this system, we don't hide. In tax fraud — man!, also with available resources — the European Union averages 18%; here 22% of the economy is submerged. It's four points, four points here, which is billions of euros. Why don't you get more resources? We have made proposals in some of the amendments to the matches to improve the fight against tax fraud, against the submerged economy. Well, we were expecting some reception from the government because it was in the government's own favor. It was getting more resources without raising taxes. Then it was something they could assume perfectly. With regard to the drop in taxes for the richest, apart from what you — with all that you've extended, which you didn't have a watch — you've spent quite a little time, so passing stitches, you know that it's a matter that is complicated to explain socially. The fall in wealth tax is very hard to explain, very hard to explain, because most people are not affected by that more than in a sense, and they stop receiving, via Galician Union, amounts of investments that could be receiving if these people paid what they had to pay for. So say, in the case of the estate tax, who was affected by this download. Come up here and say it. Which normal people received that tax deduction in the case of property tax? And in the case of succession tax, the same. What kind of people are they who are now exempt and who were previously paying? Tell us which one. The normal people, in the sense of economic mean, in no way; the middle classes, in no way. It's not the middle classes that benefit from this situation, it's not the middle classes. They're high and very high classes that are now free and they're paying. In rural taxes they still omit a reality here too. If they're going to be able to buy these summer houses, it seems very good to us that people who can buy a second residence, and a third. But that's not the basis of discounts that serve so that we have less resources to make social policies. We have nothing against it, but not against the money of the others. And that's what's happening now and that's what's going to happen. And yes, look, we made the list and updated the list of the underpopulated parishes. You know what happened? That at that time, when you made that announcement, we in the quarter of an hour had to be making a lecture of your intervention, and the resources of the opposition are sometimes not as immediate as those of the Government. Look, you speak, and also the representative of the People's Party for the State Government's disloyalty, who hasn't paid the total of the 700 million euros yet. Well, look, they had the chance last week to stand here in a different way to claim those amounts, which was with a structural reform, reforming the Government Act. It could be done, and in this way, we would have a much more reliable regulatory anchorage to, among other things, be able to make further judicial demands so that we can judicially protect that situation. Well, we didn't do that reform because you voted against it, because they said it was settled. And now it turns out that, a week later, they realize it's not solved. What's the matter is that you didn't want to fix it because you're more interested in being in Greece with the party that's in the government of the state unless it's yours, if it's not yours. Because, when it's yours, what they do is keep their mouth shut, which is what's good for them. And they're good at issues like some of the ones you've reported; for example, about the energy sector situation. What did you do when you were ruling while Mariano Rajoy was president of the Government in this same legislation? Have you led any delegations, or any other members of the Galician Union, to meet with that government to seek a new regulation of the electricity sector? No, no, no, no. What have you done here in this House? To vote against the proposals of En Marea, which we made when ruling the People's Party and when ruling the Socialist Party in the State, for a new regulation of the electricity sector that emerged from the daily pool, for example, the hydraulics and nuclear, and which, in this way and with other measures, reduced prices, not only for the electrointensive companies, but also for the abusive invoices that arrive every month at all homes in Galicia. What did they do? Nothing!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u30	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u31	I'm going to finish. By the way, with this theme I ask you again: what is the investment board for next year's conversion to Ferrolterra, to avoid that big stop factory that's going to be that forced industrial conversion? It's a lot of things and a little bit of time, because we've taxed it. He said in the first intervention that they were meeting with the employee's payroll agreements. If that is true and they want to comply with everything because the crisis has already happened and that is why they lower their wealth tax to the rich, they are derogating from Law 1/2012, temporary measures in certain public employment matters of the Autonomous Community.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u32	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u33	Temporary measures. What's the weather? If the time has passed for the rich, and that's the argument to lower their wealth tax, why don't they drop it for the rest of the office? As in the improvements to public workers. The first improvement is to end the interinternity, the temporality of public employment, and, therefore, that the struggles that today have various professional groups, particularly in the field of health, are recognized by the Union in the 2020 budgets, something that will not happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u34	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow me, Mr. Puy, with all courtesy, because you know I have a lot of respect for you, among other things, because you were my professor of Political Economy. I am very proud of my militancy in nationalism, among other things, because if something has defined us it is always to fight for democracy and for freedoms; the origin of nationalism is precisely in the anti-Francist struggle. Others, perhaps, shared that militancy and were heirs of that franchise. [[Applause]] And I don't know if his reference to tripartite has been very fortunate. I'm telling you, more than anything, seeing who's on the hook with and who's running the People's Party where he needs it. What gives wings to the far right, Counselor? [[Applause]] That they're whitening that extreme right that is ancient law enforcement, that is anti-Galiza, that wants to illegalize this Parliament, that wants to illegalize a democratic force like the BNG, which is against the Greek language. You deal with that force and they say it's others who give them wings. But if it's the People's Party who's bleaching the extreme right! [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, don't stand up! And also... well, I know it's time to eat, but don't eat me, that I'm just expressing myself freely. [[Murmurs.]] Let me talk, please. It would also be good if the People's Party had clarified itself. Today the councillor has made it clear that he comes not here to talk about budgets, but about the 700 million euros that the state owes us. They always had BNG support to claim these 700 million euros. What we didn't have was the support of the Galician People's Party to claim it all the way. That's the missing support. [[Applause]] You say you're willing to study it. The councilman says it can't be done, that it's the fault of the Block because it didn't do it in the municipalities, when they have absolutely nothing to do with the amount they owe the municipalities with the amount they owe the Galician Union. Of course, you're always irresponsible. At the time of truth, when we voted in this Parliament, what they did was to vote on it not to claim by the legal way of law the money that belongs to Galicia. There's the portrait of the People's Party! I don't know if it's a momentary bewilderment of election results or if it really is that they live in permanent contradiction. Give me more than this second question. Mr. Martínez said at the beginning of his speech that he was on the coast and that on the coast they have a saying that it is: "For fishing we have to graze." I didn't know him, I'm from the inside. We have another saying, which is, "To collect you have to sow." The grave thing is that during these ten years, the Galician Union has not sown employment, equality and well-being, but has sown just the opposite. [[Applause]] Your speech very well portrays how you focus on any debate. They have a maximum, the first is to oppose the opposition. Opposition of the Bipartite. Then they criticize that we compare the data with the 2009 data, but it's been nine years, repeatedly, by opposing the Bipartite, and recently also by opposing the municipalities. All of this you did in your intervention. He made more opposition than defending budgets, and above all explaining to the Greeks and to the Greeks how these budgets will solve the problems we have. And he went back to another modus operandi that explains a lot about what's going on in this country. Junta never looks at who's better, she always looks at who's worse. There's a place that has a worse data, there's a place where things go worse, so Galician Union is already satisfied. Instead of looking at the best, you're always looking at the worst, and so will Gallia Mr. Feijóo – sorry, Mr. Martínez –. But we also saw a portrait of the failure of the Union and its inability to provide solutions. We're talking here about specific problems that people in this country have. First, job problems, because we have a lot of jobs at risk from an industrial crisis; there were zero proposals, zero words, by the advisor. It's the best definition of what this government does: looking for someone to blame, but not looking for solutions to the problems that Galicia has. He finished his speech saying to us, "Galiza, every day more and more. And I ask him: more and better in what? The demo? In demography we are more and better when Galicia is losing population -- by the way, while it rises in the state -- when we have less youth, when we have a gross birth rate that has fallen by 24.7% during this period, or when the birth rate has fallen by 26.57%? You think Galicia is better. Galicia, more and better work? No, no, we have even fewer jobs than before the 2009 crisis. Go to the occupation data, because, in fact, today there is a smaller occupation than when you arrived at Galician Union. Is there a better job, Counselor? But if what's going on is that there's more and more precariousness! Precariousness in the private sector and precariousness in the public sector, which is what you have done all these years, jeopardise the public sector. And we have the consequences, for example, in health care, where many doctors and doctors, nurses and nurses left because of the precarious conditions that you were imposing on them. The consequences are there, that we have a precarious health. Can you tell the Greeks and the Greeks, really, that there is more and better housing in Galicia? That they have better access to the house? Can you really tell a young man or a girl who sees it as impossible to be emancipated? It's no longer buying a flat, it's that renters are putting themselves in the clouds, especially in the cities, and you don't do anything at all. And, of course, you can't come and tell us that we have more and better education when we see all the cuts that have taken place, especially for those people who needed it most, students and students who needed support staff and that you've been reducing it all these months, or closing schools in rural areas. This is what your government has done all this time. Yes, it is true that there are more and better tax discounts for the rich. That's the policy that you make, tax gifts to the rich, and while, you don't give to the Greeks and to the Greeks how many resources they're going to draw to improve education, to improve health, to improve dependency, to create jobs, to clean up our rivers. There are many problems that would require more resources than the Union has. And tell us so well that you'd like Euskadi's resources! So he defends an economic concert so that we can really have more resources in Galicia, all the resources that this country has! [[Applause]] They come here -- I have to tell them -- repeating the errors they criticize. It is true—it would only be missing!—that the situation is not that of the worst years of the crisis. We all know that because they are alerting international bodies, economists, anyone who knows something about economics or who has an interest in reading economy; with all the criticism we can make of what the great value of economists is, because I also think they have failed a lot over the years. In any case, I don't know if the German Government doesn't care about the latest data we know about how wealth and poverty evolve in Galicia. We gave some data here — I believe — all the opposition and they didn't say anything at all. We see, for example, the latest data published by the Galego Institute of Statistics on how families are coming at the end of the month, and what you are telling us is that in the last quarter there is an increase in ten points of people who say that they are having difficulties at the end of the month, and this is an indicator of social problems that are beginning to be detected. If we add up the homes that come with difficulties and with many difficulties, we see that they are 42.37% of the total and that they have increased by 8% in three months. But this doesn't bother you because the happy Arcadia account is much more functional than meeting reality and addressing problems. He told us about convergence. Of course, here we should first mention that part of Galicia's convergence takes place through the enlargement of the European Union, because when the countries of the East were introduced, the per capita income was greatly lowered. But if we analyze what happened during these years of the crisis, what the last indicator tells us is that per capita income is at levels of 2004, which made us back fifteen years during these years of crisis. And a very important part of that convergence, which is measured in GDP per person, has more to do with the demographic crisis than we are here to say that there is no problem in this country. He's again denying emigration, as if it wasn't an important question for Galicia. And I'm also asking you, if there's no immigration problem, why did Junta put the plan back in motion?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u36	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u37	We should explain. And above all, explain to you if it seems to you that a population as old as Galicia is not a serious problem, and that we are in a demographic regression; and if it's not a serious problem that over the last ten years they've had to leave nearly three hundred thousand people, half under thirty-five years. If those people hadn't gone, Galicia today wouldn't lose population, we would be adding. This is the portrait of how you view this is a question of statistics, figures of sum and subtraction, and that you don't want to analyze what the reality of the country is. We still believe that these budgets are a missed opportunity. They are not going to bring solutions to the serious problems that the country has, and we are afraid that they will not approve the refunds, but that they will not accept any of the proposals that we bring to this plenary, which will be discussed in the afternoon, to solve the industrial crisis, to have more money for innovation, to improve health, ultimately, to improve the quality of life of people. Because of course, they have a lot to approve of, but that doesn't mean Galicia's going in the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Joint Left Group, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u39	I'll be brief. It's not time. This debate produced three sensations: a joy, a confusion, and a huge concern. The joy is to see what bothers the People's Party that there is a progressive government agreement in the Spanish state. Seeing how the PP gets us to have this deal gives me great joy. [[Applause]] Mr. Tellado is not here, but this is the moment I was waiting for you to say: Mr. Tellado, yes, we could, in that sense I start to have until, I don't know, a certain pity to see the People's Party, especially the People's Party of Galicia, desperate to attempt to break that agreement; desperate to ask the economic power that influences the Socialist Party for no agreement. [[Murmurs.]] To see the People's Party of Galicia, to see Feijóo, wanting to make Government with Pedro Sánchez, of course, is a feeling that produces a certain joy. The second has to do with confusion. It's a sort of Stockholm syndrome that the People's Party, the Government, when you come to this House, because it's logical that in a debate there are different positions and that each one chooses the variables that suit you most in the defense of their positions. The problem is when you don't recognize reality, when you get into this syndrome of believing your own lies and your own false arguments you give. Because when you don't know reality, you can't transform it. In that sense, I am going out with confusion in this debate. It seems that I have a strange obsession with deflating amounts; I think I will be called the deflator. In other words, a serious debate cannot be held if the price effect is not removed when comparing amounts. It's not my whim, it's not an obsession, it's not crazy, it's that, if you don't compare homogeneous quantities, it's not possible to compare. Undisturbed, when the concepts are confused, because I said the budget says that the contribution of the external sector is going to be negative. I don't say, say the budget. Here it was said that exports grew. But what does one have to do with the other? The external sector is not exports, it's the balance between exports and imports. And the external sector has negative behavior in the year 2019 and is planned by the Business Council that has negative behavior in the year 2020. When concepts are not understood or properly used, it's hard to know what we're talking about. It's hard to know what we're talking about. I'm going to make a plea in this chamber to the People's Party. I change the writer of arguments when they talk about employment. This is the fifth time they come to this camera and assume that three out of four people with a contract have an indefinite one. Do you realize what they're saying? They're saying that one in four, 25% of the waged population in Greece is precarious, and that's the highest rate in the whole European Union. Please don't assume again that 25% of this country's employees have a temporary contract, don't! Counselor, I didn't want to refer to you because I think it's a matter of government. Actually, you said that when you compare the second trimester of the year 2009 to the second trimester of the year 2019, 54,000 jobs are missing. Let me explain. You're going to leave the government less busy than when they arrived. Now there are 54,000 less. If it's true they increase by 9,000, 45,000 will be missing. You look at the balance that you're going to make: ten years ruling a country, and leaving it with less work than when they arrived. I'm going to give you another concept for your labor writer. One thing is temporality and another is precariousness. In Galicia, 27% -- not 25% -- of people have a temporary contract, 27%, but there's 15% working on unwanted part-time, bias, which is also precarious. Besides, there are the discontinuous fixtures and, besides, there are those who work in practice. When you take and sum up, and when you get into membership of Social Security and you see the general regime -- you've given them the data -- only 47% of the people affiliated to the general social security regime, where the employees are, only 47%!, you have an indefinite full-time contract, the others, 53%, more than one in both, temporary, made discontinuance, unwanted partial time, practice contract, no contract and so on. That explains that in our country — and any government should be ashamed of — there are 450,000 employees who enter less than 9,000 euros a year. The year of comparison theme. The year 2009 is the year you started to rule, so we use that reference, and that makes it EUR 1,958 million less in budget. But if we take the year 2008, it's 1.5 billion euros and if we take the year 2007, it's 1.2 billion euros. What explains the evolution of the 2009 figures is not a problem of misestimating the central government at that time, but the big global recession, which led to Germany, for example, having a GDP fall of 4.3 per cent. Now I'm going to say the huge concern I'm getting out of here, from this debate, and it's the government's fiscal policy, which the People's Party calls to do in this House. The counsellor came to say that, with his measure on the tax of successions and prayers, the tax practically disappears. And I want to report that that's exactly what the People's Party is looking for. He did it in Madrid, it's the combined strategy of the People's Party in the state as a whole. And I'm going to say my extraordinary concern: they're putting themselves in the tax positions of the far right, reactionary tax positions, tax positions that want to reduce taxes on figures that precisely record wealth and heritage to be placed next to the partners who can deal with that taxation. That gives me a great deal of concern. And I end with the last idea, which is why we argue that we can make an expansive budget and that there is margin in the estimate of income. I bring the number here. Counselor, you don't have the responsibility because it was the central government, but the estimate of the income that the central government has made all these years fails more than a fair shotgun. In 2015, the error was 428 million euros; in 2016, 355; in 2017, 140; in 2018, 428 million euros. This year's responsibility to define the income estimate, as there's no state limit, you have it; you said so, you've done here the income estimate. The average of all these years, about four years, is 338 million euros. And we say that these mistakes are not due to bad professionals, that are unforced mistakes, that they don't need a greater preventive capacity. These errors have a function, which is to cut the budget, to make the budget with a lower income forecast. We say that the year 2020 — as you have said — is a year of enormous uncertainty; the year 2020 is a year where there are clear risks of slowing down, we need an expanding budget. It is possible to make a strict estimate of income that will enable us to implement that policy, and we encourage it to do so. I'm done. This country needs a different budget, a different budgetary policy, a different fiscal policy, and as you refuse to do so, this country will have no choice but to choose another government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u40	Thank you. Ten minutes exactly. Ten minutes exactly. It was going to be brief. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga. This is where you conquer everyone up here. I know what that is. There's a climb when you get down there. [[Laughter]] Yes, yes, no, of course, I know.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u41	Good day again. Thank you, Mr. Pedro Puy, for your words. I'm sure we'll ever match in the future, somewhere, so nothing happens. We'll agree. There are many possibilities that can be crossed. To make good use of the ten minutes. I'm left with a version of the advisor's intervention that had his comical moments as well. I mean, everything that happens between 2009 and 2014 is responsibility: A, of Mr. Zapatero; B, of Mr. Touriño, which is the fall of everything. What happens from the year 2014 is all Mr. Feijóo's responsibility. That's the summary of your intervention. Of course, that's cheating. That's cheating on the lonesome. Well, there's something about this. I think -- I said before -- there are no lights everywhere, not even in Vigo, no shadows everywhere. There are lights and shadows in Spanish reality, there are lights and shadows in Greek reality, and what it's about is recognition and, indeed, each from a different perspective, trying to find solutions. When we have so much light about the reality of Galicia and so much shadow about the rest, it clears everything and, in the end, we are unable to see anything. I posed as a central matter the capture of investment, of external investments, that the savings generated in Galicia stay here and do not export. The question would be: do you consider that we have captured in Galicia the level of investment that corresponds to our population, our economic dimension and so forth? We're arguing about the occupation, I won't keep insisting on it. It seems to me that the reference should be what's going on in Spain, and we're going under female occupation and male occupation, we're taking what we've got in 2009, 2014, it's the same. Do you think that we are acting in the creation of jobs at the level that the Galician economy needs, which the Galician society needs? Because that's the key. We discussed the issue of income per inhabitant. It's pretty clear, we've moved forward two points and peak, almost three points, in the last ten years. Phenomenal, who's going to be against that? We are in favour and we want to continue to do so in the future. But what I'm saying is that all this progress is because in demographic terms we grow less than in Spain, and it turns out that you and we say there's economic growth, but we have to fight demographic regression. Fighting demographic regression means having a population that grows more. If that happens, we're not going to have convergence in the future unless we change other things. What do we have to change? Just be able to invest more. To be able to generate more, to expand the economy, a little more than the Spanish average. We can't aspire to go much further, but a little more yes, to go progressively cutting the difference and making us able, at the same time, to converge into income per inhabitant and converge also in terms of occupation and employment. This is what it's all about. This is what it's all about. Of course the wages go up! Because if we converge on income per inhabitant and adjust to employment, that means that we behave well in the productivity of work, and that, in the end, ends up moving more or less immediately to wages. That's fine, that's positive, yes, but the other one isn't. So we have lights and we have shadows. Industrial policy. I think you shouldn't be happy about your budget because it's not consistent with the speech you make. If there is, as there is, in some sectors a serious problem that has to be tackled from all over the administrations, I would like to see how this has affected the board budget for this year. What changes have been made in last year to this one to say that effective measures are being taken in the budget of the Union to counter, combat, compensate, to help take up the necessary change, for example, in the region of Eume-Ortegal in relation to the formation of the metal-mechanical sector, which affects the entire naval sector of Vigo, which is one of the keys to the matter. Well, well-trained staff is missing, too, in Ferrol, because we make an effort in that direction, an industrial transition plan that takes into account the changes that are taking place in Galicia. Where's that in the budget? Well, that would be important if he explained it to us. And something similar in R+D+i. I mean, it's not just a volume problem. If what they're doing these years is they're budgeting a hundred, and when they arrive in November, as you see, they're not going to execute it, they're doing a credit reduction of about 20%, and eventually they're presenting a few running accounts on the budget that's better, but it turns out they're not spending those amounts. That's going on year after year and it's a problem, a very clear execution problem. And that's what they say: well, now let's budget more. I don't care if they assume more, I'm worried if they execute it. And for that, important organizational changes are needed. I say, let's see what works. Which works, for example, in the Basque Country? Ikerbasque. In Catalonia? The ICREA. Do you know what was the Generalitat's contribution to the ICREA last year, the last year of what there is reference? It was 12 million euros, 12 million euros. Don't you have the Galician board 12 million euros for this? That is basically what the downturn in wealth tax for this year 2020 means. With these 12 million we could launch a research institute like the ICREA in Galicia. Well, it's not bad, that's the cost of the estate tax. And there I go to the tax issue. I know that in the matter of taxation there are many possible models and many balances, it will depend on circumstances and fashion. The dominant discourse is that very high marginal types make growth difficult because they make saving and such things difficult. You know as I do that the longest growing period in the West was from the end of World War II to the first oil crisis. And he also knows that, in that case, the marginal IRPF guys came to be in the United States at 70%. Yes, yes, 70% in that period. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't propose, at least, to get there. No, no, it's not about getting there, it's about saying, well, let's be a little sensible. Let's go to the bottom. In property tax, drop of types. It affects seven thousand people in Galicia. Of course, you say, those in need of social policies are 530,000, the wealth tax, 7,000. Np000 inheritance tax and donations, by the way, we can say that this rise from 400. to 1,000,000 affects 1% of the liquidations. At 1%, huh?Oh, my God! That's what we're talking about, that's the target population we want to benefit from. And I say, for that population, great, great! Who doesn't like to be taxed? Me too. I would agree with zero taxes if we kept the level of public services we have. But that's in Alaska, which has the exploitation of hydrocarbons and which allows them to have no income tax. Here, unfortunately, we don't have to make a certain balance between the level of taxation and the level of public services we want to have here. So, I ask, what is the objective of these tax measures? Growth. In recent years, Galicia has achieved no greater growth than the Spanish average with this fiscal policy. If it's not growth, is it equity? They're talking about equity? I'd have to make him look at the academy, because just in the academy what they're saying is that acting on heritage, on heritage taxes, is what allows the medium and long term to restore some additional equity about which the market generates, and then, if it's not one thing or another, what is it? That's what I had to explain to us. Don't tell me Andalusia doesn't know what. For example, you know perfectly well that the Galician IRPF has the lowest marginal types from 60,000 euros. Let's agree, let's get up a little bit there, create some additional stretch like many other autonomous communities have done, it may be a measure, and keep the other guys, but let's act on this, Counsellor. It would be a way of acting — I believe — more responsible, which would favour equity, and I am sure that it would not affect growth at all. I don't have much more time, just tell you, to finish up, that I was a little upset by the comparison you made with the deputies, including that of Ourense. Not for nothing do we have to stop criticizing what other administrations do, even the municipalities, but because we compare the Junta of Galicia with all that is, with the provincial deputies, I think it demeans this self-government. Among other reasons, you know well that this is a very public service-centred administration, which hires staff, instead, Members are another very different thing, they have a very different cost profile, so it's a comparison that's not deserved. As far as Vigo is concerned, it seems... No, no, you mentioned Vigo. Yeah, yeah, I got it down here. You quoted Vigo and talked about the lights and I don't know what. I mean, of course, Vigo's problem is that Junta wants to compete with Vigo's lights with Bethlehem, because that's pretty indicative of what's going to happen. [[Laughter]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u42	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Close the debate, Consecutor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u43	Thank you again, Mr. President. Forty years, forty years we've known each other, Mr. Lago. Forty years ago we met, Mr. Fernández Leicega. I really wish you all better in your new responsibility, on behalf of your party, but above all by the Autonomous Community of Galicia. Go forward that this is already the full of farewells, for also that all that is spoken we are able to propose. Don't be wrong, don't be wrong, Mr. Fernández Leicega, that some things are the lights and others the beauts. But don't be mistaken, what was born in Bethlehem, as the joke said, finally ended up in St. Peter's Basilica. Be very careful! Be very careful, it's a question of size. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Villares, on the subject of tax fraud, I can't agree with you anymore. We've always fought tax fraud. It's many years we've even done special programs for the fight against tax fraud. But let us not be mistaken, the tax fraud, given the tax powers of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, which we must never demean. — I did not do so on the question of size, as mentioned here, but all fraud must be fought. But don't be mistaken, when you make tax fraud, you're talking about jurisdictions about the IRPF, we don't have them. You're talking about competences about VlV, we don't have them. He's talking about the rest of the special taxes, we don't have them. You're talking about corporate tax...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u44	You have to raise your microphones, you don't listen well. You don't listen well, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u45	...we don't have it. So everyone in their fair magnitude. I will also refer for a moment to the subject of staff members, which has made me worried, and also to the reference made by the BNG spokesperson of precariousness in the public sector. A purely methodological question, Mr. Lago. Two, to be more accurate. I'm very concerned when you take into account the situation of the slowdown we are in, but we're growing up, I hope a little bit more, that everything would move to employment, which is what really matters to us as society — I believe — not only, but most importantly. When we estimate for the coming year — what we know today — that the domestic demand will come up by 2% and that, indeed, external demand will remain by one tenth, you will understand that. But we have to analyze a little more decomposition. When we talk about imports, which grow more than exports, they're the two combinations that give the result, what's going to grow in imports? Intermediate goods. What do intermediate goods advance? This is a class of the first days of macro, eh! What's going on with the intermediate goods? These are important business decisions that will have a final destination of intermediate goods that do not occur in Galicia. So not every import is bad for you, it's not so, if they advance -- as it seems -- important business decisions. The evidence is that this year 2019 is very good at gross capital formation, but only two, gross capital formation of purely civil origin but that of the Galician Union. If we wait for the Central Government, or for the local governments, which were the other thing, it doesn't work that way. So let's do it. Another question we shouldn't play with numbers. When we talk about an expansive budget and say there's a tenth left under the estimate, no! I also told you, both in committee and here, as in other subjects, that the actual spending capacity of the Galician Union is almost 3.5%, is it greater or is it not greater than the nominal increase of 3.1%? I repeat, there are credits — and several times they have been mentioned here — that have to do with the infrastructures, which last year were to pay in [...] for a long time, and today they are fully activated as a result of this autonomous community entering, for the first time in sixteen years, in surplus. Having said this, there are other issues where I can't keep quiet. There's a theme that as a society we have, which is the subject of demography. There is another issue that is unfortunately very current, which is the whole industrial crisis. In both there's the government's stance and the opposition's stance. It turns out that demography is a unique and exclusive question of the Union. No, why don't we look at self-governing community theses, that we all have something to do? Why so much breast-feeding and, when demography goes wrong, it turns out it's the fault of the Galician Union, and when it's okay, like... why do I say this? This theme, like others, has to do with, for example, the seven great cities, the second time I mean. It turns out that for the rest we are champions of the world, and when it's about the demographic theme, no Greek city — let's do that — is growing demographically. Then something's happening. Why don't we join the powers, especially first of all, one step ahead of the autonomous community? And he's been doing it for ten years. So talking about demography was almost anathema in this Parliament. Deputies, the great municipalities. Why? Because as an autonomous community, that's where we have the serious problem. Something's wrong with the whole industrial crisis. How can you come to this Parliament saying that the powers of the Autonomous Community...? They should be aware, first of all, of what's going on, both in Ferrolterra and in the Bridges and Vigo... yes, it tells us, what happens is that there's state competition, autonomic competition, competition, in your case, local competition, and we have to activate ourselves among all, but the first thing you have to find out your letters, because it's the first derivative, it's the central government, the rest of us are deceiving people. We'll still be the first to face everyone who has to face the moment, they won't escape. Reindustrialization, therefore. We have to take into account, sometimes, certain messages that we are launching, which, for example, has to do with the whole tax issue, and that is how we manage to compare it with social policies. Let me tell them weaving because this government is able to lower taxes for the vast majority, not for the rich, for the vast majority of citizens, and at the same time, as we have seen for ten years, particularly in the last five, in social policy. For example, what we do this year. What is the advice that, in relative terms, in the second largest place? Social policy, 5.2%. They look at themselves as being able to do, in a balanced way, what fiscal policy and social policy are, in a more direct way, by the subject of aid. There is another question that has not been discussed but that if I would like to make it very clear, very clear!, which is when with the extreme localism we have at this time in Galicia — it has been a little more polite and just called imperious — there is a perfectly coordinated attack of the seven greats, where this budget seems not to meet someone's expectations. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it starts on one side, it goes on the other, nobody has anything. This was like in the crisis of the seventies -- those of us who have a certain age -- in which there was always an external factor, so it should be on the moon the factor that caused any crisis. Here too, because when you add, nowhere are the investments of the Board. I say imperiousness and remain imperious, I go no further, because when I look at the sum of chapters VI or VII... the falsehoods that must be heard! Because of course, territorialize by cities what the investments of the councils of the Middle Rural and the Sea, which amount to 360 million euros, or 127, must have a pain! If we do so, it turns out that, of the 1,691 in credit, in real spending capacity more, Mr. Lago, 1.203. It turns out there's something else that, again, I don't know if it's imperious or if we're dedicated to deceiving people, because everything's worth, everything's worth the moment, which is chapter VII. Chapter VII of education, for example, that you know like us, that goes, above all, to universities. The universities, as far as I know, have seven campuses and are where they are, they can't be all over the territory, they can't be... why do we play with the figures? In the most competitive part, in the whole aid system that is chapter VII, why are we going to predetermine the result of a competition? Wouldn't it be better to make calls, that there's competition, and then the investments will come? Where are the questions and the occurrences? Above all, as important — as you know — in the civil sphere of innovation mentioned here. Why don't we let things flow normally? And another is the approach -- that's already a very technical expertise -- the theme of what is consolidation of entities that consolidate and not, because there are still entities that don't enter the consolidation perimeter, say, for example, what is Galician Waters or [...]. Another of the falsehoods is public employment. Turns out it's been said here that they're less, lying! Any benchmarks of the Autonomous Community in terms of cash, with regard to the year 2009, tell us that we are positive, particularly on the subject of health. Say what they say, that's the truth. When this budget increases by 3.6% and the pay guarantee there is by 2% more than 0.2% more, it means two things: that we are assuming the very important agreements that we have reached within the social agreement with UXT and with Commissions, and, on the other hand, because if we are increasing the markets, the forces that provide their services. Why don't we put those questions in a positive light? [[Applause]] And when you talk about clippings, let me tell you another mantra that's out there today, which is the topic of clippings. The general public employment adjustments, which depend on this Community, are all cancelled. There's one who doesn't, Government Zapatero, famous this last day, 5% for all public employees for life, in medium terms. Are we responsible for this? Can we find ourselves — the bipartisan, in this case, of the BNG — with a consortium of social services where each person, for work, paid 32% less than his counterpart at the level of work of the Board, and this government is already going for the fourth year of the fifth, where is that state differential? Let us preach with examples. [[Applause]] It's not fair what you're saying. Nor is it fair when it comes to criticism of precariousness and it turns out that this autonomous community, if not the first, is the second least precarious community. Because we all know what happened to the replacement rates, where it is so important for us to comply with that 108% that lets us end this; where at this time we have committed 15,000 squares offered this 2019 to solve much of the problem — not everything — and leave it at 6% precarious rates, and it turns out that we have 15,188 gathered at the present time and yet we have to listen to what we have to hear. They're about 5,650 of the general civil service, 5,050 of education and four thousand four hundred and something already called into Sergas. And it turns out that in Sergas later we talked about 5,000 squares. Home!, if we have 4,400 calls, you will understand that the interim rate will be reduced considerably; as it should be, and so we must all go that way. [[Applause]] But most importantly, I tell you, I thank you very much... and you're sorry if I happen to happen in my... sometimes, too...... I was telling Mrs. Pontón that I talked little about the budgets. It's just that sometimes you're so attentive to other things — for my part, I don't mean for you — that I'm mistaken for many. But let me tell you two alone: there's nothing better than planning, even to be wrong, if we realize, and straighten the course. We have two strategic plans. What we are interested in is the new strategic plan, not to be mistaken, but to know where the fundamental guidelines go of what as society we deserve for the next decade, starting with the reference -- not just what it means, which also means -- in the services sector, in the 21st century. But there is a young Galician girl who has already begun in a very clear way at this time with the improvement of employability: for example, with the dual employment program; for example, with the New People's Card; for example, with the teaching reinforcements; for example, with regard to leisure and conciliation. All this -- it's going now -- moves forward what will be in future years to Galicia's family. It turns out that we are from the few communities — not the only one, that I know — in which, having already a good level of departure, which is not optimal, in what are the children's schools, we will have the second child for free, starting next year — send your nose what you need to hear! — from all over Spain. [[Murmurs.]] The Welcome Card turns out we have it, which is the best and has no other community. [[Murmurs.]] And the best attention to our biggest, with budgets that grow to 362 million euros. Please, let's have things a little quieter. [[Applause]] In innovation... I know you don't like the important initiatives that we have in Galicia, as can be Galician aerospace pole — I do — the Galician digital strategy for 2030 — I do — the home domotic — I do — or the digital transformation — I do. [[Murmurs.]] And so for many more things, as it must be. [[Applause]] And it's over -- it's time; I suppose we'll all be a bit hungry, too -- with something: 700 million euros due to this autonomous community. We only have 60 at this point, 640, we won't forget it. [[Murmurs.]] All kinds of measures work, but there's a very clear one. And, Mrs. Pontón, it's not a size problem, like other things, but quality. It's the same thing that owes 40 million euros to local corporations that 640 because, in essence, we must never forget that they are not ours, that they are our citizens to provide more and better services, in a society that is increasingly progressing, but, like any human act, everything is perceptible. For our part it won't be. That growth comes out and we want to prolong it with the help of everyone, I really tell you; let's continue on that path, which I believe - and honestly tell you - that we are going quite well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u46	Thank you, Counselor. [[Applause]] Vote for Group I amendments Voting of amendments to the total demand for the overall refund of budgets or the refund of budget items of sections and expenditure managers
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u47	After this debate has been concluded, we shall vote in this case on Amendments to Group I. We shall jointly vote on amendments to the whole of Group I formulated by parliamentary groups, both those which demand the overall return of budgets and the return of any section or centre of expenditure manager. Can we all vote together? All together. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We then vote on amendments from all groups in one vote. We vote. Joint vote on all amendments to the whole of Group I, which demand the global return of budgets or the return of budget sections and expenditure managers. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, these amendments are rejected to the whole of Group I.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u48	The plenary will be resumed at 6:15. All body mass index needs to be improved. [[Laughter]] Sixteen o'clock. [[The session is suspended at 3:30 p.m. and resumed at 4:09 p.m.]] Debates and votes on amendments amending the overall budget content or transferring appropriations between sections
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u49	We resume the session with the debate and vote on amendments that modify the overall budget content or transfer appropriations between sections. In this case, it is the amendments of Group II. Amendments have been tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, the Left Joint Parliamentary Group and the Galician Socialist Group. We started with those of the Joint Parliamentary Group. Mr. Casal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u50	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. Good afternoon to all Members and Members. Last Friday, against wind and tide - and never better said -, In Marea organized an act in Coruña to talk about budgets, and everyone said, "But you're pirated, organize an act on budgets... that doesn't interest anyone. Well, in the end, he was interested; he was interested in the parents of children with attention deficit syndrome, with other kinds of special needs, people of education, health, people of movement against the problems of road insecurity, etc. After speaking deeply -- because, of course, often it seems that budgets are only for understanding -- there people had made it clear that budgets define, black on white, which is politics, the ideology behind them. In the end, the conclusion, after trying to get all that maraña, that all those trees let see the forest, is that everyone said: but how is it possible that the People's Party in an electoral year present these budgets? What can be done? For the only thing you can do is change the government, and these are going to be the budgets that will further bring about a change of government in Galicia. As our spokesman of En Marea said this morning, the fog of Monte Pio prevents the President of the Union from seeing the real situation in which Galicia is located. Indeed, it seems to be isolated from the social and economic reality around it. Perhaps, if Friday the councillor or the president had been there talking to people on foot, he would realize that stories -- as noted this morning -- people often believe them, and that this is not a happy Arcadia where money seems to be dropped, and that's why the accounts announce new tax reductions so that the rich are even richer, as if we could give up the income of the most wealthy, as if there were already full employment between youth, equality between women and men, environmental neutrality of our economy, cultural normality, total social cohesion; ultimately, as if there were no problems to deal with and we could afford to give them tax gifts to the rich. The truth is that the fogs, these fogs that flood this budget, do not let them see real Galicia, the Galicia of the 612,085 people at risk of poverty or exclusion, the 34,700 homes without income, the 670,000 Welsh people who earn income under the 9,000 gross euros, the nearly 700,000 people who reach a maximum of 750 euros gross per month in 14 payments, the some 1.2 million people who make up the universe of precariousness; a situation that, in most cases, places them in the milleurism and, worst, under the threshold of poverty or social exclusion. A dictatorship of social precariousness which the fogs of Monte Pio do not allow to see, like the industrial crisis, structural inequality between women and men, the decline of rural areas, the lack of expectations for the future, the rates of pollution, the rise of temperatures or the degradation of natural habitat. As our spokesman has already said, we are facing an emergency that is both industrial, environmental, social and feminist. I'm not going to extend on this line, because I don't have time; I only have 15 minutes to talk about the whole budget in detail, as far as possible, of the Council of Galicia; so I'm not going to extend on this subject, which has already been dealt with enough. In the face of these emergencies, the Union has not only done nothing, but is responsible, through its policies, through an economic management which I think is self-destructive, which clearly leads this government to its disappearance and encourages and deepens in these emergencies, children all of them of the peculiar political and economic practice that acquired neoliberalism in Galicia. And so the squilming economic management of the territory and which disregards the interests of citizenship practised by this government ultimately results in demographic implosion, which is ultimately the greatest consequence of everything we are talking about. But there's an alternative, there's a feminist Galician, greenish and fair who asks for a step. There's an alternative, and next year we'll see it in its fair measure. That's why the Parliamentary Group of En Marea makes an amendment to the whole that affects both income and expenditure content and transfers between credits from different sections and advisors. First we think there's a need to increase the expenditure, and that doesn't have to be the most debt, you have to get out of a fair taxation and a better income organization in the Galician Union. We believe that there are a whole range of measures that could increase income by 226 million euros, fulfilling all laws, both budgetary discipline and the organic law of budgetary stability, if the Council of Galicia so wanted. It is a joint proposal through five axes: the increase in resources from the State, the International Compensation Fund, which we described in the amendment and we believe that it could reach an amount of around EUR 10 million; a series of tax reforms based, on one hand, on the repeal of many of the tax reductions made by the Galician Union - specifically, it has already been talked about in the taxation of assets and successions - and, on the other hand, in the implementation of new tax figures and the increase in the taxation of existing figures. Because Galicia is actually one of the autonomous communities of one of the least progressive tax systems, it is one of the least progressive in the whole state. In fact, taxes are lowered, but those who don't need to be lowered. The other day I told you in committee, you're going to put people who have the most money in Galicia into conflict. Instead of buying a BMW X5, they're going to have to consider buying a BMW X6, with the gifts they're making them, which they really don't need. All these tax discharges always benefit from the same. Over the past few years, we have been watching the continuing tax cuts that affect the highest incomes, whose results are reduced to a drop in the income of the Union, without achieving, in addition, any of the targets for which the said discounts are announced. Because the lowerings to the rich are not transferred like a fine rain to the rest of the population, like a neoliberal mantra, that reality is that later it does not reach that, but to a accumulation of wealth, as seen in all indications. The specific tax measures we propose are: an increase in the tax rates in the tranches of more than EUR 150,000, although Mr. Casado and the retired President of Citizens, in incomes greater than EUR 150,000, considered them to be medium class, as if it were the middle class! -; the maintenance of the property tax, derogating from the changes implemented in previous budgets and in this one we are talking about today; the derogation of the proposed new reduction in the tax on successions and concessions; the tax on deposits in credit institutions; the increase in the type of taxes on environmental damage caused by certain uses, such as that of the water encouraged, for at least those electrical companies, with those thousands of fallen profits from the sky, with fully amortised centralities, distributed some of these benefits for social interest; a change of the wind canon with the objective of taxation based on power. It can't be that we keep a wind canon based on paying for each support. The windmills installed when this cannon was determined had about 250 or 500 kilowatts, and now there are 3 megawatts, 12 times more. They can't be paid the same thing. And above all, if it's three or so mills, they don't pay anything, when with three or so mills they have the same installed power as maybe a park of 40 or 50 with the power there was when this tax was determined. An autonomous tax also on large commercial surfaces, which are deteriorating the entire commercial fabric in Galicia. The implementation of an autonomous tax on sugared beverages, which is already known to be constitutional. Also the implementation of an autonomous tax on empty or tourist apartments for large owners, who are changing the dynamics of the tourist sector without leaving anything for citizenship, with all the problems it entails. All these measures, as explained in our amendment, would amount to EUR 126 million. We also proposed a detailed review of all tax benefits: €2,827 million from 2014 to now. Indeed, as the counselor said, there are many who are very fair, but there are others who are not so fair, they should be thoroughly checked. We consider, especially in the case of successions and prayers, that they accumulate tax benefits of more than 700 million euros, which could be revised, and we consider - and I say we are cautious - that they could provide about 35 million euros more to the investment and expenditure capacity of the Galician Union. In the fight against fraud, we think we could do something more, and we're also prudent. If we had achieved the goal of only reaching the average volume of submerged economy in the rest of the state, we could have reached around 15 million euros. And finally, reduce debt. It doesn't have to be at this level right now. The councillor proposes to lower the net indebtedness by 27%, and we think that you can go a little slower. It's okay, now the debt costs are much lower, we could go down about 10% or 11%, and that would have another 40 million more available. In total, as I said, 226 million euros. In addition, in the amendment we have proposed a whole series of game application and reduction changes, even removing some, because they never run, appear in budgets over and over and over and never run. Much has already been said this morning about the execution rates in some councils that are truly terrible. We've moved these games into a total of over 263 million euros. In total, 489 million euros, which seems to us a very reasonable figure; it could actually be said that it's very little ambitious, 5% of the budget, but it would give for a lot of things. How do we distribute these 489 million? We share them between 236 concrete proposals. Of course, then it won't give time either, nor will it give me time to talk about them, nor will the counselor answer, but it would be good if the Galician Union had spent some time saying why you can't spend on these things. We have grouped them into 24 major groups: a clash plan against machilist violence, with 35 million euros, where we propose a lot of measures, specifically 11, to develop, to provide budgeting to the councils to be able to fight against machilist violence: a clash plan against machist violence; the possibility of economic independence of women victims of this machiista violence and many other things; increases in equality policies in more than 5 million euros; an emergency plan for employment and the elimination of precariousness, with more than 45 million euros; a programme of employment for older people; a special programme for women's employment and wage equal pay and many other things; an emergency employment plan for young people, much more gifted than today has the Unity of Galicia; an emergency plan for employment and the elimination of precariousness, with more than 45 million euros; a much more gifted employment programme for older people, if it was then implemented; a special programme for women's employment policies; a plan of improvement and guarantee of universal public health; a plan nearly 500 for them, and for them how many people, and we can make it as possible and what possible to make it as possible, and how we can make it as possible, how we can as possible, and how we can make as possible, and how we can as possible, and how we can as possible and how we can as possible and what possible and how we can make them as possible and how we can make as possible and how we can as possible and what possible and what possible and what possible and what possible and what possible and what possible and what possible and what possible and what possible and what possible and what possible and what possible and how we can as possible and what possible and what possible and what possible and what possible and how and how and how and how and how and how and how and how and how and how and how and how and how and how and how and how and how and how and how and how and how and how and how and how and how and how and how and how and how and how and how and how and how and how and how and how and how and how and how and how and how and how we can make how we can make how we can make how we can make European European European European European European European European European European European European European European European European European European European and how and how we can make European and how and how and how and and how and how and how and how and how we can make And above all, if we have that money, why don't we buy -- Galician Union, Galician government -- Povisa hospital? In addition, there are 15 other measures that are on the list and which can be found in the document: a plan to fight poverty and social exclusion, with 114 million euros; more public resources for residences and day centres; a plan for transition to true Greek social income; the deployment of the Greek network of early attention; a real start to the exemption of teaching from 0 to 3 years, and not for those with more than one child — who are few —, but for those with the first child; a more intensive fight against energy poverty, which strikes more than 600,000 people in Galicia; a plan for the improvement and recovery of public education, endowed with more than 30 million euros. In the new production model we managed to bring together around 38 million euros for 27 measures, including 12 aimed directly at addressing the effects of energy transition on Pontes and Meirama districts. You talk a lot about solving the lives of the workers, the people who are going to be affected by the energy transition in the Bridges and Meirama, and there is no concrete measure in the budgets. That's where politics really is. Also a Plan for the Recovery of the Rural and Combating of Fires and Population Recovery of more than 46 million euros; an Environmental Protection and Defence Plan and a new 8 million-dollar waste management model; a Plan for the Guarantee of the Right to Purchase and Access to Dignified Housing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u51	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u52	...—end already— with more than 13 million; improvements to mobility and infrastructure, with EUR 17 million; impulse to proximity trade — which is the future of trade — and a low carbon economy, with more than 5 million.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u53	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u54	Improving R+D+i spending by over 10 million and reducing it to the real economy of Galicia. The councilman was talking about the aerospace pole...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u55	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u56	I'd like to be there one day at the door of Rozas and see how many people actually come to work.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Casal. You have another shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u58	Well, we have another 14 measures plus...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u59	Come on! Thank you very much. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u60	No, we could go together...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u61	Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u62	...to the commission, to be there at the door...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u63	Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u64	...and see how many people actually come in...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u65	It's over!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u66	...of these thousands of jobs...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Casal. You have another shift later. [[Mr. Casal Vidal pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Casal, you have another shift later. [[Applause]] Come on, thank you very much! For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u68	Good afternoon to all and to all. Mr. Martínez, we amend these budgets, which are the quarters of the legislation and the tenths of this decade of the Government of Mr. Núñez Feijóo, because it is obvious that they have already had an obvious result and that we do not share. You left us in this decade's balance a more unequal Galician social and productive sectors directly in extinction, Mr. Martínez. You have become our country, instead of a country of opportunity, a country of lost opportunities, and today we have less resistance to an economic crisis that already has some indicators that you yourself are not able to question in this House. Today we have fewer people living, poorer and less job opportunities. And no matter how many cellophane they put to these budgets, that's the reality. In this context, since BNG we understand that there is only one change of direction. In this change of course — we also want to mention briefly — we insist that there would be a need for two other issues that we do not give up, in case at some point they were in doubt as to what they were saying this morning. First, we do not give up questioning this system of absolutely outdated and obsolete financing which is part of the responsibility that we are in these circumstances. And secondly, we do not refuse to continue questioning - and believe me, Mr Martínez, that we are going to do so, whoever is in the Government of Madrid - that framework of taxation of the deficit that what it does is to numb communities like Galicia when the state decides to devote its resources. We insist, to violate our economic sovereignty is to violate our political sovereignty; and therefore those fundamental impediments are there, we follow them by questioning them. But still, with this framework, it would be possible to make another economic planning, Mr Martínez, and other proposals for the route towards the expenditure programme. Because there's a political framework problem, it's there, but there's also a problem with the political decisions that you've been adopting for ten years; ten years at the service of that centralism, that neoliberal agenda that puts us in line with statistics. That's why we are presenting this amendment to the whole, because one more year we have to say that these budgets do not recover the conditions or rights that we have of the Greeks and Greeks before they arrive at the Government, neither do they serve to recover public services that are in a critical situation, nor do they devote their efforts to the political priorities that we believe should be marked at the beginning of 2020. Besides, you -- and I have to insist on this issue -- have a wrong diagnosis, and you showed it again this morning. Mr Martínez, as we have warned you in committee, you seem to make a report of all these threats — such as the Brexit, like the trade war, like the slowdown of the economy itself — but by a magical mystery of humanity it seems that this country will not be affected simply because you are in government. I'm sorry to tell you, Mr. Martínez, but you're the homeopathics of economic planning, because you don't support that multicolored country that you paint us, and that's irresponsible. [[Applause]] You just keep doing what you've been doing for a decade because rectification at this point would have assumed that you were wrong. But that has serious consequences on our country. We understand that you don't want to see your failure, but of course, you're out there in that real Galicia that needs a change of direction. And that is precisely what we are trying to reflect on this alternative proposal, both in revenue and in expenditure priorities. As for income policy, Mr Martínez, we have introduced a year more numerous changes, first, because we need to have more economic resources, because that less can be done has been shown in this decade that is not possible. And secondly, because it is an imperative to modify that absolutely regressive and continuing fiscal framework that presents us from the People's Party to obscene limits; like that issue of wealth tax, of the million euros, of what we have already discussed both in committee and today morning. It's becoming increasingly clear that you are the antidotes directly to progressiveity, redistribution and social justice. That's why we have an alternative model. One more year we insist on changing the IRPF and the estate tax to introduce a progress that is real. We also bet on the abolition of these regressive changes to the succession tax and maintain the proposal for five new taxes, because it is necessary to guide the economic model and consumption habits towards that Galicia that we want to build and influence the development of our economy as well. This would also allow us to get more than 100 million euros extra for all our needs, which are many and growing. For example, we introduced another year's tax on large commercial surfaces. This is a proposal that is not new on the part of the Galego Nationalist Block but that allows us to see how all the excuses that have been putting us on the table this past decade have not been maintained. They said it was illegal, it was anti-European, etc. For the Court of Justice of the European Union has already confirmed that it was legal and that it was possible, and even we have examples within the Spanish State — Asturias, for example — like the English Court, which has just lost a month ago, and the Supreme Court ratifies that they have to pay those taxes. So it's legal, it's possible and it's necessary, like so many other things you don't fall from. We also insist on a year's tax on sugared beverages, too much sugar. This is a recommendation by the World Health Organization itself because of the great problem it poses as regards public health and also the impact it has on health itself. The OECD itself recently also published a report last month assessing the cost of obesity in the state economy, placing it in 2.9 % of gross domestic product. A Welsh newspaper, La Voz de Galicia, estimated how much he could expect that, and compared it to what it was four times the cost of this country's pensions; with which, we can get an idea of the impact that this has on both the loss of resources and the cost of public health. We think ultimately that fiscal policy has to be an instrument for intervening in the problems of society, and that is why we also address one of the most serious issues that we have in our society today, which is the whole housing issue. Accessing a housing today, even to a renter, is practically a hate; that's because of the escalation of prices, also because of the shortage of wages and also because public intervention is necessary, first, in speculation, and second, also to promote the existence of an adequate public park, because we're also seeing how there are places that have very specific problems. This Parliament is located in the city of Santiago de Compostela, where we see how, precisely because of tourist pressure, we see students every year who don't find where to live. So we, in summary, have introduced an empty housing tax so that those unemployed who have been unemployed for more than two years have been burned up without any justification and are thus able to expand the housing park. This, together with additional measures in the state of expenditure, such as the empty housing mobilization plan for social rent, because it is time for the Government of Greece to deal with intervention in the real estate market in this country and not the Voitre funds and the foreign funds. And this whole alternative model in the fiscal field, we've also completed it with other kinds of taxes that we think we need. In short, this is a fiscal policy that would not affect the majority of society in their savings, that would bet on a new model in the economy, in the social sector, in the environment and also in the prosecutor, and that would add more than 200 million extras to total budgets - in our amendment we mobilise 1,200 million euros - that would allow a very necessary change of course also in the priorities of expenditure. In short, Mr. Martínez, we, in our priority of spending, what we have done is to see that there is outside this Parliament, that there is outside San Caetano, and to see what needs the Greek society is now demanding. That's why we focus our proposals on three main areas: on one hand, on responding to the demands of today's Galician society; on the other hand, on responding also to the demands of that industrial crisis and the productive sectors that we are living in; and, finally, on recovering the public services damaged by this black decade of Nuñez Feijóo. He said that, first of all, we seek to respond to the demands that the current Greek society is having, because we understand that budgets cannot be made like a repetitive copy-paste from the Business Council year by year and without looking around. Today, the truth is that, reading the needs that you are pointing out, these budgets could be of any other historical age, and that makes no sense at all, Mr. Martínez. For example, they don't respond to the needs of German feminists in the streets. Can these budgets be the same as if there were no massive mobilizations in 2018 and 2019, demanding more resources and more commitment? We understand you don't. Of course, in this coming week, we'll see a lot of leftover ties, but what you didn't bring these budgets you presented to us is sufficient resources. That's why we once again insisted on moving in our amendment to that motto that we shouted in the streets of "less regret and more budget." And we insist again that more than 1 euro per 100 vaa destined for a Greek pact against violence against the masculine. [[Applause]] Nor is it understood that these budgets are completely unaware of the problem in this country with the wage divide. The Greek women charge almost Euro5,500 a year less than men. It seems that this matter doesn't go with the Galician Union, because it's only dedicated to it by budgeting, less than 1 million euros; and we, of course, what we do is multiply that effort by four, with a Welsh strategy to eliminate the wage divide. Because we need ambition to improve our living conditions and we also need to respond to other needs that society has highlighted as, for example, everything that concerns environmental matters. I have to say that it is an evolutionary and cognitive advance on the part of the People's Party that now no longer denies that climate change exists. But, in any case, to nothing that we look at these budgets — by many green capitalism strategies and power points that present us here when the environmental advisor comes in — the truth is that they offer nothing new. And we understand that this is very serious because today really the great factory of climate change in this country is the Junta of Galicia with that failed policy of Sogama and incineration, it is the Junta of Galicia with that policy of eucalyptization of our mountains and our agricultural lands. So we keep insisting, you always go late and make patches once you dictate them to European regulations. But we propose that Galicia be placed at vanguard and that they assume that they stop vetoing those strategies that have already worked and that we have already demonstrated, for example, with the Pontevedra model that they were appropriate. That's why we propose a Welsh urban waste management strategy that promotes home and community composting. And this is linked to another great area in which we are focusing many proposals, which is what meets this industrial crisis in this country and which you cannot ignore. Today at last, at least in the morning debate, you were able to say "industrial crisis" in this forum; but the truth is, in budgets there is nothing to be taken care of, and you have to take care of emergencies and you have to take care of a model change. The emergencies, because it's hard to understand that these budgets don't have a specific share for the intensive industry, to meet the comarcas affected by changes in energy transition, we propose it again. And look at what I'm saying, let's propose it again because last year this was also a problem and you were covering your eyes. We also propose plans for economic reactivation for the regions that are in crisis due to relocation situations, because while you close Poligal, while you close Isowat, while you move companies, while the northern European region of Portugal increases its weight, industrial employment, we destroy it; that is why you have to include in these budgets of the Galician Union specific proposals. We also propose a specific strategy for his failed naval strategy. But he insisted that it is necessary not only to take care of emergencies, but to bet on a structural change in the production model. And that's why we propose once again in this House to make a Greek pact for science. Stop putting us in the line of innovation. The European horizons, the recommendations, bet on placing investment on a 3% of the gross domestic product and we propose that it start with a plan of 35 million, to increase progressively. We also propose a program for the consolidation of the Welsh research career, because you like to come here and tell us that we have an innovative country, a young Galicia, etc., but then what do you give us your budgets? For example, those at the Education Council are still again diverting funds that should go to the consolidation of the Welsh research career. For what? To make another building in the City of Culture. We need less cement and more innovation, to bet on strategic sectors as well, for example, for public participation in the energy sector. [[Applause]] We understand that this month, that all the Greeks and the Greeks are going to pay more for our light receipt, you should fall from the donkey, assume that your strategy in this sector was a mistake and bet on a change of direction. With regard to the need for a Greek public bank, we insist, Mr. Martínez, that if you don't scandalize us to tell us that they're going to make a public contest so that we pay the cashiers to the banking institutions, because you can pick up some of that budget and design a Welsh public bank that reconstitutes the Greek financial system. And finally, I wanted to make a mention of the time I have left that this proposal that we make responds to the crisis of public services, which I will later develop more time in the replica. You can't give this debate in October or November 2019, Mr. Martínez, without talking about the situation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u69	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u70	...of Vigo, of this anomaly in the area of Vigo, and without putting on the table proposals that put the BNG, like the rescue of the Álvaro Cunqueiro...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u71	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u72	...and the public purchase of Povisa. In short - we will continue on the next turn - these are proposals that put the target, Mr. Martínez, in the needs of Galicia today, in the needs of real Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u73	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u74	...and not in that world of Yupi that you painted us this morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u75	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. For the Joint Left Group, Mrs. Torregrosa Sanñudo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u76	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are debating here today, desperate, the last budgets of this legislation, because, as much as the figures do not give them the reason, there is no remoter will on the part of the Government to make a critical assessment of its results, and repeat the same expired recipes, without indications of having solutions to address the strategies needed to address the economic downturn that is about to come. His policies of cutting off the majority of society for the benefit of an already privileged minority have made the distribution of wealth in our country, far from balanced during this recovery period, even more open the social gap. That growth that makes you proud of four years -- as they say -- of an expansive phase of the economy -- has not affected either the well-being of families, the elimination of working precariousness, the achievement of decent pensions, the provision of housing at moderate prices, public transport, or quality public health or education. On the contrary, the sum of all those social cuts has led the younger ones to leave, leaving a diminished Galician population and growing in poverty. Its revenue is simple: dismounting public services by cutting budgets, and, when it is already shown that they don't work, selling them for nothing to private companies that, curiously, not only are they interested in acquiring them, but they benefit them, in addition to and still above, from agreeing to buy them if the profit is not enough, but at a much higher price. From these assumptions, they make the report, denying reality, disqualifying alternatives, figures and objective valuations. But what we have to see is that in its government, for ten years, 54,000 jobs were lost in Galicia, 22,400 in the industrial sector, and there were 900 million euros in cuts to social policies: 300 less in education, 218 in health care, 209 in employment policies and 162 in housing policies. Living and employment, the two themes that are of greatest concern today to the Greeks and the Greeks, suffered cuts of 66.8% in housing and 43.2% in employment, with a very bad degree of execution: in the latter, 42%, only 133 million unexpended. And we have 17% less for the dynamization of rural areas, 45% less for fisheries policies, 17% less for industrial policies, 33% less for business development, and 60% less for trade support. We have half the resources for cultural policies and one third for the promotion of the Greek language, in real terms, compared to 2009, and 18% less for the promotion of tourism, even though their bet on Xacobeo is the only hope that they have left to maintain economic growth, and always repeating to satiety that speech, that mantra, that Galicia is doing well. Even though they want to stem the complaints of workers and health workers, education, industry and precarious employment with Jacob and Santiago, reality is coming up and they have no solutions. But out you have to keep listening to your own self-congratulations; it's always the fault of the others. Your recipe, Mr. Counsellor, lacks the necessary ingredients to be digestible; it is not deductible for most Greeks and Greeks, to whom you insist that they defend while political measures are proving otherwise. Don't deceive us, per capita GDP growth is because bad employment policies make it necessary to leave this country in order to live. The budget you are presenting today is nearly 2,000 million less than the one in real terms in 2009 and a tripled public debt. We're left with no money! We think it is possible to build a different budget and political model, with budgets that are actually implemented and that we all believe that they are necessary for the priorities that this country has. Surely you yourself agree with this, Counselor, as you said in your speech. They don't have to begin to explain that, as an excuse, the slowdown that will come will again justify all their cutting policies, always the same. What our group proposes is what is needed to endure the slowdown that comes without falling on the popular majority, that you will do nothing but justify it again. We therefore propose in point 1 to amend the tax measures to increase resources, and in point 2 to distribute them to the benefit of citizenship, not to the large capital alone. That's why we're going to make a three-axis revenue proposal: first, the increase in government resources. On the one hand, the increase in the autonomic financial system, the SFA, based on the reality of positive settlement over the arrivals to the account, EUR 338 million in the last period. The good behavior of the present exercise in taxes such as VAT -- one of the most relevant taxes in quantitative terms -- is growing in our country by 8.2% against the average state, which is at 2.2%. This government also opts to undervalue the final settlement of the 2018 autonomous financing system, which remains at 28 million euros to be received. We propose, then, a strict estimate of these incomes to be used with property in budget items. We also propose the revision and modification of the Interterritorial Compensation Fund (ICF), detaching it from the new investment of the General Government of the State and linking it to the consolidated non-financial expenditure of the General Government of the State, which could be in a profit of 410 million euros. Also, in the second point, we propose the revision of the autonomous tax system, since we have one of the least progressive tax systems in the whole of the state, which you and your budgetary policies intend to consolidate. We are talking here about the increase and exemption from the tax of successions and prayers up to a million euros and the expansion of the degree of kinship to 99% in the inheritance tax, both of which have to be reviewed and modified. This way they won't benefit themselves, Mr. Martínez, most of the Galicians, as you say, of course not. These tax benefits together would amount to 541 million, which are a voluntary waiver on their part that is going to be directly harmful to most people who depend on social spending. As a third point, we believe that it would be important to strengthen inspection and fight against tax fraud. According to the Technical Union of the Ministry of Business, the economy submerged in the provinces of Ourense and Lugo rotates around 30%. They can't stay away, there's a need for an inspection plan against tax fraud, which would bring, we estimated, 10 million euros more. In total, we would reach 560 million euros more for social justice. And also a reformulation of priorities in public spending, removing certain sections of the budget, for a total amount of EUR 332.188.098. The result would be that with all these amounts we could have, for what we are calling social investment, the total amount of almost 900 million euros. Among the measures that we highlight are an integral plan to fight against poverty and full social inclusion; a large share of social budget to benefit most of citizenship in the weakest sectors and that have suffered and continue to suffer the effects of the poorly managed crisis; the transition to a Galician social income; the guarantee of the right to housing and the fight against infra-vival; the new residences and day centres in large cities; the increase of the staff frames of the public centres of the Council, improving the ratios of care and support to needs to municipalities in social matters to care for homeless people; also early attention; the real fulfillment of the Law on the Elimination of Architectural Barriers in Public Buildings; the universalization of public education from 0 to 3 years; the strengthening of assessment and disability teams; the increase of the Home Help Programme; a Galician Strategy also against unemployment, precariousness and age in the labour market, because since the beginning of its use in this last year. Employment policies, which rise by 4,6 % from the 2019 budget, were insufficient in 2019 and lose weight in the overall budget, suffered a cut of more than 146 million nominal terms from the 2009 fiscal year. Employment policies are the ones that have suffered the most from the cuts made by Mr Feijóo's governments in the worst moments of the crisis, no more than 209 million in real terms, about 43.2%. They cut the employment policies almost half of what was before the crisis and, of course, they only executed 70%. According to the provisional data on the liquidation of the 2018 fiscal year, in that exercise your advisor, the Economic Council, left without spending more than 55 million euros on employment policies. So we added a plan to improve and guarantee universal public health. In health matters, we note as a priority the improvement of primary care, as well as the improvement of the Greek health facilities with a plan that contemplates the improvement of existing centers and the creation of dozens of new primary care centres where necessary; the replacement of staff paintings; a plan to shock waiting lists; oral health; improvements in games devoted to addictions, as we are at a moment of utmost concern for the increase in ludopathy; a plan for mental health; prevention of drug dependence, HIV and the creation and adequacy of hospital centers with the municipalities and Fegamp. Even so, a plan to guarantee universal public education, with a clear objective, which is to guarantee access to public education of quality, and for this we propose a plan to transform agreed education into a multi-annual plan for fully public education. We also intend to increase resources to suit the situation of schools in public education, as well as to increase resources to ensure equal education. In addition, we defend — and we have moved it in these amendments — the need to get the religion out of public schools — and we remember that the teaching of Religion has a cost of about 20 million euros, the expansion of teaching squares to consolidate the staffing and the increase in the supply of centres, especially children and primary schools. And I've already gone on to sum up, because I don't have time left: we've added a shock plan against macho violence, a galley guarantee plan and constitutional right of access to decent housing, a plan against energy poverty, an industrial reactivation plan, the strengthening of research, development and innovation policies, a plan for the ecological transition and an environmental protection plan and the new waste management model. Even so, we added: a plan for the recovery of the rural environment, the fight against fires and the recovery of the rural population; a rescue plan for the marine and marine sector; improvements in mobility, infrastructure and public transport policies; a plan for the promotion and universal access to culture; the strengthening of linguistic normalization, and more resources for cooperation. The application of these strategies would increase income by 500 million euros, with the aim of implementing an economic policy that fosters growth based on the productive economy, which brings to citizenship greater wealth and greater well-being, combating inequality, precariousness, poverty and exclusion. Finished with a phrase by Piketty: "Tax tax progression is directly related to the emergence of social spending and the state of well-being. Those proposals that promulgate the disappearance of taxes and/or the reduction of progressiveity also point to their disappearance." I hope it's the last budget of a government on the right in Galicia so that the wave of change in the state reaches our country too and by 2020 there's a left-wing government. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u77	Thank you very much, Mrs. Torregrosa. Mr Fernández Leiceaga has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u78	Today I have a double day: morning and evening. It's okay. [[Laughter]] In the morning we explain why we defend the return of budgets and criticize the model that, in our understanding, is a model that does not respond to the needs of our country at the moment. But now, at this afternoon session — I hope it will not be a child session — it is about explaining that another budgetary policy is possible; it is possible to correct the shortcomings and correct the wrong priorities of the Galician Union. That is to say, it is possible to promote more employment, to promote more equality and economic modernization, to strengthen public services, to promote the transition to a sustainable economy, in view of climate emergency, and, of course, to act more decisively in terms of gender-based violence or in favour of the recovery of historical memory. Our figures are modest: we are considering a correction of four hundred twenty-seven million euros. Basically, a little less than half would be income and what's missing, a policy of changing some of the expenditure priorities. It's not spectacular figures, though it depends on how you look. It's not much if we compare it to the budget set -- we're talking about a 4.15% variation. But if we compare it with the budgetary margin, which manages and explains in its documents the Council and is something above the 300 million euros, we are seeing that this actually means more than double the amounts available to the decision-maker to meet other expenditure priorities. Not bad. In any case, we try to make a realistic proposal; a proposal that meets the regulations of budgetary stability, that has a source of the known funds, that does not break the legislation that is currently in force in Spain and that ultimately generates funds in a way that is possible and sustainable in time. The first thing we correct is the liquidation of 2018 because, between the budget was presented in this chamber and today, we know an estimate of the liquidation of 2020, made public by the Council of Ministers and which exceeds twenty-eight million euros — twenty-eight and peak — the amounts that are recorded in the budget. It seems wise to be able to introduce it in order to apply more faithfully what the Central Administration is moving to Galicia. And besides, by agreeing in the spirit, and in many ways also, with other parties present in the House, we promote an income policy that is not conformist and that is more progressive than the one that appears collected in the Budget of the Galician Union. We strengthen, for example, income from IRPF. It is not an excessive amount, but we believe that from 47,600 euros in individual declaration it is possible to rise marginal rates at least, without this giving rise to a loss in terms of efficiency. We'd generate more resources and we'd earn something in equity but without losing it effectively. In succession tax, what we are proposing is to maintain the situation prior to these budgets; that is to say, to keep the minimum free in EUR 400,000 per heir but the usual housing. As is well known, Junta proposes to go up to a million euros in this document, but the usual housing but the family business. No doubt, Counsellor, with this proposal that you make, you must congratulate him on his contribution to social equality, equity and the formation of a more just society. I would like to make it clear, if you are going to intervene, to explain clearly the orientation of these measures. As for wealth tax, we have two basic changes: the first, a decrease in the minimum exempt up to EUR 400,000, and the second, the maintenance of the types prior to the entry into force of last year's reform, which involved a 20% reduction for taxpayers subject to this tax, which are those seven thousand and seventy people — more or less — who have a greater heritage in our community. This is the target audience of this tax. And we've also calculated it last year; that decrease meant an average reduction of 600 euros. I think these are amounts that can well be faced with, without too much difficulty, this kind of taxpayer. I believe, moreover, that there was no social demand for this change. I'm sure in certain circles this was very well received. As I said before, to lower one's taxes when, moreover, he doesn't ask for it, of course, it's a source of satisfaction. But I don't think that, from the point of view of the common good, from the point of view of general interests, this is the best of measures. The redistributive effect of medium and long-term wealth tax is remarkable. The concentration of wealth is higher than the concentration of income. Without a doubt, it is worth following the guidelines that we indicate in these budgets. Thirdly, we generate income through the reinforcement of green taxation and a more determined fiscal action. We want a modest tax on large commercial surfaces. And we also want to reflect the environmental costs of certain activities that are not recorded and that in other autonomous communities if they are taxed — therefore we know they are viable — in such a way as to generate a double dividend: a tax dividend but also an environmental dividend, insofar as they should motivate a change in the behaviour of firms — because in this case they are companies, which will support this tax. And we also want a modernization with a rise to the rise not very remarkable of the current recording by the exploits of the encouraged water, which since its promulgation has been losing weight in the whole. We also believe that it is possible to improve collection management slightly — there is no doubt a margin — with the reinforcement of the fight against tax fraud, as well as to better budget the income of some entities or some tax advisors who, depending on the collection of previous years and the collection until September 30, we believe that they may have little adjustments. This would give us around 200 million euros in total of new resources, which we would make available for a policy with different priorities. But at the same time, we reduce spending by less than this amount, but also important, through the reduction of unproductive expenses. We believe that, indeed, we must recognize that the Council of Galicia has made an effort in these years, as almost all administrations have done, because we have moved to a phase where public revenues were cut off as a result of the crisis. And this forced a lot of adjustment. But we believe that there are still leaves and margins that can be used. For example, spending on office staff. I know you're going to tell me that in 2009 this was higher, etc. Yes, but ten years have passed and we think there are still strikes here. It has been said that in some councils, more cabinet staff are spent than in management staff. In that sense, we believe it would be important to adopt a rule that regulates — let us say — the number of people who can be part of the cabinets and their wages. And if we applied this rule, we could introduce a savings. It's not about completely eliminating them — we're not talking about this — but about adjusting something about this expenditure. We also believe that there is a spending on advertising and propaganda too high that is often collected under the heading of "Intangible Investments", which in many cases are a very high percentage of Chapter VI, of Real Investments, in some parts. Nor do we want to eliminate all advertising and propaganda costs; I know there are health campaigns that must be done, consumer-related campaigns, lots of campaigns in some offices. But if you go to the details of the budget document, you'll see that in some cases there are volumes, no doubt, excessive ones, which have some danger this election year. And for what? We want to correct priorities with measures: First, from impulse to growth. The industrial and labour crisis in Galicia, which is beyond doubt, should lead to the incorporation of new programmes that address this situation. But, however, the song — this morning we were talking about another song — is Life is still the same; there is no change in the budget of the Industry Council. And we believe that there must be a plan for the fair energy transition, that there must be actions in the field of electro-intensive industries, that there must be a specific plan for comarcas affected by coal plants, and therefore this must be introduced into the budget. It's good to ask the central government and other administrations to put something on their side, and it's even better if, in addition, in the budget, we collect measures and resources to do them. We believe that industrial policy on dynamising business soil can be stepped up, on investment capture, or on a plan for rural business development or training staff, particularly in the metal-mechanical sectors, where we believe that it is necessary. In R+D+i, the same thing. A little bit of an effort; not only in terms of resources, but also in terms of organization, as I explained this morning. Not a job? More things can be done; basically, more funds can be executed. If these were to be implemented, they could be strengthened with some priorities that for us are not, of course, well collected. In the strategy of combating unemployment, we have to make an effort in two areas: younger people, who have more difficulty entering the labour market, and long-term unemployed. We believe this should be better collected in this budget document. And a return plan, that there's something in the budget. But it is not compatible — as you said before — to establish a return plan and at the same time deny the reality of selective emigration. This morning I was told the counselor: you say that those who are left here are dumber. No, what I'm saying is that those who stay here usually have a lower level of education, at least have resources in family terms, less relational capital, and therefore they must be helped when they are unemployed and cannot enter the labour market. But we must also try to capture those who leave. And this, which is part of your policies, is not treated in the best way in the budget. Much of the additional resources are aimed at strengthening public services: education, health and university among them, selectively. In education and health, an effort must be made on two sides: in terms of personnel and infrastructure. In matters of staff, in the case of health, to try to meet those needs that tell us the strategic document that has just introduced the Council, made by a group of experts. This morning I read some sections of the conclusions of that document and, no doubt, in order to attend them, an additional staff effort is needed. Reducing precariousness also means spending a little bit more — not much more, but spending a little more — and, above all, changing the contract regime. It is important to address deficits in mental health, in terms of speech therapists, in terms of physiotherapy, in matters of this type. The result of the adjustment that the Council undoubtedly had to make these years, his staffing in Galicia leaves much to be desired. In education, again, it is about increasing resources aimed at improving access to certain areas — for example, master's courses — but also favouring bottom-up in the system. The spending on education from 0 to 3 years is what has the highest social return. You plan to do it from the second child; we plan to do it from the first child, but with an income criterion. For the first, the second and the next, but with an income criterion. No doubt, there are people who have a high income level — more than forty-seven thousand euros, more than sixty thousand euros — and need no help even if they have three or four children, they can be allowed to go to a nursery or a childhood school; others, on the other hand, with only one child, have difficulty going. So what we're thinking is we're also introducing the income criterion. At universities, we propose a program for completely free registrations — the first registrations — and, above all, negotiating with the university a change in the registration system, so that efficiency is also promoted. Because there are degrees where it takes too many years to finish the race, and that's not good. We think we need to make an effort in this direction. We also believe that housing, infrastructure or social or environmental policy efforts must be welcomed into the budget document. I'll try to explain them in my second intervention. Counsellor, it is possible to have another budgetary policy and another action plan, more social, more employment-centred, with more environmental content, which fosters an economic policy that is more conducive to inclusive growth. This is what we propose. It's possible, and I hope, if it's not this year, we can put it into practice next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u79	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. The councilman of Fairy has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. After the debate this morning, in which we were able to debate and confront the economic policy models of each parliamentary group, we are now examining the transversal amendments. I've already made it very difficult for you to be able to agree with the positions of the opposition groups because, as I shall try to explain, they have their origin in premises which cannot be accepted by this Government. We've already carried four budgets in this legislation and its formulations continue to be, as well as what we call ourselves, very similar to those of previous years. Obviously, the economic model of the Government is different from that of the opposition groups and the discrepancies are logical. They do not understand, please, in my words, the Government's lack of will to pay attention to its formulations — those of all parliamentary groups — because we have analysed them, and quite in detail. But I think they have two general problems: in practice, many of them cannot be executed, and in many other cases, including them, it was supposed to have to give up the measures that we consider very necessary in these budgets. But, above all, where we disagree most is the way opposition groups want to have more income. One more year, opposition groups want to raise taxes to the Greeks, and they also insist, in some cases, that items that we have no guarantee of receiving are considered to have more income. The responsibility of this German Government and our model lead to the fact that, on the one hand, we do not want to include dubious compliance income and, on the other hand, that we do not want to raise taxes, and less at the stage of the slowdown in which we find ourselves, to avoid falling into errors of a relatively recent past. In this case, and with roundaboutness, I tell you that the model of the Greek Government is antithetic to yours. Faced with the rise in taxes proposed by the opposition, ours is to lower taxes whenever possible and, in any case, avoid them. In view of the opposition's intention to paint income, our model is rigorous and prudent, to include only income that we are sure to receive. Before referring more specifically to the formulations of each parliamentary group, I also reiterate that, although not in as many cases as in previous years, there are still amendments that have the character of irrevocable. I am referring to those who are asking to withdraw finalist resources from the state or European funds, because they — as we all know — must be used in a concrete manner, so they cannot be used for what you make. And also, as could not be otherwise, there are examples of reasonable suggestions, but we cannot include whether they are supposed to give up other priority games for our Government action. Let's go more often. To the voice of the mixed group: to its proposal to increase taxes by almost two hundred million euros to the Greeks — specifically, two hundred and sixteen — and to inflate the Interterritorial Compensation Fund by 10 million euros, because what do you want me to say? In addition to proposing to increase indebtedness by 40 million euros. Surprising! "As I told you in the morning." They criticize obeisance in the morning and want to increase it in the evening. Our answer is obvious: we do not agree to increase taxes or include resources that we are not sure of receiving. The Interterritorial Compensation Fund is regulated by law, if we want to modify the resources it allocates, we have to do so in the State Parliament; we cannot decide what we can include here. But I've already told you that if there's a new government in the state that finally succeeds in approving new budgets and these include more income in the FCI, there is no doubt that they will be included. But today, that's not possible. And of course, we don't want to increase the debt either. As for taxes. They want to increase the IRPF for sections greater than EUR 150,000, but they don't explain how, and we don't know how they intend to raise those six million euros. They want to review the property tax to raise it in 9 million euros. Our intention - I have explained - is to continue to maintain this tribute at the current state rate; exactly the same as the two-party government applied between 2005 and 2009. They also want to derogate the proposed new reduction in succession tax, to raise 10 million euros. In this regard, I believe that the reduction to EUR 400,000 per heir between direct relatives, in force since 2016, — I have commented on it — is being very well received, and now we raise it to EUR 1 million to continue on the path that we have already begun at that time, which is nothing other than to maintain the entire family heritage and the economic capacity of the family. I insist that the discount since 2016 has benefited 355,000 Greeks, of which 108,000 have agreed to a successor pact. As for the bid to raise the deposit tax of credit institutions by 2 million euros, it would increase the estimate by 10%. But without marking on the basis that we make this 10% increase in this type of deposit tax. Obviously, it's not possible to climb the guys because, even if their collection is being handed over, as this Government had requested, this tribute remains a state tribute to what we have no powers, and our estimates, in particular, I think are well-founded. There are also EUR 50 million in environmental damage tax caused by certain uses and uses of encouraged water. But do you know how much increase the type of recording would be? About four hundred percent to reach this amount. In addition, they do not take into account the nature of this engraving, which is an environmental tax of an extra fiscal nature directed at the correction and compensation of the environmental impact and which cannot therefore be changed solely for purposes of collection. The same explanation applies to the amendment by the Left Joint Group, which, at a rate close to 200 percent, intends to raise 30 million more euros. As for the rise of 20 million euros in the wind canon to tax based on power, it almost doubles the amount currently collected, and they don't indicate what specific changes they propose. The model of the German Government is to take over a smaller number of re-engineering and bet on the repotency of parks, so that there is less, for a lower environmental impact, but with greater power. In addition, they want to create an autonomous tax on large commercial areas to raise 12 million euros. Nor do they say how they calculate the figure, nor especially what model they want to know if, as here was also commented by some other group to other groups, the Supreme Court could indicate, on the basis of that model that is intended, whether we are in the presence of a State aid or not. At this point, of course, I am also referring to the rest of the opposition groups, because they propose the same tax every and every one of you, but with a very sharp collection: 4 million euros, the Common Left Group; 6 the PSdG Group; and 61.8, the BNG. They only coincide in one aspect: none of the four groups propose that specific model that I used to tell them. And, looking at the projected figures so disparate, it seems that the models must be quite different. They also want to impose an autonomous tax on sugared beverages to raise 15 million euros — I am referring to the amendments of the Joint Group at the moment; we are back — but again, without any concrete model of taxation. Here I also go to the Joint Left Group, which makes this same tribute to raise 500,000 euros, and to the BNG, which does it to raise 15 million euros. Nor on this occasion does none of these groups propose a specific model. And we continue with another new tax proposal. In this case for empty or tourist apartments or for large owners. It plans to collect 2 million euros, again without explaining how. In this regard, I will tell you that Law 1/2019 of 22 April on rehabilitation, regeneration and urban renewal of Galicia regulates the canon of property declared in state of abandonment, which will record those immovable property that are declared in state of abandonment by the Galego da Vivenda e Solo Institute. This canon will begin to apply next January 2020, and the first income will occur in 2021. Management shall be carried out through receipt and revenue shall be allocated to rehabilitation actions in the area where the properties declared in state of abandonment are located. On the other hand, if what they're proposing is a tax on income from tourist rentals, I remind you that these incomes consist of yields recorded by the IRPF or corporate tax, so the Autonomous Community cannot impose its own tax. In this case, the Galician Nationalist Block also proposes this tax, but with an estimated collection nearly eighteen times higher. They also don't point to how, but of course, they would be very disparate by the clear difference in the collection: on the one hand, 2 million euros from the Joint Group; on the other hand, 35.2 million from the BNG. Surprising. On the review of tax benefits, with an impact of EUR 35 million, they don't detail anything. I imagine it will be because all you want to do is paint incomes without dare to say: I want to remove deductions to birth, to large families, to foster care, to care for minor children, to rent and buy housing for young people, to large families and persons with disabilities, or to reduce deductions to new-create companies, which require a certain level of employment. I think they're more than enough examples. And finally, he plans to increase an inspection plan and fight tax fraud by 15 million euros. Well, we agree -- as I said today in the morning -- in the strategy, we've seen it boosting since 2009, with special reinforcement after the creation of Atriga. Thus, as of 2018, Atriga has achieved an increase of EUR 178.3 million in undeclared debt thanks to fiscal control actions, which means a 24% increase over 2017. But don't be mistaken, in tax fraud, the biggest performances don't depend on the Galician Tax Agency. As far as resources are concerned, the usual thing in all parliamentary groups is to reduce any staff expenditure, year after year, ask for it. It's amazing, because they say the opposite of what they did, and very specifically I refer to the Socialist Party and the BNG. So for you to have a data, although next year, 2020, it will be significantly lower than you spent on the bipartisan government, spending on possible cabinet staff is 22.7% lower in nominal terms than in the last year of the bipartisan government; that is, we're saving about 2 million euros a year, with an add-on that I've also heard from other times. There is no one in this government who has been working since the first day and is covering less than 1,000 euros, as if it were at the Bipartisan Government stage. I've already told you that on this subject both the PSdEG and the BNG should not try to demagogy, they're not credible. It's also recurrent that they ask us to reduce expenses in parts we've allocated to on average much less than half the previous Government. Again, I remind you of your updated data. We have dropped more than 53% in office material from 2009; spent on protocol care we have decreased by 52%; spent on meetings, conferences, courses, decreases by more than half; spending on advertising and propaganda has been reduced by more than 60%. As for the minorities that he makes, I know there are amendments that we can no longer deal with, although they may be some interesting because they take money to fund games conditional on final transfers. Then there's a package from which transfers from entities are removed, but they don't adjust their budget. I mean, for example, Amtega, Infrastructure Agency, Galicia Quality, or the City of Culture, among others. Of course, there are four groups and I can't go to the specific case, but I'll just tell them some other amendments that remove resources for basic actions. I'm thinking, for example, about safety at work and health surveillance. Finally, in increased spending games there is a general impossibility of taking them into account, because while they indicate that the plans they propose amount to 489 million euros, then the sum of all these plans increases the amount to 537. We can't take them into consideration in a simple amount of 48 million euros, so we can't take them into consideration. BNG's voicer, like the Joint Group, I'm telling you that we don't want to raise taxes to the Greeks in more than 225 million euros. First of all, we refuse that the Greeks pay 47 million more for the succession tax. I refer to the statement to the Joint Group. We refuse to increase EUR 22 million to the IRPF with new income tranches greater than EUR 120,000. Our model is a more equitable tax system, with a reduction in average and low incomes, as we try to argue this morning. Let me stop at the top of the wealth tax at 39.1 million euros. It turns out that the BNG, when it ruled, applied, between 2005 and 2009, the current rate, and now wants to raise it nothing more and nothing less than 40 million euros. That's right, without explaining the minimum exemption they want to set and the rate. As for the tax on the provision of electronic communications services, with which they intend to collect 5.1 million, just remind you that Catalonia established it in 2014 and was declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court in 2017. On taxes of large surfaces, on empty dwellings and on over-sugar beverages, I refer myself to the saying to the Mixed Group. As for minorities, some amendments, as with the Joint Group, cannot be accepted because they reduce or eliminate funds financed from European funds and final funds from the state, and they cannot be used for the alternative they propose. As an example, BNG does not want the European funds to be heard, I say, because they withdraw the European co-financing start. They also want to eliminate half of the planned transfer to municipalities in the selective collection of waste, also with co-financed resources. I'm not going to insist on any of the reductions they make about the office staff or non-material expenses, each one of them withdraws when he's given the opportunity. But there are other truly surprising minorities. They want to eliminate incentive programmes for young people over 45 years and long-term unemployed for 11.2 million euros. And they ask to eliminate 4.6 million euros from the autonomous. Curious way of favouring these priority groups! They also take away 2 million euros from the support network for people in rural areas, and they don't seem to be a lot of bet on the forest sector because they want to get rid of the forest agency in practice. I could keep setting examples. Even there are games where even lower than the credit we have allocated for 2020, I want to think that by mistake. We also found several games that are even removed more than once. And in the higher costs they make, in most cases they increase resources and actions that are already guaranteed in budgets. I am referring to amendments such as strengthening primary care, ensuring oral prevention, production and distribution of the audiovisual sector or linguistic normalisation in children or adolescents. I believe that all matters are addressed in these accounts delivered to the House, but, like everything in this life, I'm sure if we ask each counselor or each advisor the propensity to spending would be much higher. For all these reasons, we cannot incorporate their amendments. Joint Left Group. We are also against, as I said to you, raising taxes to the Greeks in 150 million euros, Mrs Torregrosa, and including another 410 without any legal basis. Let's start with tax increases. They ask for 49.5 million more of the tax of successions and prayers and they intend to rescind by nullifying the discount with the German Government and reviewing the tax benefits. I can't agree, obviously, and I think it's already answered enough when I was trying to answer them to the Joint Group and BNG. I can tell you the same about the rise in wealth tax, which in your case would increase the tax burden by 52 million euros. And on increasing the type of burden of environmental damage tax caused by certain uses and uses of encouraged water, as well as creating other large areas, I think I have answered earlier. Other of its proposals is to review the tax benefits in property transfer taxes and documented legal acts so that the Greeks pay 2 million euros more. It doesn't seem reasonable either, because in this case we're talking about deductions that benefit young people, large families and people with disabilities. As well as deductions for the purchase of housing in sparsely populated areas. Finally, they also propose to improve the inspection plan against the fight and tax fraud, that 10 million euros of what they were talking about. I insist that we not only agree, but I believe that the data we have in the Tax Agency, in the competence which belongs to the Autonomous Community, are corroborating it, another thing is the concept of a submerged economy and what is the responsibility of other administrations. Let's now see your proposal to increase the government's income forecast to 410 million euros. They fall into the mistake of other years because, I insist, there is no legal basis. So my explanation must be the same as in previous years. The amount of advance payments to be determined by the Central Administration, which communicates the accounts corresponding to each concept, although in this case, as this was not fulfilled by the Central Government in functions, it has to be the technicians of the Business Council who make an estimate of the case, as always. We have been rigorous and prudent, unlike you, who want to inflate the deliveries to the funding system and the FCI in nothing but 410 million euros. Just as I told the Joint Group, don't worry, that if there's a new Government of the State and you finally get to approve some budgets and these include more income from the FCI, you have no doubt that they will be included, but today that's not possible. In the case of deliveries to the account, I want to clarify how it works. The amount of this transfer collects 98% of the deliveries calculated for each tax basket and the sufficient fund, as set out in Law 22/2009, so if we budget 100 percent, we would be artificially inflating the revenues to be received in the exercise, in this case, 2%, and we would be influencing them in more than 150 million euros. So if we add the non-supply funds to the account with the 2% they hold back, they'd already exceed an average of 338 million euros of settlement to which they refer in their amendment. With this explanation, I think it is clear that your proposal has at all less, precisely, rigour. They should read, please, quietly, the rule governing the financing system, which, whether we agree or not, is the legal basis on which we count. As for the minorities, they repeat incongruences over the past years, such as proposing minorities to entities I've already commented on before, like Amtega, the Infrastructure Agency or Waters, and then they don't adjust the budgets of these. Other minorities can't be put into practice because they're finalist funds, I also said. They even propose to withdraw a share of a million euros from the school concert payroll fund. You mean you're in favour of not funding the salaries of the teachers of these centers? In relation to the increase in expenditure, the figures that are coming do not match, because they propose increases in different plans amounting to 892.1 million, but the amount allocated to each plan — which does not coincide with the one set out in the text — results in EUR 920.1 million, an increase of EUR 28 million, although it is true that it is less than I previously referred to in the Joint Group, but good. To finish, there is a set of moves that could not be done, in some cases, because they repeat things in other years by changing amounts, but not adjusting the organic structure that we have in force this 2019 by 2020. As you can understand, it is not possible to accept these changes. To the spokesman of the Socialist Party. We refuse again to raise taxes to them in about 180 million euros, as they propose, to all the Greeks. That, unfortunately, we'll leave it to the PSOE and escorts at the state level. We don't want the Greeks paying 20.4 million more for the IRPF. They propose an increase in the autonomous scale for bases over 47,600 euros, without fixing it. In this respect — I insist — our tax model is known and socially accepted: lower taxes to middle and low incomes. We also don't want the Greeks to pay 28.1 million euros more for the property tax. In this case, I also humbly tell you that it is even more incoherent. I told BNG, we have the same tax as the two-party government between 2005 and 2009. And in the case of socialists it is even more surprising, because it must be remembered that it was a socialist government — that of Mr Zapatero — which temporarily abolished this tax. It's also surprising that, like last year, from the Socialist Party, they want to increase our income forecast by 65 million more for the collection of succession taxes and 21 more for the collection of documented heritage transmissions and legal acts. I repeat what I said 12 months ago. You are based on doing this calculation on net recognised rights, which remains rigorous to the estimate they perform because in that amount amounts are also included from previous years, either because the Tax Administration grants a settlement or a fractionation of income, either because that income is suspended or is in voluntary payment period, which, as established by the autonomous regulations, is cancelled at the end of the exercise. So these are not forecast for consistent income increases. We also don't want the Greeks paying 24.5 million more for environmental taxes. Besides, with all due respect, they press the proposals last year; they don't ask me, therefore, to be original in my answer. As for the installation tax that affects the environment, such as telephony, telematics and the lines of transport of electricity, we still don't know how they are calculated. The amount charged to this measure, of EUR 18 million, is the same as last year's. I say this because in this tax — which already has some autonomys — the quota varies between 175 and 1,200 euros per kilometre of high voltage line. With these guys, the collection would range between 1 and 2.2 million euros, so it doesn't seem very advisable to create a tax to collect this county. As for the tax on emissions of harmful gases to the atmosphere to raise 6.5 million euros — the same content, again, that last year — we also do not know how it is calculated and we do not know what harmful gases are intended to be recorded. At present, in Galicia, there is a tax on its own to record the contaminants to the atmosphere since 1996, the air pollution tax, which records the oxygenated compounds of nitrogen and sulphur. By their band, about the increase in the type of burden of environmental damage tax caused by certain uses and uses of encouraged water, to raise 6.5 million euros, I also believe that it is already answered when I referred to amendments to other groups, and the same for other issues. On the minorities that logically formulates, we cannot eliminate more than half of the assigned game for the construction of housing. And they must consider that it is not a good practice to mobilize unproductive lands, since they minimize the planned departure for this. We also do not agree to withdraw funding for priority hydraulic actions, which also have European co-financing. And, of course, we do not want to give up the resources for road conservation. And then I had to hear, and we all heard this morning what we heard in infrastructure. To speak and write something else. Not to mention the decreases in the office staff, which I was saying before, and why don't we also make this proposal to the current formulation and to which Mr. Pedro Sánchez's office might come, with that escalated increase in possible staff costs? It's just that we're real -- let's go! -- phenomena. [[Murmurs.]] And if we take into account the increments they propose, most of them think they're attended to by the budget presented. [[Murmurs.]] I just want — sorry — to stop in a very specific game, they want to increase the resources for the maintenance of municipal health centres! I don't know! Article 57 of this bill already states that the additional fund to the local cooperation fund will have among its destinations EUR 2.3 million for the municipalities of less than 50,000 inhabitants who have to bear operating costs at 100 percent, and yet we still want... there is no coherence! [[Laughter]] And then there's another amendment that powerfully attracts attention because they ask 1.5 million euros for the conversion of AP-9 as an urban road in Vigo, when it's a road of state ownership! I understand that whatever the board is... not to mention that they dare ask for a departure for public transport to Peinador airport. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] They make this proposal when the Vigo Town Hall refused to sign the agreement to join the metropolitan transport, necessary to reach any agreement related to the tariff and subsidy system, as they also know. [[Applause]] I believe that they are more than enough examples to justify that we cannot support your proposals. I'm going to finish. With the explanations I have just pointed out, coupled with one of the examples I have put — I do not say to all — I think it is clear that we cannot accept the amendments of the opposition groups. I repeat. In terms of income, we do not want to support a model that is characterized by seeking more income spending capacity that cannot be included in budgets and by obtaining more income by raising taxes already in force or by creating new ones. With regard to the reduction of expenditure, opposition groups reduce fundamental and priority items for the actions of the Government of Greece and draw funds from finalist games that cannot be allocated to another task. Moreover, they come up with questions that are not of autonomous competence. For all this, I believe that the most coherent and successful is to maintain our model of healthy growth, with more and better public services, with the greatest possible investment of the set of autonomous communities and new tax reductions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u81	Thank you, Counselor. Non-amendant group. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. A year ago, in this same debate I made a joke at the beginning of my speech and asked the President of Parliament to open a little skylight... [[An incidence with the microphone occurs.]] Thank you, President. A year ago, in this same debate I made a joke at the beginning of my speech urging the President of Parliament to open a skylight on the roof because there was a paratrooper waiting to enter Parliament and move Mr Leicega from the spokesman of the Socialist Group. The paratrooper has fallen, he must have been hurt because he didn't want to talk today, and that's what we are in the most important debate of the year in a parliamentary House like this! Or that, or that the paratrooper is not brave enough and he doesn't even have a political project to defend an alternative project in this House. [[Applause]] We, Mr. Leicega, are going to miss it — I sincerely say it — because, of course, what is clear is that in the Socialist Party of Mr. Caballero there is no room for those who prove valuable, for those who demonstrate talent, for those who truly know of the economy, for those who have the ability to dialogue with other political groups other than theirs; for all of them there is no room in the Socialist Party of Mr. Caballero; a Knight who remains absent because the paratrooper must have been hurt. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] I don't want to make myself look like a witch apprentice, but some of the predictions we made in this House in that debate today are fulfilled. In that debate we spoke of Mr Leicega's relief, and we also spoke of Mr Sanchez's rupture of the Weirlands, and both of which happened. [[Murmurs.]] So, with that luggage, allow me to make a third prediction -- I'm sure, the truth is, it's pretty little risky, very predictable. Look, the Government of Peter Sánchez and Paul Iglesias — or of Peter Iglesias, as they said earlier last week — will be bad for Spain, but I am convinced that it will be even worse for Galicia. It is a government born under Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero, a prelude to which he always does the left in this country, especially in this difficult marriage to understand: more unemployment, more taxes and more debt. That's what's going to happen in Spain, and that's precisely the proposals that you bring to this budget debate: more unemployment, more taxes and more debt. From the People's Parliamentary Group, from this House's majority parliamentary group, today we demand the exceptional normality that the Government is supposed to come forward and approve its budgets and do so in time and in form. They complete a decade of rigor, management capacity and political stability in Galicia; a decade of economic growth and job creation. Having said this, we'll see that all these groups are saying that they have mocked this claim when the Government that all of you are going to defend is not able to do so from next month. Because what you say is normal, which is the least a government must do, is what Mr. Pedro Sánchez hasn't done in the past year and a half. And we believe that you will hardly be able to do it from here in front of the hands of groups such as the Podemos Tides, such as the PNV, Bildu, the Republican Left of Catalonia and all the troops in which Mr. Pedro Sánchez is to be supported. There are things that don't change, year after year, in this debate, and one of the most significant, is that the opposition brings a true fiscal salibre to the whole of the Greeks; or they either propose the rise of taxes or the creation of new ones. [[Applause]] In total, the gross tax bill they propose amounts to 704 million euros: 232 million euros that BNG wants to get out of the pockets of the Greeks, 171 million euros that PSdG-PSOE wants to get out of the pocket of the Greeks, 140 million euros that Left in Common wants to get out of the pockets of the Greeks and 161 million euros that wants to get out of the pocket of the Greeks the Mixed Group. That's your choice, that's your model. By the way, speaking of massive tax increases, it would be good if you agreed -- the counselor said in his speech -- because you don't even agree with each other. By IRPF the BNG wants to raise 22 million euros; Left in Common, 20; and the Mixed Group, 6. By heritage, the BNG, 39; the PSOE, 28; Left in Common, 52; and the Mixed Group, 9. The PSOE intends to raise 6.5 million, but the mixed 50 group. By tax of large surfaces the BNG intends to collect 61 and Left in Common, 4. Hey, there's a coherence in your proposals, impressive! Another thing that doesn't change year after year is that you want the Galician board to run without light, no water, no phone, no computers, no office equipment. And that's what would happen if we today irresponsibly supported their amendments. But what's going on? The reality is, when you rule, you don't do the same thing. You're worried about cabinet staff and you're worried about advertising and propaganda. The counselor explained it. We've reduced staff costs since you ruled now by 22%; advertising and propaganda by 60%. But I have the feeling that you practice what I say, not what I do. Because it's not to think about what the next government will do, no, no, it's to think about what the government of Pedro Sánchez has done when it arrived last summer in Moncloa: "Sánchez fires the salary cost of its ministers by 30%," "Sánchez fires counseling personnel by 25%." That's the reality: "Peter Sánchez puts his allies in the management of public enterprises." "Sánchez sets up in a month the largest high-ranking apparatus in the history of the Moncloa." That's your model, you come here to propose something and do the opposite. [[Applause]] Another very interesting exercise is to see how the left applies its own cuts to what they propose last year. Let's compare what the opposition proposes this year and what it proposes last year. The Socialist Party reduces its share of employment by EUR 41 million with respect to the alternative budget last year; in particular, it reduces EUR 2.5 million with regard to female employment and reduces EUR 12 million with regard to youth employment. They reduce by 40% their early-care budget, eliminate a million-and-a-half euro share of innovation for small trade and a 4 million-dollar share of non-contributory pensions. The Joint Left Group — Mrs. Torregrosa, I suppose that's why you're so desperate — reduces 25% of the share for female employment, from 20 million to 15 million — that's your proposal — by 50% of the share for care to homeless people, from 10 million to 5 million; reduces from 15 million to 10 million a share for the incorporation of young people into rural areas; and reduces from 18 million to 10 million a share for waste management in the boundary region. BNG seems to believe less and less in the Greek public bank. Last year they asked for 12 million euros for the Greek public bank and this year 2, or they don't need it, or they don't believe it anymore. Less innovation. Last year they asked for 22 million euros for R+D+i and this year they only asked for 12. Disappearing in respect of last year: EUR 2 million in the Plan against Labour Sinality, EUR 4 million in the Youth Employment Plan. Look, we're pleased to have and approve the most social budgets in Galicia's history. Today they are dedicated to social budgets, social policies, 7.400 million euros for next year; when you were ruling, 6,740 million euros. That's the reality, Mr. Casal. [[Mr. Casal Vidal pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Look, Mr Lago, when you were ruling, the family and the child — you were also participating in that government — EUR 106 million in 2009 — you are what you want! — this year EUR 160 million. Inclusion: when you ruled, you were 87 million euros; by 2020, you were 120 million euros. [[Applause]] In disability: you, 50 million euros; we, next year, 115 million euros. Depending on: we, 454 million euros; you, 266 million euros. You can deflate what you want, the reality is that numbers don't give you the reason. [[Applause]] Look, we've been listening to a permanent canteen every time you go up this rostrum. Greek health is fatal, fatal, totally in misery. Thousands of professionals are missing, dozens of infrastructures are missing, lots of resources are missing. And now that you have an opportunity to make an alternative budget, we assume that you will want to solve this problem of health which is fatal through the amendments. Do you know how much you raise the health budget in these alternative budgets that you propose? The Left Joint Group, with 2.5 % increase, is satisfied. BNG, increasing health funds by 1.5 % are satisfied. The Joint Group, with an increase in health budgets by 1,4 %, is satisfied. And the Socialist Group — Mr Torrido — does not talk about this again — 1.1% increase. But wasn't Greek public health so bad? As they propose in their budget such minimal rises! [[Murmurs.]] I believe that, in fact, with these amendments you amend yourself. The same is true of education, that dismantled education, that destroyed, privatized education, that education made a disaster. Now that they have a chance to make alternative budgets, man, let's make resources! How much do you raise to education? The Socialist Group, 2.7 per cent. But wasn't it so bad? BNG increases the budget in education by 0.5%. But wasn't education so bad? Wasn't it so bad? [[Murmurs.]] You'll have to come up more! The Joint Left Group, Mrs. Chao, increases the cost of education...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u83	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u84	...a 0.1%. But wasn't it so bad? [[Murmurs.]] But wasn't she so dismantled, so shattered, so privatized? Wasn't it so bad? I believe that the serious and responsible thing is to recognize that we have some budgets that guarantee Galicia's political stability and economic stability, which increase by 3%, which increase by less taxes, with more social spending, with more investments, with improvements to public employees, with less debt, with better public services.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u85	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u86	What grows is also the demagogy of an opposition which has no project, which has no ideas, which is exhausted and which looks at the clock at the end of the legislation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u87	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u88	We're gonna keep working...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u89	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u90	...for Galicia and for the Greeks from rigor, from seriousness, and knowing that budgets are a fundamental tool for designing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u91	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u92	...the Galicia of the future. I'm sorry Mr. Knight...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u93	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u94	...now you have other priorities and you don't want to participate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u95	Thank you, Mr. Tellado, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u96	...in the most important debate of the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u97	Thank you. Replica, amending groups. Joint Group, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u98	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, the truth is that I always trust more of your data than mine, because, of course, you have a back of advisers and I have only my iPad to advise me. I only have my ipad, but my ipad says that the total number of budget games we're thinking of increasing is 489 million euros and that the total amount of revenue we're thinking of increasing is exactly 489 million euros. [[Murmurs.]] I already feel like your ipad or some of your advisors sucked. [[Laughter]] Check it out. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We can put our foot on a lot of things, but usually excels don't kick, although -- I say -- one cell can always be glued around. But I just added up to my hand now and gives exactly the same amount; i mean 48 million more spending than income I don't find them anywhere. Indeed, Mr. Tellado says that a lot of demagogy is caused by little increase in total spending. Of course, there's no way. There's no way to get out. But one thing is the absolute increase and another thing is how the cost is divided. If you agree that we only increase in health care -- I don't remember the amount I was saying -- about 2%, because that's it, we'll buy the Povervisa hospital, let our accounts match that! Of course, you spend where you're going to spend, you go where you're going to spend! [[Murmurs.]] So, if you really agree with everything, let's go over game by game, see if you can do everything we do. On the other hand, the truth is, I was delighted to see the good mood in which the People's Group received my previous intervention. It seems they've already assumed with deportivity that this is their last budget as government and they take it with deportivity. The truth is, that's to thank you. So I thought to all the opposition that we can do is to take advantage of time and start articulating an alternative that really put in place a plan of national socio-economic development in Galicia that goes far beyond a Welsh agenda. That could be true for the Regionalist Cantabria Party or for Teruel There is, or even for the People's Party of Galicia, which also has a Greek agenda. We think that as a national reality we have to go much further, that we have a lot more potential, and that means that we have to be much more ambitious in the budget of the Galician Union and also in the fair claims to the state. That is why we put forward a plan - as I say - of the national economic development of Galicia that truly respects the reality of the real country, not of the country of technician that is selling us here day after day. For example, Mr. Tellado in Ferrolterra, The Bridges and so on, to see that he will tell the lords of the Bridges when he explains that there is not a single specific game to solve the problem of the energy transition in the Bridges. In this budget of In Marea that increases so little there are 12 very concrete measures, concrete! Then, in developing the mobility of the metropolitan areas, maybe sovereignty means deciding what's best, building 10 kilometers of AVE or doing a train to Ferrol that takes thirty minutes. Maybe Mr. Tellado too would like to be able to decide this. Ten kilometers of AVE cost the same as fixing the Coruña-Ferrol train so that it takes thirty minutes, passing through Pontedeume, Mine, Betanzos, Culleredo, Burgo and the University of Coruña. I mean, this is sovereignty in decisions. This is sovereignty in budgets. Also a Galician with digital networks as much as the new economy needs, so we put it in our amendments. And that Retegal is the one who assumes the development of high-speed networks, especially in rural nuclei. Because the massive subsidies that you give to Telephonica and R are what they do is to invest it where they're more interested in their business and not so much for the public interest. I won't have time, but on the same line we could talk about the naval. You should want to influence Navantia's decisions, tell him permanently, but instead you don't want to be on your board. On the one hand, they want to influence, on the other hand, they don't want to be part of the decisions. Or to set up a ship repair base in Vigo, which we also present in our amendments. Or truly develop a cultural industry towards the world which, in addition, had ensured linguistic rights. They look at other nations with strong cultures like Celtic or Nordic countries, also with limited cultural areas, but which, thanks to a country decision, have achieved new ways of reaching people all over the world by developing very powerful cultural industries. For example, more fishing research into the problems that the Brexit will bring... and a lot more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u99	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u100	As far as the counselor was concerned that we did not justify, of course! this is a numerical proposal for ups and downs, we did not come to develop the laws that would bear them. But we would be delighted - if you accept it, that you never accept it - to debate in this Parliament how to support these tax increases. I assure you that we could support all those amounts that we have raised in them. Let us debate it, because every time we bring a law like, for example, the sugar tax, you've prevented it from being debated. So let us discuss all these proposals, you'll see how we can justify them! Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u101	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u102	Today Mr Tellado was unable to come to this debate by the Economic, Employment and Industry Councillor, but there is already Mr Tellado to talk to us about rigour. I was almost missing you, Mr. Tellado. But to rigour yours, to rigour yours, that in order to dismantle the alternatives that presented the opposition had to accumulate all the tax proposals, accumulate them! They're not accumulable, Mr Tellado, they're alternatives. But anyway, you... Don't worry, don't worry, when we have to shorten them, we'll shorten them, so don't worry! [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] In any case, I see you worried because we've been spending little money from BNG to the Greek public bank. Don't worry, if you want, we've got a deal. In any case, on an alternative political line, because we already know what happens when we give public money to the bank when you are, we know what happens! Of course, logically, 2 million next to 65,000 million euros seems small. [[Applause]] It seems so little to you that now they want to give money to the bank, too, so that we pay the cashiers of those banking entities who shut people off from all over the country. Anyway. Counsellor, you have basically come to repeat the mantra of all debates: that we do not know, that we do not understand it as a lack of will... Home, Mr. Martínez!, in the matter of legislation, how many amendments to the opposition have accepted? How many? I, if I don't remember bad, if I wasn't away at some point, zero, zero! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Zero to all, which has its meaning, but zero also in partial amendments. Look, throughout the legislation -- because Mr. Tellado also talked about drips -- they accepted a partial amendment from their own group to put arrangements to a Burela coke in which it rained and now it rains back inside. So, imagine that we have hope that they can accept some amendment if we do them well! And I've already told you that some year we're going to try and put an amendment to a Bic boli. Or, if not, since Mr. Santalices has given us an eco-friendly bottle to fill the water, I'm sure if we make an amendment to propose that we buy a few recyclable water bottles to the shopkeepers, or so on! They'd like to apologize because it's a political debate in the end. It's not about the budgetary technique. The problem is not the costs that we have to bear, the problem is not the programmes we have to deal with, the problem is that there is indeed an alternative political model, Mr Martínez. So don't come here rhetorically about why we don't accept the amendments, because it's not that we don't do our job well, Mr. Martínez, there are important differences. The same in the tax system. Man, I'll make you a proposal too. If you're worried about it, let's do little on how we would develop those taxes, give us fifty-one minutes each like you! Five taxes we create from BNG, ten minutes each, because maybe we explain it a little better, but of course, that's not the excuse. In any case, it also draws attention to the same excuses as ever, it can repeat them over and over again, but that's not why it's going to be true. Like the question of potential cabinet staff. We spent a lot, we spent a lot, you've saved a lot... this is like the story that came to the Government of Galician Union to end the chiringuits. So much they repeated it, so much so that they repeated it ten years that they gave the Board of Auditors time to make a report and say that this was not only ridiculous, 17 million euros saved - they spent more now on San Caetano reform - but it was not significant and even introduced irregularities in the remuneration of that staff. That was the fake thinning of chiringuits that you came to do. By the way, Mr. Feijóo said they were going to save 90 million and, in the end, it was not even 17. Anyway. I wanted to take advantage of this last turn to raise some question which in my first intervention did not give me time to develop too much. We also make alternative proposals in the cultural field. Indeed, Mr. Martínez, I don't know as a responsible government official that the latest statistics of the Galego Institute of Statistics tell us that almost one in four young Greek boys between the ages of 5 and 14 can barely speak German come here and assume a budget that has an accumulated cut of more than 60% in terms of linguistic normalization. But don't you realize that they've made that principle of the right to ignorance of the Greek language that they defended with the Gallagophobic organizations since 2008 out of electoral interest? That's your result, and you draw attention here to brag about it. [[Applause]] In any case, we insist that in our amendment we have proposals to safeguard the public services of the cuts that you have applied. And it's not true that it's enough what they're doing. And for example, the reinforcement plan we propose for primary care, Mr. Martínez. You know that there's not a week, just a week ago, where there's no protests in primary care centers all over the country, where hospital care isn't the same, and that's for some reason. And doctors and doctors, nurses, nurses...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u103	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u104	...don't evaporate, if you run away from your work policy, and that has responsibilities, and our amendments have alternatives. As there are also amendments to shield public education, there are also amendments to serve the service of the dependency from the public authorities in Greece and not deepening on that line of privatization which also condemned the Board of Auditors in this last report, warning that more than 65% of the squares in this country are private. That, of course, is not our model. You can use it as a budget technique, but the question is a political alternative in the defence of public services, the productive sectors and this country, or an alternative that only obeys neoliberalism and centralism. Of course, we have it clear and we will continue to defend this alternative. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Joint Left Group, Mrs. Torregrosa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u106	Thank you very much. Counsellor, Mr. Tellado, we are insisting that your model is wrong. As much as they insist on saying they do it well, the situation we think is at the limit. It wasn't a question of comparing economic valuations to different amendments, which is clear that all groups have a clear vision, then economic valuation can vary, but what doesn't change, clearly, is that you're on one side and we're on another with regard to social rights, people's rights and who is a priority. You say you don't want to add taxes. Okay, but he also refuses to collect taxes. I mean, are the inheritances of a million euros a priority collective? We believe not, we think not, that they are acting in favour of a minority that is already an overprivileged minority. We believe that a person who can inherit from two bands 2 million euros doesn't need help at a time when we have real cuts in the area, for example, of housing policies of 66.8%, right?; some Voitre funds that are already the largest Greek real estate, with 2,500 assets; 300,000 empty dwellings; 14,000 people on a waiting list waiting for a public housing; we have more denials for rent default than mortgages. This for us is a priority collective, so we believe that what is there is a profound divergence of political priorities between citizenship and the privileged. We also believe that you should defend the housing in this case of what we're talking about. It seems to us that it is a constitutional right to have access to a decent housing and that the Council of Galicia, and you as the last responsible, should consider it this way and so should they defend it. And like that, the whole set of measures that, by chance, I think the groups on the left are defending. Because what we defend is not so strange, it's a plan against energy poverty, when we're paying this year, in our country, the highest energy tariff in the state. And, of course, we don't have to worry either. It just seems like a priority. A plan of industrial reactivation that we think is not only good for workers and workers, but also for the whole set of citizenship, for taxes, for what will have an impact on Galicia's growth. In his ten years of government, 22,500 jobs were destroyed. From the policies, for example, of the Council of Economics, Employment and Industry, the cuts which are reduced with respect to 2019, in nominal terms, are industrial policies and business development policies, so they have no problem in cutting off. The resources for tourism are greater than those for all industrial policies: 73.8 million, compared to 58.6 million; 15 million more for tourism than for industry as a whole, 25% more. What other measures do we think are priority, much more, than these kinds of cuts in taxes for the rich? Well, for example, a plan for the ecological transition. We've been living in a climate emergency, and until recently you denied that there was climate change; now you don't deny it, but there's absolute inaction on your part. In Galicia we already know who does not pay, nor are we interested in gathering there. Those who pollute do business in Galicia. Contaminated electrics, which are full of PP ex-directors, of course, make that already have a certain political trend. Like the crisis and the ecological transition, we speak of housing and we talk about the recovery of the rural environment, which does not matter to them either; of the structural problems that disrupt their development, the management of the territory, the empowerment of a public knowledge system and the creation of instruments that balance the commercial chain, avoiding abuses against the primary sector, which is basic in our country; to enhance horticulture and fruit growing, high value crops added, is also not a priority sector. I mean, it's not a question they're really criticizing, because they have nothing else to do, if we say 5 or 25 in each game. What they have to value is that they are absolutely closed to dialogue, they are closed to accepting initiatives other than those of you. As has already been said here, they don't accept anything but they don't have their own solutions either. Then, truly, the path that remains with you is very sad, and I insist, Mr. Tellado, I am very discouraged, very discouraged by this crisis that comes up while you are here. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Torregrosa. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u108	Good afternoon again. To be the most important debate of the year, I don't see Mr. President of the Board, and I should be there. I can't even see the Economics Councilman, who didn't see that he was very attentive to the debate either. [[Applause]] And it's true... I don't know if there's one... in the end you didn't... I was afraid that the saddle would be enforceable and that, like a bass, another climb, I don't know. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Anything can happen. [[Laughter]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Tellado, I really do not ask you to deflate, for that we have the guard deflator, it's not necessary. In any case, we propose health increases of 110 million, and over approximately 4,000, the increase exceeds two and a half percent. I say that to make it clear, it exceeds two and a half percent. Just like in education. You'd think it's a little bit, but, no doubt, it would be a significant change about what you're proposing in the budget, a very significant change: doubling, about, the amounts that are available to new managers in order to do things. Well, if that doesn't seem like it, the truth is I had to suspend Galician board all these years, and you came here to defend your budgets. So, each with his own responsibilities. It's true that you had a lot of foresight about what was going to happen in the ranks on the left, but what wasn't expected were the election battalions followed by your party throughout 2019. That's the only thing he couldn't predict. [[Applause]] And, of course, the new Government in Spain may have difficulties, but a government married to Abascal, which is the only alternative government, if done, would mean that we need to review the autonomic system, load the autonomic system; that we have to review the policies of gender equality and violence, and so on. Yeah, yeah... yeah, yeah, yeah. [[Murmurs.]] Anyway, the Greek would be persecuted and some parties in this House would have to... I don't know if they'd have a chance to defend their ideas. That's what their partners are proposing, their real partners, today, in some autonomous communities. So sometimes it's better to have a little more modesty. [[Murmurs.]] Counsellor, it's understandable to see how you defend your tax reduction — I think I've taken well — for middle and low incomes. What we're proposing is to raise the IRPF from 47,600 euros; neither the average salary, nor the average income, nor the median income, are quite far from this. And what you're proposing this year is to raise the deduction of succession tax and donations from 400,000 to 1,000,000 euros, and you're talking about average and low income. No, no, don't be wrong. You are raising tax exemptions to 1% of the population, and we are proposing that there be a greater contribution from a sector of society that has more economic resources and more wealth in order to contribute to the support of the welfare state. That's the difference, Counselor, don't be mistaken for that! Look, we can be a bit incoherent, but if you make the global account of what we're taking away and what we're going up, you'll see perfectly how there's a very substantial increase in infrastructure spending and you'll see perfectly how there's a very substantial increase in public housing. And of course, if budgets change one year in relation to another, it's also normal for amendments to change, among other things, because there's news. The main one you have contributed to popularize it, and rightly so. There's an industrial problem: there's problems in Barreras, there's problems in Isowat, there's problems in many parts of Galicia, there's problems in the district of the Bridges. The odd thing is, after that speech, let's see the budget document and say where are those changes transferred to the political action of the Galician Union with budgetary support? Well, in our amendments, they are. If you're disturbed by a couple of headings that we propose, we're willing to remove those headings if you support the rest of what's collected in our cross-sectional amendment, and there's even one more, but it's not that. As was said before, there is a problem of political philosophy and you are not in favour of strengthening self-government and meeting the needs of citizens, more decisively in basic services, industrial crisis, employment and equality. By the way, we also — and you have not mentioned — set out to strengthen our commitment to gender-based violence and to the fulfilment of the Historical Memory Act, as that is also part of our political proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u109	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Close the debate, Consecutor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u110	Thank you again, Mr. President, before you finish. On these last questions. It is not possible that being here in such an intense and complex debate as we have, on a day like today, where we have to intervene so many times, if we can talk about everything, obviously, there are always issues left. Please don't deduce from my words or my silences a situation of merit or demerit, but rather from a more or less argumentated structure of themes. Obviously, Mrs. Presas, if I add up all my silences, neither the fifty minutes I spent on any of my interventions would come to me. Interestingly, if we add up all the opposition groups, they're a lot more than the one that talks to them, right? But let's go aside. Mr. Casal, the other day, Friday, among other things, I also had to watch the closing of a few days. The motto was "Technology and talent." They're getting to know me, and I don't think I'm smart, either, I think the order is the other way around: talent and technology. I'm telling you this because the Excels are never wrong, they're wrong who handles them. I also recognize that even my technicians — as I said — that huge cohort of staff I have in my office — are certain that they may also be wrong. We honestly believe, and we can contrast it, who has the mistake in sum. The sum, of course, is a relatively basic operation, but there can also be errors of one or another. What I'm not willing to take on is the criterion you always said, because I'm sure we accept almost 100 percent of what you just said. The AVE to Ferrol. The AVE to Ferrol, as a mobility problem... No, no... the option by other means of transport... I'm sure this one who speaks to you as a representative of the Government coincides with 100 percent. What I can't assume is that I take us for fools, because that's a state competition. And as you've spoken here throughout the morning, there's a first derivative in a number of subjects, such as the industrial theme, which is said to be derived, is state. Why don't we agree on a pattern of normality — that we are all older — and how did you set the example of AVE or another type of nearby railway, do it also for industrial or any other topic? And, of course, Mrs Presas, this is the second time you referred to cashiers as a gift to financial institutions. It's just not to understand what this is about. It's from the ease to the citizens so that, from what's theirs, they can normally arrange. It's something you know very little, which is a competition system. [[Murmurs.]] Get them involved, and then you'll get out who's better. It's something incredible, really, what you have to hear. And, of course, we'll be very careful, really -- if we're so thin -- and when you put water amendments on the Fairy officials, I hope you take into account that there aren't only officials, that there are public employees, and not only in Fairy. We'll really be very careful about that and we'll accept it, don't worry the least. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Primary schools. The whole primary issue, those five thousand missing squares and everything else, is incredible. Everything is better, truly, but is anyone in the camera able to say something that approaches all over Spain, from an autonomic perspective, to what has just been approved and to what has just been broadened with the experts' opinion? There is no example at national level. That means what is the predisposition of this government to face; and then, depending on the availability we have, to go to completion. But there is no example at national level that can be likened to the effort being made by the Galego Health Service Motu proprio and also accompanied by the opinion of experts. Mr. Leicega, as well as goodbye. I told you this morning, I can agree with you on the theme of infrastructure, you can always do more. What I'm very concerned about is that more infrastructure is being claimed to the Board, and then less bad was that there was an unborn budget at the state level, where 40% of the capital expenditure was being dropped to this autonomous community. It's amazing, amazing! I really can't believe it. [[Applause]] I can't believe it and even intellectually subtle myself, because you know I've been fond of you for 40 years, too, Mr. Lago. You, too. [[Laughter]] We have concluded this debate with an intense, intense, intense whole. It is impossible to cover everything along the way, as is the case with the current procedure — welcome, Mr. Knight — the most important of the year in economic and social matters. [[Murmurs.]] Again, like the voices of the morning, I want to express my sincere thanks for the interventions of the different voices in the afternoon. Each of us, from our perspective, we defend the model, sometimes antithetic, and the different points of view are logical. I'm also sure we've learned from the exhibitions and suggestions that each one of us makes. We really tried. The opinions are clear. I wish the resources were always more to be able to include some amendments, but in this life we all have to prioritize, and after listening to all the voices, I still humbly think that we have in the House the best possible budget for the present moment. Our model as the German Government, which I have tried to expose both in the morning and now in the evening, is to consolidate that healthy growth that is manifesting itself in our autonomous community. A model that has allowed us to have the best evolution in controlling deficit and public debt, to the point of taking a couple of years in technical fiscal consolidation. A model that seeks to strengthen social spending each year. By 2020, with more resources than ever in the history of Galicia and with a significant increase in troops to have more and more high-quality public services. A model that favors as much investment as possible each exercise. Comparative data confirms that Galicia has been leading the investor effort for years. A model that allows taxes to continue to be lowered every year, in contrast to the opposition, all of which is different but with something in common: the intention to raise hundreds of millions of euros each year to the Greeks. A model that portrays our financial autonomy and consequently self-government, which allows us to lead the agile payment to our suppliers. A model that thinks of the year 2020 but which also plans for the next decade. For what? To make it the best of our story. I insist that the discrepancies in the general budget policy model are logical, but I hope that we can all work on agreeing on possible improvements to the final budget text, to all of us already, from the first of January 2020, with the best budgets for all Greeks and Greeks. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Vote for Group II amendments Voting of amendments amending the overall accounts of budgets and transfers of appropriations between sections
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u111	Thank you, Counselor. We shall then proceed to vote. Close the doors, please. In particular, we are voting on the amendments discussed in Group II. We are going to do this in an inclusive way by a parliamentary group, both those that change the overall content of budgets and those that transfer credits between sections. We vote. Cumulative vote on all amendments to Group II, which amend the overall budget content and transfer appropriations between sections. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u112	Rejected the amendments to the whole and fixed the overall amount of expenditure and income statements, the agreement on this bill will be made to the Committee on Economic, Business and Budgets to continue its processing of compliance with the provisions of Article 114(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the House. This closes here the debate of the entire draft budget law of the Autonomous Community by 2020 but does not end the plenary, because unfortunately — but unfortunately not — we must continue and we will spend forty-two minutes on the schedule. Then, as long as they can adapt a little to the schedule, it would be convenient for them to do so. Open the doors, please. Full discussion of the draft law on tax and administrative measures
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u113	We continue with the second point. Amendments have been tabled to the whole of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Joint Parliamentary Group of the Left and the Socialist Group. For the presentation of the bill, the councillor of Fairy has the word for word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u114	Thank you very much again, President. Good afternoon. For the sixth time, ladies and gentlemen, I have taken part in the plenary session to present the Tax and Administrative Measures Bill by 2020, a rule that complements the Budget Bill by 2020 on what we have just discussed. Budgets require, for their full application, the adoption of various measures, of a purely executive nature and of a normative nature, which by their nature must adopt a range of laws and which, as the Constitutional Court has specified, should not be incorporated into the annual laws of general budgets, but into specific laws. Thus, the doctrinal debate on the nature of so-called accompaniment laws was resolved by the Constitutional Court, which set them up as ordinary laws, whose content is fully protected by the freedom of normative configuration enjoyed by the legislator, and which allows for a better and more effective execution of the Government's program in different areas of its action. From this perspective, the objective is the usual: to achieve greater efficiency and efficiency in a set of measures from different areas of activity which, with a vocation of permanence over time, contribute to the achievement of certain multi-year guidance goals pursued by the Autonomous Community through budgetary execution. Among the measures included in this bill, I would like to point out — and not for a purely extensive purpose — that: virtually eliminating the tax on succession; facilitating succession in family businesses; promoting the acquisition of housing [...] with Spain's lowest tax; implementing a green deduction to promote energy efficiency in homes; creating 22 new staff scales to make effective the voluntary functioning of fixed workers; facilitating the knowledge and control of the activity developed by tourist housing; or shielding the limitation of the number of authorisations and facilities of playrooms, bingo rooms and betting shops. As for the structure of the law, we're talking about it being divided into two titles: the first on tax measures and the second on administrative measures. Title I, relating to tax measures, is divided into two chapters. Chapter I introduces measures in respect of assigned taxes. As far as IRPF is concerned, there are several changes in the deduction of the inter-autonomic quota to achieve three objectives: to promote energy efficiency, to encourage high-level athletes and to facilitate the formation of labour and cooperative societies. For that, we include a new green deduction, which boosts up to 15% of housing improvements, up to 9,000 euros, to improve energy efficiency, such as changing boilers or windows. In this way, we bonus improvements that allow energy category to ascend, i. e. a letter on the distinctive label. In total, the Greek citizens will receive up to EUR 1,350, plus 150 to cover the cost of issuing the efficiency certificate. A deduction also for high-level sports bags perceived in the autonomous community, so that they won't be reduced by their taxation in the IRPF. And a third, to suppress the maximum limit of participation in a society in the supposed labor and cooperative societies composed of only two social persons. As far as succession and prayer tax is concerned, we have increased the reduction from EUR 400,000 to EUR 1 million per heir, excluding habitual housing, for direct relatives. The goal is to continue the agenda that we started in 2016 to maintain the family heritage and the economic capacity of families. Thus, we continue to advance in practice the abolition of this tax for people who receive an inheritance from a direct relative, an issue in which we were pioneers and later joined other autonomous communities. Therefore, from 1 January 2020 99.9 % of the Greeks will not pay inheritance taxes between direct relatives. In addition, the reductions are amended to acquire goods and rights affected by economic activity and participation in entities to encourage family businesses that remain within the family sphere from generation to generation, strengthening the development of the business fabric of family origin. As far as property transmission and documented legal acts are concerned, the aim is to continue to promote the acquisition of housing and to promote settlement in sparsely populated areas. By 2020 we have strengthened and complemented this rate of taxes for the ZPPs, which is 94% of the territory, by two ways. By lowering two other points the tax on heritage transmissions, from 7% to 5%, with income and heritage limits, to buy usual in ZPP. With this downside, buying a house in the Italian countryside will have the lowest tax in Spain. And also lowering four points the property tax, from 10% to 6%, for the rest of ZPP's housing purchase. In addition to maintaining the elimination of taxes for children under 36 years of age, numerous families and persons with disabilities. For its part, chapter II, on own taxes, is composed of three precepts. The first one, on charges. It provides, on the one hand, for the updating of the rates of fixed content rates and for the introduction of several amendments to the Tax, Price and Exam Law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. The regulation of the water canon and the greening coefficient is also optimized to fix a tariff system that avoids any known malfunctions in practice in the form of a pollutant load. Thus, a special kind of general recording will be added to the type of general recording depending on this pollutant load. In addition, it provides for measures to facilitate the collection of amounts of water canon and forecasts on the use of electronic means. Finally, we have modified the regulation of environmental damage tax caused by certain uses and uses of encouraged water, to simplify management and that there is a correct allocation of the tax burden on the producer of the damage to the medium. The goal is to enforce the principle of who pollutes, pays; thus fulfill the extra tax purpose and internalize the cost that the taxpayer externalizes to society. Ladies and gentlemen, so far in relation to tax measures. As for Title II, of administrative measures in the field of public employment, amendments are introduced to the Public Employment Act to create several scales and specialties of bodies and professional groupings of staff members of the General Administration, as well as the bodies of the Special Administration. In total, we anticipate the creation of 22 staff scales, and this process of creating new scales is produced by the process of operationalization that we have agreed with the trade unions on the basis of the Social Agreement on Public Employment. Today, over 95% of the employees have applied for their official transformation. Logically, we need to update these scales in order to reach the end of this process. In the field of the environment and territory, we have amended the Hunting Act, to promote the practice of hunting over the boar and to increase the effectiveness in the control of its populations. The goal is to allow hunting of this species with modalities that are commonly used for smaller hunting and which contribute to increasing the effectiveness of its cinematic use. This is considered a necessary and complementary measure to the rest of the Jabaril Action Plan, due to the problems currently generating this species; among them are substantial damage to crops, traffic accidents, disruption in anthropized areas and the health risk arising from the presence of African swine fever in Europe. On the other hand, we amend the Landscape Protection Act to expand the scope of the landscape action plans. On the one hand, we have amended the Law on the Prevention and Defence of Forest Fires to strengthen cooperation between administrations and enhance active employment policies, especially those linked to vocational training and practice programmes, as well as to establish a public biomass management system at a legal level. In addition, it amends the Land Mobility Act, to promote land mobilization through the Model Villages program, to seek the recovery of economic and social activity from these nuclei, with the objective of allowing their demographic recovery and improvement in the quality of life of their population, while we anticipate the fires by creating a natural fire against them. These model village projects will be carried out in areas of abandonment and infra-use, with the main aim of encouraging the return to production of agroforestry areas with good productive capacity that have reached with the passage of time stages of abandonment and infra-use. In terms of infrastructure and mobility, changes are also introduced to the rules governing the rate of road regulations, and as for the Law on the Public Transport of Persons in Tourism Vehicles, the assumptions are laid down in which taxi service rates will have the maximum character and to provide for the regime applicable in these cases, in order to provide greater flexibility for the exercise of the activity, while the rights of users are guaranteed. This flexibility of tariffs, agreed with the sector, will help promote user mobility and achieve greater balance with VTC vehicles. The Road Law includes two amendments: one, concerning the simplification of studies, projects and works; and another, the introduction of the declaration responsible for determining the works and introducing criteria for flexibility, simplicity and efficiency. In the area of social policy, in order to promote demography and promote the reconciliation and support of the Greek families, a provision is added to the Social Services Act to implement freeness in children's schools from 0 to 3 years from the second child, regardless of the age of the first child. This cent bonus will also apply in the case of squares contracted by the competent counsellor for social services in private-owned children's schools. In this case, the Autonomous Administration shall assume payment of the amounts that are appropriate to the family unit. In the area of economic, employment and industry, the Cooperatives Act is amended to allow an associated labour cooperative to hire people at risk of exclusion, thereby favouring a gradual and socio-laborative insertion of these groups. Similarly, in the Internal Trade Act, subjects who may apply for an autonomous commercial authorisation may be extended in the case of individual commercial arrangements, thereby facilitating access to commercial activity. In addition, the Research and Innovation Promotion Act is amended to set the minimum content of the Greek plans in R+D+i. In the field of culture and tourism there are two objectives. On the one hand, a better sign of Santiago's roads, in collaboration with local administrations; thus, acts related to the signage, conservation and maintenance promoted by the Autonomic Administration will be subject to municipal control through prior communication. In all cases it will be necessary to authorize the competent body in the field of cultural heritage, prior to the binding report of the instrumental public body with competences in the field of tourism. On the other hand, measures are introduced to facilitate the knowledge and control of the activity developed by tourist dwellings. And for this purpose, the Tourism Act, to limit the activity of illegal housing, must include the registration number of the Galician Tourism Agency in any advertising or promotion. In addition, owners or marketers are required to provide the Occupational Data to the Tourism Agency on a monthly basis. With regard to health care, the Health Act is amended to introduce a new regulatory provision of an integrated system of information and clinical research that covers all health centres that make up the Public Health System, thus maximizing the synergies of clinical research and attracting innovative therapies in early stages of development. With regard to education, provision is drawn to ensure the continuity of the provision of the school transport service. We have made this decision in the event that, at the expiry of the existing ones, no new contract has been formalised which guarantees the continuity of the benefit. We also anticipate an amendment to the University System Law, to collect the extension of the funding plan until the approval and start of the effects of the new plan, in order to ensure the normal functioning of universities. In an additional provision, the limitation in the number of permits for the installation of playrooms, bingo rooms and betting shops, due to the social concern that generates this sector and the increase in cases of ludopathy. In this way, restrictions on the opening of new game halls are extended, waiting for the new game law being drafted, trying to achieve maximum consensus. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already reiterated the main measures included in this bill, which aim to virtually eliminate the tax on succession, facilitate the succession of family businesses, promote the acquisition of housing in the few populated areas (with Spain's lowest taxation), implement a green deduction to promote the energy efficiency of homes, enable twenty-two new staff scales to carry out the operation, facilitate the knowledge and control of the activities of tourist dwellings or shield the number of permits of playroom facilities, bingo rooms and betting shops. Thank you very much for this sixth time you've heard me speak in this parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u115	Thank you very much, Counselor. In the defence of amendments to the whole and position of the bill, you have the floor, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u116	Well, welcome to this gallery for the sixth time. We are going to try not to waste time, which is already late, but we really have to explain our amendment of our entire amendment to this Law of tax and administrative measures, and the first thing we will try not to waste time, but we will try not to waste time, which is already late, but we really have to explain our amendment of our amendment completely to this Law of tax and administrative measures, and the first thing we must try not to say is that the Joint Union and the People's Party, systematically — and you have done it again today, but we have to explain our amendment of multiple laws without following the ordinary parliamentary debate procedure for legal and administrative drafts, and the first thing we have to say is that the Constitutional Court of Constitutional Court has indeed evaluated this type of accompanying laws, with a particular vote on a particular vote against, as a mechanism to favour the execution of the Government plan drawn up in budgets today, but, but, however this type of law, which is an example of this, to abuse of amendments in the legal order that nothing, it has nothing, has to do with budgets, nothing to do you have to do you have to have to do it, as you have to have to have to have to have the extent it, as you have to be stated; it, you have stated, as you, as you have to have stated, as you, to have done, to have done to have the Law, as you have done, to have to have to have done to have the Law, as you, to have done to have the type, as you have the type, as you have done to have done to have done to have the Law, as you have done to have the type, to have the Law, as you have done in law, as you have done, and has has has has has has to have done to have the Law, as you have the type, and has has has has has has has has has to, and have the Law, that you have the Law, as you have done, and have done in, and have the Law, as you have done in, and have the Law, that you have the type, that you have done, that you have the type, which which which which which which which which which which which which which which which you have the Law, that you have done, that you have the Law, that you have the Law, which you have done, and has has has has has has has has So this is the formula that systematically opts for the PP governments of the Union. We have here a regulatory overflow, an accelerated, insurmountable procedure, to debate the numerous laws that are not related to budgets being debated here today, which is precisely when this Budget Law is being discussed simultaneously. We believe it is an exercise of a lack of will for dialogue and debate with the plurality of legislative power, and not only because the abuse of this procedure also undermines the mechanisms of high counseling, the institutions of high counseling of the Autonomous Community, its duty to pronounce. This year, if I haven't said anything wrong, I propose the amendment of twenty-seven laws, three of them no less than adopted this year 2019, in addition to decrees and other regulations, most — as I say — without any relation to the budgetary rule, and this contrasts with the lack of normative progress in laws that the Board itself has undertaken to push, one of them is the Law of the Game; precisely for this reason certain measures are extended, because the Law of the Game is not yet promoted. Going to tax measures, with some of the tax changes — we take it all day today — from 2020 to 2020, we consolidate their commitment for fiscal inequality: cuts below and benefits upwards, and, as we have already said — and I will not repeat the argument — with social, educational and health needs not covered, we do not understand, we do not share and we reject absolutely the tax gifts to whom most of us have. I am not going to stop doing that social X-ray that has already been exposed this morning perfectly by our group, but with this overview the Government of the Union declines its obligations, reducing — because this is a constant in recent years — the weight of the public sector in the whole economy and with these tax advantages to which it has the most. You set the goal: to eliminate in practice the tax of succession; that's what happens with that deduction up to the inheritances of 1,000,000 euros. But let's put it in context. Since 2014, with regard to this succession tax, there are already accumulated tax benefits of EUR 717 million, which we can contrast with the budget allocated this year to the Social Policy Council, which is practically the same, and it is the funds that are used for the whole Risga system, which is totally insufficient for the elderly's homes, for the children's schools. I mean, there's unmet needs, there's a ratio of higher residences below the average of the state, less than recommended by WHO, but there's still this tax benefit. Those 717 million euros accumulated since 2014 could actually drive a network of children's schools from 0 to 3 years old and not put these Christmas patches to which I will then refer. It is therefore necessary to review, in our view, the tax benefit policy, especially those taxes that affect those who have the most. To review also the gifts in succession and heritage that have been made in these years and that in these recent budgets are worth 20 million euros. But, of course, we are, of course, talking about different models. We also bet on reviewing the increase from the tax revenue of the Union's own, on the basis of the principle of fiscal justice, beginning with recovering the tax rates of the assets tax of 2018, which had been reduced by 20%, which reduced the collection by 11%, and reverse the changes made in the inheritance tax, because, if it did not arrive with that gift granted to the highest assets in 2018, we have a new tax gift, leaving tax exemptions, as has already been said, those fortunes of up to 1,000,000 euros per descendant, fearing to make this bet fair, equipping the inheritances of 1,000,000 euros to others far below. And what is the argument to apply these types of policies? That tax drop relates to investment incentive, so that our companies do not leave, especially Portugal. But what's going on? That the tax policy of the Union, with these reductions, has not achieved any of its objectives. Investments are practically zero, foreign investment practically non-existent, and new companies prefer Portugal, just like the expanded Greek companies. This also has to do with something deeper, which is that the economy is not just about fiscal policy, of course. Just like rural tax cuts, they don't get to dynamize the rural economy. Of course, they have strategic policies of territorial rebalancing, public services, promotion of productive sectors. The economy is something more than fiscal policy. But, of course, we have a different fiscal policy and a different economic conception. By going to administrative measures, I said, three hundred laws are changed. And with that amendment to the Public Employment Act, in some changes, in the creation of these scales, it is reiterated in non-specialization for the prevention and care of our natural resources and fights fires. No titrations are specified on certain fundamental issues for the prevention and care of our natural resources. Then, too, Junta persists in not recognizing the specialty of social education; it has also shown it in the call for public job supply, calling these places for educators where different profiles can be presented, when the defined functions are those of social education, a profession that is already recognized. And it's also persisting in the non-definition of Social Work. In both cases they are professions related to social services and they involve legal insecurity and they do not favor professionalization in our public social services system. The Law of the Board of Auditors, the Law of Galicia's Financial and Budget Scheme, the Law of Landscape Protection, which is also amended to reduce the obligations of the Board to establish landscape action plans in protected areas and leaves as a force the elaboration of these plans of action in other areas. Hunting you. You persist in insisting that the solution to the barbarian problem is hunting and do not apply, as has already been discussed here, structural measures that go beyond a hunt that, in addition, is a system that has started and that may endanger the population. You give only Galicia. Among other things — you didn't mention it — allows promoters to deliver money instead of land as a concession to build, when the law establishes it. It's a policy that suits the big builders. Law of rehabilitation and urban regeneration and renewal of Galicia. I don't know if I wasn't paying attention, but you didn't just quote this amendment, and the case is that a law passed this same year to correct the harmful aspects of it and you change it preventively to avoid an appeal by the Constitutional Court. It should be remembered here that this law was passed without requesting a report from the Galician Council of Culture. At the request of the Spanish Committee of Icomos, the Galician Council for Culture prepared a report by itself, and warns you how this rule calls into question heritage protection. And, in fact, one of the articles that is deleted in this Accompanying Act — between quotes — is the fact that special urban renewal plans could exclude in historical sets protected the maintenance criterion of urban plots of alignments and cracks. It was one of the most harmful aspects of a law on which, of course, we will continue to maintain that it deprotects the historical helmets of the Greek cities. And it amends the Law of Natural Heritage and Biodiversity, a law passed this year as well. And it also reduces environmental damage repair obligations, always for the benefit of large companies. It actually changes the Fire Prevention and Defense Act, but we are, two years after the severe wave of autumn fires, still normativeizing some measures regarding the management of biomass and the prevention of fires with express processing, but in addition, measures that in many cases already had to be implemented before that wave of fires, simply by complying with the relevant laws. And the Land Mobility Act, which is modified to regulate model villages, to regulate also those secondary ranges of biomass protection. The wording does not specifically meet the criteria for environmental sustainability. These villages can be perfectly created model for the interests of large companies. They do not — let us say — establish a regulation that favours the preservation of the environment. That's not specifically quoted. Amendment of the Law of Public Transport, of the Law of Roads — I told you thirteen changes in that law, you said two, and it is true that there are some similar articles that refer to it — Galician ports. Social services. The sanctioning regime is changed, which is true, that it's a section that has become less specific in the law and that it's one of the issues that needs a review, but we understand that it's not the way to propose a silent modification through this kind of law. And teaching 0-3. It is taken advantage of to add the change that allows freeness in children's schools for the second or next daughter, who, as I said, is a birth control measure, socially unfair, does not take into account income. It's unequal because families with a low-income child won't enjoy a freeness to which if they can access families with more income than they have two or more children. We understand that it is necessary to advance in the universalization of the child-school care service from 0 to 3 years, but not for reasons of demographic impulse, not for those reasons, but for reasons of conciliation, of social equity — through access to education improves school performance with an early education — and knowing that this measure does not solve the serious deficit of necessary conciliation measures in that first year of life for children and children. Maternity permits must be raised urgently — they are absolutely insufficient — and paternity permits must be gradually matched. Finally, a rationalization of working hours is needed. But, of course, these kinds of Christmas measures have not proved their effectiveness in any state. And, of course, what we propose is socially just measures, not natalist measures. And we continue with changes in decrees regarding dependency, which is to recognize the failure to comply with the deadlines of the Personal Self-Government Act. Recognizes the Board itself that you are unable to meet the deadlines set for the award of an valuation service and then when you can access a service. And with the amendment of article 25 of the decree, priority is now given to the allocation of squares in centres to still young people with functional diversity older than 21 years old, which is showing a lack of specific care resources. It is continuing to bet on the integration of people with functional diversity into larger centres, abundant in this mix of profiles in residences, and what it is necessary to create specific squares, such as, for example, in the centers of attention to functional diversity — this Ourense CAP with which we carry all the legislation and that I'm not yet able to say whether it's going to be of public management — or, for example, bet on the model of personal assistant. The decree governing the registration, authorisation, accreditation and inspection of social services is also amended. And one of the measures is also to offer day-to-day care because of family situations to those who don't have access to a residence. What is being recognized is that for people who have assigned this remedy as a priority of residence, there are not enough places of attention in public residences throughout the territory. The Social Inclusion Act is amended to make risk criteria more restrictive. It was already a benefit which the affected social groups, the people in exclusion, considered to be very bureaucratic. For now, an amendment that requires greater access to the benefit is included, because it obliges the inclusion agreement to be signed on a pre-resolved basis. And they change another series of laws -- I'm going to skip them because I don't have time, but as for the amendment of the Galician University System Law, it seems they're giving themselves up to give up to agreeing to a new plan of funding for the Greek university system, since the current year ends next year and a new one needs to be negotiated. But they're actually giving their inability to dialogue with public universities and disinteresting them, as shown in these budgets, to increase funds. Of course, we hope that whoever negotiates this new plan will be a new government. And it's over. I will continue with the next intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u117	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. On behalf of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u118	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. I think I kept saying it, but, no, not really. I believe that the House and the Government, all the political forces, know and know what the opinion of the Galician Nationalist Block is about the use, and above all about the abuse, that the People's Party makes year by year of the accompanying laws. We say it every year in every budgetary debate, repeat it every year, and we will repeat it as often as necessary. From our group, we strongly oppose the instrumentalization of this procedure to introduce legal reforms that have nothing to do with budgets, nothing!, and then we're going to blow up some of them for the most part. And we reject it because it involves an express, accelerated procedure, as it was said, which robs the necessary political and social debate, which elucidates reports that would be necessary to pursue a process of ordinary reform and even generates a lot of legal insecurity — those who boast of stability — because we do not even know how long these changes will be in force. We will then see that reforms are introduced into laws that have been modified by the back door using countless times this sub-refuge of the accompanying laws and that even more have been modified — we will see it later — that years have already been in force; that of rigor and stability, and with a vocation of permanence over time — which the counselor said. But — it must also be said — not because it is predictable, the People's Party ceases to surprise us every year; and this year they have passed, fit themselves, and modify three of the five laws they passed in 2019: the Law on Rehabilitation, Regeneration and Urban Renewal, seven months in force; the Law on Digital Administration, three months; and the Law on Natural Heritage and Biodiversity of Galicia, of August this year, that is, not two months in force. [[Applause]] Changes which, in addition, in the exhibition of motives have to be explained to us and which justify us as punctual —din — to correct mistakes —din — but which are, in fact, the palmer example of the most absolute improvisation of the Government of the People's Party in front of the Council of Galicia. They are concerned about these three laws which were adopted this year in 2019 and which before the end of the year will suffer their first amendment, especially those which are introduced into the Natural Heritage Law because — I insist that it came into force in August this year, that is, two months ago — they were now informed that they had to introduce the prescription in the obligation to repair the damage caused in order to prescribe it at the age of fifteen, when it had not been prescribed before — they will have to explain to us why; two months later, I do not know, entered the northeast by the door of San Caetano and someone decided that it was best to introduce this prescription at the age of fifteen — and that is interesting — the obligation to repair the pending damage to run up to the moment, i.e.e. with retroactive character. But besides, the thing doesn't stay there, no. On this occasion they modify a total of thirty laws of a pen, which add up to the forty-six reforms carried out through the Accompanying Law since 2017; that is, seventy-six laws reformed by this way in which we carry out legislation. Reforms which, as they can verify, have a great deal to do with the execution of the budget and a great deal about the budget of the Galician Union by 2020, for example, the Hunting Law. The Hunting Act has a great deal to do with the budgets and the budget execution of the Galician Union, which amends to authorize the hunting in hand and to jump—you even explained it, Counsellor—in the sole and exclusively case of the boar. We have already warned from the BNG in this House of the risks that this entails and the absolutely erratic policy of the People's Party in the Galician Union to address the problem of barbarism and the prejudices that this species causes especially in the agricultural sector. The great ideas that the People's Party has to confront the problem with the boar species are liberalizing hunting any day of the year, any day of the week, in thirty-three municipalities, and now allowing certain forms of hunting or hunting modalities, uniquely and exclusively linked to the lesser hunt, to be extendable to the boar. But when the Galego Nationalist Block brings to this House and proposes parliamentary groups to set up a study commission with experts to deal decisively with and exercise the competences that this country has in the field of agriculture and forestry, they say no. All we have to do is make this change. They also change the Landscape Protection Act -- you also quoted it, and you forgot to say it's a law of the year 2007 -- and they change it to the action plans, which you've been missing for a decade -- plans that, like the landscape guidelines, should have been approved for ten years. They haven't met a law for ten years, but now they're proposing a change in their articulation, we don't know very well for that either. They also propose the reform of Galicia's Research and Innovation Promotion Act of 2013. This is the third time they make an amendment to this law by means of accompanying laws! They did it in 2015, they did it again in 2017, and now they're back again, to modify the minimum content that must include the Welsh Research Plan. And why do they reform her? Well, to take things away from him. For example, the temporary period of vigency, which was fixed in five years and now disappears; they delete part of the minimum content that must include the plan, including the ratio of programs that make it up, the means needed, the formation of people who are integrated into research groups, among many other things. For the BNG—and we take it throughout this plenary session—a strategic axis for the economic, social and cultural development of our country, such as research and innovation, cannot be regulated to impulses, without dialogue, without participation, and much less through accompanying laws. They also amended the Law of the Greek University System to extend the financing plan. And this is a question that since BNG we've already moved to the councillor himself in Commission 3 on the basis of his attendance; we don't know very well whether this is his way of saying, on the one hand, that they won't sit down to negotiate with universities, as repeatedly repeated in recent years, they've been demanding the three principals of this country's public universities, or we also have a suspicion that it's the way the People's Party and the Government of Galicia are going to say that they're going to put an end to legislation before time; who knows? But then the Accompanying Law includes the classics, the classics, the top has laws reformed by the back door. Land law, fifth reform, takes more reforms than years into force — rigor and stability — five reforms. They now propose, among other questions, two that concern the BNG in this accompanying law. Allowing unconsolidated urban soil promoters to deliver 10% of their value to the metal councils instead of the ground; it could be a step back if this type of non-conversion is generalized through their value to the metal at 10%, especially in those large urbanizations, because of the risk that these funds could end up elsewhere other than the public land supply. And secondly, allow for changes in use in buildings that are out of order. And from our point of view, this is very questionable by its laxity. Even in rustic soil they can keep forbidden uses; that is, instead of continuing to subject buildings contrary to urban regulations to a severe regime of limitations in use can give them — as it were in some way — a second life, favoring different uses. And then there is the Land Mobility Act, another classic in the People's Party accompanying laws, five reforms, four of them with accompanying laws, and this time they intend to incorporate this idea of model villages, the People's Party's Star Proposal to resurrect the Land Bank, which they have left to die and which they have so often criticized. [[Applause]] Now you've lost this country for ten years. Because of their irresponsibility and political sectarianism, this country and the Greek rural environment have lost ten years. And now they embrace what they once criticized. [[Applause]] Welcome to Bolshevism, really, welcome to Boljevism. [[Applause]] And the largest, the largest, Ana Kiro — if I may — of all the laws reformed by the back door. I believe — perhaps it is a little personal or professional defect — that there are things that are better to see and that are worth more an image than a thousand words. The Forest Fire Prevention and Defence Act of 2007. Do you know how many times they reformed her? This one's the only one left of the original version, since we're talking about music, is the title, it's the only title left of it. [[Mr. Rodil Fernández shows a document.]] And what we know is that the middle rural -- we don't know if that's a decision by the entire government -- the councilman, what he's saying around here is that he's going to push a new one. [[Applause]] Four reform leaflets since you entered the San Caetano gate in 2009. And now they're proposing to reform two articles this year. One is Article 12, the third time they change it. [[Murmurs.]] They bring an amendment to Article 12, the third time they change this article. And the fourth article 21 changes. Laws are reformable, of course, but for that, when there is nothing left to a law, what it says -- I don't know -- parliamentaryism and democratic systems are that proposals for reform or different laws should be brought. [[Murmurs.]] And that's what he said to the ESC, who, if they wanted to change the law, proposed a reform project. [[Applause]] And why do Article 12 change for the fourth time and Article 21 for the fourth time? So to legalize the agreement signed between Junta and Fegamp in April on the public biomass management system and so that the cleaning of the protection strips can be done through employment workshops, something that can be positive. We from BNG don't say no, but always it doesn't generalize, because it was meant to be precarious with many working conditions. We are talking about people in regulated training, in occupational training or in dual training, who can in no case replace Seaga or any forest service company, who must have more experienced staff. They also reform the Law on social services, on sport, on tourism, on cultural heritage, on ports, on water, on cooperatives, on health, on internal trade, on transport, on roads and on social inclusion, including the moratorium on the opening of betting houses, which you agreed on in an agreement of the Council of the United States and for which nine months were in force. Because they promised a new law that we've been waiting for a year and nine months, a year and nine months. And you yourself had to introduce this extension in that moratorium into the Accompanying Law because you're saying in some way that when it would culminate in that moratorium agreed on the Board of Trustees, which would be in February 2020, you're not yet going to bring to this chamber that preliminary draft of the new Game Law. In total, you amend with this Act of accompaniment thirty laws and a clemency of decrees. Is it legal? It is, but neither ethical nor aesthetic and much less democratic. Since the BNG we have neither agreed nor supported this form of legislation, especially in silent reforms that have to do with areas and strategic sectors for this country, such as territorial management, such as the agricultural sector, such as innovation and research policy, which must be the driving force in this country. [[Applause]] I insist: because it steals the social debate, the parliamentary debate and assumes an exceptional mechanism which the People's Party has decided to convert into standard. About tax measures I don't have much time. It's been talked all morning. We don't share what we understand is a regressive tax policy, which carries tax on income from work and indirect taxes. It's not that they update the rates, it's that they go up all the fixed counting rates. And, above all, what we do not share from any point of view is that expansion of the inheritance tax exemption for inheritances of EUR 1,000,000 to the second degree of kinship. You said: secure family income. There's no worker, no worker who earns this amount only from the incomes of his job, no worker who wins it. I insist: we will not support this law, neither by the background nor, above all, by the form. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Joint Left Group, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u120	As the counselor would say, after this intense debate, I am exhausted from the vocation of permanence here. Well, Counselor, you spoke, looking at the opposition, talking about competition, which we didn't really like the competition much, taking the subject off. It must be you, who gives Naturgy all the contracts in Sogama, who are the fans of free competition, right? You're the ones who set up a very competitive, very liberalized electric sector to send three. Counselor, when you appeal to coherence, I think you should look at something more about yourself and your party. As for fiscal policy, after so much talk today about fiscal policy, I can no longer add anything better than what was said, except that I can read the agreement of Vox and PP in Andalusia. Three points in that agreement: 1. Impulse a fiscal reform that reflects the 99% bonus of inheritance and donation tax. 2. Lowering the autonomic section of the wealth tax. 3. Revert the rise of the tax on transmissions. Popular Voice-Party. When Mr. Tellado said that he'd be a pacter with Pedro Sánchez, I don't know what troops Pedro Sánchez deals with; you, with Vox's legionary troops, and it's much worse. But it's the usual, it's the usual, you don't have to go into detail, what you've always done and what you always do: lower taxes to the rich, increase inequalities, cut public services. [[Applause]] It must be the Spanish patriotic policy: the bulls and lower taxes on the rich, criminalize immigration and avoid taxes or kiss the flag and open an account in Switzerland. That's the Spanish patriotic policy of the People's Party with Vox. By the way, as far as fiscal policy is concerned, Mr Counsellor, what effect did tax subsidies and tax exemptions have on rural population fixing? Do you know? Because you justify these exemptions to look for population fixation. Have they measured the effect? Because I say that, despite the fact that taxes are greatly reduced in housing, if there is no employment, if there is no public service, if there is no school, if there is no doctor nearby, if there is no day centres, people continue to leave the countryside, as they have continued to abandon you in government. Of course, rural houses are much cheaper than urban houses, they've come from time to time, much cheaper in many places. And instead, you don't buy rural housing, you buy urban housing. For something it will be. I think we have to change other things deeper and with other policies than these tax exemptions. I think we need to reverse the policy of cutting the public, their policies of disordering the territory, etc., to work seriously to fix the population in rural areas. And, following the tradition in the People's Party, bring us, like every six months, an amendment to the Law of the Land, a Law of the Land that would bring us stability and legal security. The only security he has brought us is that it's certain that every six months we're going to have a legislative amendment. And once again, change is not for the better. The direction of the urbanism of the Government of Feijóo Marcans who do business with speculation, and there they feel very comfortable. They recover the practice of monetaryization in unconsolidated urban and urban actions. I mean, in the performances on this type of soil, instead of giving the ground up for the public heritage of the soil, you're going to allow that 10% of typical profit to be paid in cash, in metal. With which it is a bet against the enrichment of the public heritage of the soil, so necessary and so important for many things, but fundamental and essential for public housing policies. You know that you don't want to make public housing policy, you want the market to take care of everything, and the market even deals with a lot of people going to the streets, because you don't have to pay for a housing policy, and the drama continues, and you do everything else you're going to do to end that drama. While there are fourteen thousand protection housing applicants, most of them — more than ten thousand — in rent, you paralyze the building of protection housing, have radically paralysed it. And with this measure they walk more in that direction, allowing the municipalities that gain metal income instead of acquiring soil, so necessary for the construction and promotion of housing. Curiously — and I wonder, I don't know if I will have an answer — they maintain the obligation to transfer to non-metallic land in the integral actions in the rural core. They leave money to urbanize and urban unconsolidated, but leave it in the countryside. Would it be a forgetful thing, Mr. Fernández Prado, would it be a new forget? Will we have an amendment within six months again of the law? That is to say, with this measure the People's Party returns to the past, renounces the intervention of the soil and housing market, degrading its basic instrument, the municipal heritage of the soil. And in addition, since the monetaryization of such use must be accompanied by economic valuation — we know what happened in the past: selling at the expense of such profits to promoters -- this monetaryization is even more serious in Galicia when you no longer arrive modified the Housing Law to exclude the municipalities from having to reserve 35% reserve for protected housing in urban transformation. With all this kind of measure, the promoters are very grateful, but people, and the humblest people, are not. And then also the modifications to the Land Law, which are not minor and are not to accompany the budgets, are deeper into the deprotection and disorder of the rustic soil. Warnings: any construction in rustic soil prior to May 1975 will be traditional housing, regardless of the characteristics, of the typology. In the current integrated interpretation of the applicable Galician Land Law, traditional building should respond to traditional typology, as is normal. By that way, they could be rehabilitated, reformed, built, even extended traditional dwellings, but with this modification they could be rebuilt, reformed, rehabilitated warehouses, industrial ships, bricks and all kinds of buildings, including those that call the faism, to transform residential buildings, which will not even have to be linked to agricultural holdings, because that requirement is removed. Buildings raised in rustic soil with municipal license, whatever the use to grant authorization, can also be transformed into housing, such as industrial ships, livestock production, etc. And even buildings illegally built in rustic soil with respect to those that have elapsed the deadlines for repossession of urban legality — six years — and which are subject to the construction regime which is incompatible with urban planning may also be transformed into residential use. I mean, you go back to the 1956 Land Law, to the Frankist Law, allowing any kind of performance in rustic soil, practically. Well, the Law on Rehabilitation, Regeneration and Renewal. In Law 1/2019, passed in April of this year and already amended — but this was not said by the counsellor, even in the explanatory statement, they are treated as a very discreet necklace for the bajini—one of the articles of that law that we were told was perfect, that it did not deprotect the heritage. Counsellor, I know that you have little to say here, that you haven't been allowed to say much in the drafting of the Rehabilitation and Regeneration Act. Well, as Article 15.5(a) is deleted in the explanatory statement, that is to say, we use it to modify the Rehabilitation Act, to modify errors or omissions, errors or omissions. In other words, Article 15.5.a) which is one of the articles that has challenged and denounced the Government of the State for unconstitutional and so the bilateral commission was created to discuss the constitutionality of that article, one of the most harmful, as we have denounced, because you withdraw it and try not even to make self-criticism, namely that you were assaulting our heritage. Article 15.5 of the regulation was that it was possible to exclude the maintenance of urban plots, alignments and scrapings in historical sets. And we denounce that even this precept and others were unconstitutional, for paying attention to the preservation of the heritage, and you, concealing it, withdraw it. The bad thing, Counselor, is that they didn't take advantage of other points that, challenged by the State, are also harmful to our architectural heritage. And I read textually the agreement establishing the Joint State Bilateral Commission: "As a follow-up to the agreement signed on 12 July 2019 to initiate negotiations with a view to resolving the discrepancies maintained in relation to Articles 26.3, 27(a) 36.4 of Law 1/2019 on rehabilitation, regeneration and urban renewal of Galicia, the object is extended to Articles 13.4, 15.5, 44.1 and 2 of Law 1/2019". Nothing but these articles speak of, on the one hand, exceptions to compliance with the laws on the protection of the heritage when it comes to works of accessibility and energy efficiency, amended — I believe and I believe I am not mistaken — by all opposition groups in the process of law, or the process of direct licensing of the municipalities without having to have the permission of Heritage to do such acts, and the State determines that they have signs of unconstitutionality; and they will have to be withdrawn and will have to be changed. That's why we recommend that, if this law prospers, the bill prospers — I suppose so — they will approve our partial amendments, and so they will improve the law and do everything at once and we won't have to be changing the legislation over and over again. On the other hand, the amendment of the Hunting Law is the example of a government that, after ten years of rural exclusion policy, is no longer able to control the situation at most. Jabaril is a problem arising from this abandonment, from territorial disorder, from the progress of the eucalyptus forestation, from the loss of land and from the absence, during that time, of policies that allow reliable information, effective control elements and tested. And in the wake of the avalanche of complaints from peasants and rural neighbors, of militants of the People's Party, of a very serious problem that you can't control, they improvise from day to day a measure that accords the gangsters and the ecologists, which will not serve to address the problem and which will be a security issue on the mountain, and also without any kind of argument behind that proposal that guarantees neither even the control of the boar population. There's no study to support this measure, it's the measure of nervousness, of not knowing what to do now and of not having done the duties. Now it's changed, you'll be able to use the mount every day you're asked for, with groups of two people, when you first had to go groups of nine people, with lots more security measures, a ammunition that's very dangerous, etc., etc.; and — I say — agree ecologists and hunters. It'll be a security problem and it won't solve anything. And they call it the legislation of the countryside. They intend to cover up all that mess — I say — with the exception of buying housing. It's also changed — and it's almost a record; it's not a record because the Land Law changed a week after it was passed, but it's almost a record, I think it's in item number 2 — the Galician Natural Heritage Act, which, according to Mr. Trenor, was a miracle and which was to be approved before August 2, yes or yes, because it was very urgent; it gave no reason for the urgency, but we've already seen that urgency was not urgency, it was precipitation, and it was made confusing in its drafting. Article 136.3 of the applicable law, adopted on 2 August this year — we still have a recent memory — says: the obligation to repair the damage caused, as provided for in Article 126, does not prescribe; and this was not amended by any opposition group, we agreed. The environmental damage caused should not be prescribed, they should not prescribe; instead, you now introduce an article that says: the obligation to repair the damage caused regulated in this law will prescribe within fifteen years, counted since the Administration gave notice of the act that accords its imposition, regardless of the date of the start of the calculation of the penalty prescription, usually sets out number 2 of this article, without prejudice to the application of Law 26/2007, of environmental responsibility, for the repair of damages..., such... That is to say, the modification of this article, at least worsening the drafting of the current law, intentionally induces confusion. Because the Environmental Responsibility Act 26/2007 provides: this law will not apply to environmental damage over thirty years since it was issued, the event or incident that caused them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u121	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u122	So, we want to know if these fifteen years that you propose are for instruction, for the restoration of the facts before the damage produced, or whether it is the prescription of the obligation to sanction the damage caused, i.e., to demand the repair of the damage. And we believe that it must be clear, when the final law is made, that there is a difference between the prescription of damage and the prescription of the administrative process initiated by the Administration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u123	Thank you, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u124	I'll be done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u125	No, it's over. Look at the clock, we're very short of time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u126	Yes, I miscalculated.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u127	We all miscalculated.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u128	This law is the reflection of a government collapsed in rural areas, which has no alternatives to industrial policy, led by mining lobbyists, electric promoters and fiscally unfair, regressive...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u129	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u130	...and houses, houses, houses, houses, anti-constitutional.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u131	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Porrit.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u132	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. Today we are debating in this plenary the draft law on tax measures, a bill that we will not support, which, although we cannot talk about tax fraud — as my shirt says — should fight against it should be one of the objectives of every government, also of the Government of Greece — and so we have seen it claiming — always within our powers, Counsellor. Because fraud is defined as a deception, as an action contrary to truth, to law-enforcement justice, which harms the person against whom it is committed, today I'm going to talk about other kinds of fraud. I'll start by talking about parliamentary fraud. The Accompanying Law on Annual Budgets is a mechanism that allows the Greek Government to modify other laws when they are supposedly related to tax or financial matters related to the public accounts of each year. However, the governments of the PP of Manuel Fraga and Núñez Feijóo — as the spokesmen and the spokesperson who preceded me and even justified the councilman — are now using this mechanism to amend all kinds of previous laws, although they have no connection with tax matters, using a procedure that is legal but that involves parliamentary fraud, since it limits the debate on this chamber. This legislative strategy of the People's Party to modify all kinds of previous rules by means of accompanying laws contrasts with its legislative inability. With regard to this X legislation, despite its absolute majority, it was only able to approve fifteen laws — eighteen if we take account of the accompanying laws — six in 2017 — they left half of the announced ones unapproved, eleven; in 2018 the Parliament of Galicia was the least productive of all autonomous communities; and in this year 2019, five laws, three of them promised in 2017; if well, in the same period, in what goes of this legislation, through these accompanying laws, Junta has amended up to fifty nine previous laws — and I say so, because it is often difficult to know the law it amends. Of these fifty-nine, twenty-seven of the amended laws came on more than one occasion in these last four years. And, of them, five, as the people who preceded me have already commented, have been corrected every year: the laws of the ground, of social services, of internal trade, of public employment and the Law of fees, which would be the only one that would fit in the tax objective of this law. Of these fifty-nine, more than half, thirty-three, have been driven by the Government of Feijóo itself since 2009. And also, as has already been said, this year thirty previous laws of all kinds are amended, three of them adopted this year 2019. The legislative summary of this X legislation would be fifteen new laws approved and fifty-nine modified. Little legislate and much changed. An accelerated processing of pre-existing laws that goes against the principle of transparency and legal security. In short, a process that involves parliamentary fraud, since, thanks to its absolute majority, it moves the work of the opposition, limiting the parliamentary debate. It may be that this way of acting has to do with the speech of its government partners in some communities and municipalities, those governments Casado-Abascal, with that speech by Vox to suppress the state of autonomy. And indeed, to move forward in the content of the law, if, as a new Member incorporated into these parliamentary debates a few months ago, I am surprised by this parliamentary fraud of what I have been talking about, as I would have been a public servant since 1996 — as a public servant, as I have always been defined — I cannot assume social fraud, fraud against the people and the Greeks who assume the tax measures collected in this bill, which have a great deal to do with the cuts in public services which are currently suffering from citizenship. The budgets of the Galician Union are repeatedly gathering tax cuts to wealth, favoring the increase of inequalities. And again, in this accompanying law, if you include new discounts for citizenship with more heritage. The counselor said that this tax discount model is a model that works and has a great social acceptance, a model that has a positive impact on the pocket of the Greeks and the Greeks. But the truth is it does it only in the pocket of those who have it full, and more and more, in the pocket of those rich people who pay less and less taxes and who see how their wealth multiply by 500 percent, while the number of poor workers who live in precariously increases, and while we have a million people who don't reach the end of the month. The Government quantifys the tax benefits for this year in 448 million euros. And he says that 95% of them are of a social nature. They present social impact measures, but most of them won't have an important effect. These are electoral measures that try to hide the real tax cuts for taxpayers with greater economic capacity. The counselor said this morning -- and he repeated it a moment ago -- that we bet on a model with more taxes. And that's not true, Counselor. We bet on charging more taxes to those with the most economic capacity, we bet on complying with article 31 of the Constitution. And I've already gone to taxes — we've talked about little of them today — the other day I've said in my full intervention that every tax benefit is an instrument of social policy that has a definite objective. And, Counselor, you complained that we're not talking about green deduction. I'll talk about her. He told the Galician Board that the objective of this deduction is the energy improvement of buildings in Galicia's building park, which will give rise to an important savings in the annual consumption of heating and air conditioning energy. And this is in the light of the reality that many Greek families have trouble reaching the end of the month, the reality that many families live on the edge of poverty, the reality that putting on heating is a luxury that many families cannot afford. The cost of this measure is 2.5 million. And I don't agree with it for a number of reasons. Firstly, the possibility of being able to apply it to all homes favours those contributors with a real estate, and this — I repeat — is faced with a real situation where access to housing in a property or rent scheme is a great problem for a large sector of society. How many yellows and how many Galicians can be allocated up to 10,000 euros right now? Secondly, it's referred to as passive subject deduction, when it should be by individual or joint declaration. And the investment, the EUR 10,000 —9,000 for paragraph A, and the basis for paragraph B — exceeds the EUR 9.040 of the deduction per habitual dwelling, deduction abolished by the Minister of Montoro. Don't deceive the citizens, Counselor. This measure is aimed at a very clear sector of our society. And if we're talking about the real estate being rented, it can give rise to a double taxation. And before moving on to the next impossive figure, one last question. All deductions practiced in the IRPF have a limitation: the amounts used must be obtained in the exercise. In this way, it is denied the possibility of resorting to savings, to the taxpayer's wealth. The Galician Union, in this and other deductions, sets no limits. It's not that you don't pay for the estate, it's that you're also allowed to use it to benefit from the IRPF. If we go down the inheritance tax, rising from a minimum of 400,000 to 1,000,000 euros, it's unfair and shameful. And, of course, it doesn't respond to the reality of the country. The councilman this morning also said that the opposition calls those 350,000 people who benefited from the reductions launched in 2016. Don't lie, Counselor, we're not saying that. As you also mentioned that these measures benefit the live successor pacts, I'm going to tell you a story. We have a married marriage in a winning scheme that in 2000 bought a plot in the center of Ourense for a value of 200,000 euros. In 2020, a real estate offer you EUR 2,000,000. The marriage consults your tax advisor, Mr. Martínez, to inform you of what would be the amount you would have to pay in your income statement. In a capital gain of EUR 900,000, the share to be paid by each — considering only this operation — is EUR 101,790 of State share and EUR 101,790 of the autonomous share. It is EUR 203,580 which would pay each; EUR 407,160 in total. But the adviser, Mr. Martínez, offers him a new possibility: to make his son Alberto a pact for improvement. In this way, marriage does not pay anything in the IRPF for the exemption of Article 33.3 extendable to the covenants of improvement and contribution — as the counselor has said this morning. And his son Alberto doesn't pay anything in the estate tax either, since he inherits a million euros from each of his parents. Later on, the son transmits his home for these two million. The taxes paid as a result of this operation are zero euros. The taxes you would pay for the first, 407.160 euros. Going to the object of your measure, will you keep your family heritage to its full, Counselor? No, no, no, no. The objective of the operation is to sell the farm, and sell the farm by paying the possible lower taxes — tax in this case. Do you keep the family's economic capacity to its full? No, it increases considerably and without paying a single euro. So this tax rebate will give rise to real estate operations that can be legal but which are a social fraud, an economic deception, with the intention of getting a benefit and with which someone gets harmed; in this case, the Greeks and the Greeks. And already going down the transmission tax, in this case the goal of tax reduction is to buy housing, both first and second residences, in about 3,500 parishes that the Union considers small areas or rural areas. According to the German Government, the goal is to recover population and dynamize less inhabited areas. However, in this list there are parishes of clearly tourist councils, such as San Vicente do Grove, or which are part of the metropolitan areas of Vigo or Coruña — Baredo, in Baiona; or Dexo, in Oleiros — where, of course, there are no major problems of depopulation, but rather a high urban pressure of second residences. The collection cost is €9,304,200. If what is intended is to population and dynamize rural areas, it will be necessary to reside permanently and continuously in rural areas. In other words, the so-called housing must be the usual housing. And one more thing we're going to have to offer, because rural people are suffering from cuts of services, closing schools, less doctors, or there's not even an automatic cashier and no Internet connection. Therefore, rather than dynamizing, we have to talk again about real estate speculation, rural exploitation, and rewarding those who have the most economic capacity, because, with this measure, those citizens who have economic means are the ones who can benefit from these new reductions. As for the tax type, I'm also called the attention that the second residence goes from 10% to 6%, a four-point discount, while the usual housing drops from 7% to 5%, only two points. And already talking about fees, while the Galician Union is committed to reducing — practically eliminating — that direct taxation of taxes on wealth taxes — the property tax and the inheritance tax, which allow for the application of the progressiveness that the Spanish Constitution collects and must preside over our tax system, including at the same time a rise in fixed counting rates and also rates for various types of activities — fishing, mining or transport, among others — taxes that are not progressive and that pay all citizenship equally. The effect of these thirty amendments is EUR 649,787, 6.96 % of the impact of reductions on capital transmission tax and 11.72 % of the impact of reductions on inheritance and concession tax. And it's over, president. It's a way to get rid of -- I repeat -- hiding the scandalous tax cuts. Despite the objectives with which Junta presents these tax reductions, we have clear which are the same, which are the ones that want to achieve the Council of Galicia with these tax benefits: to favor those who have the most...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u133	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u134	...the cost of cuts in public services — ended, Mr President — And I refuse to exercise a progressive fiscal policy in which higher income contributes to a better and more meaningful and fair redistribution.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u135	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u136	And in the second intervention I will talk about the administrative measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u137	Thank you very much, Mrs. Porrit. On behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río has the floor, either in favour or against amendments, or spokespersons from the non-amendant group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Porrit, the T-shirt is fine, but you could take advantage of your shift here too to ask for the resignation of former socialist minister Elena Espinosa, who has a company to avoid paying taxes. But of course, as it is protected by Abel Caballero and Gonzalo Caballero, for we do not speak of it; or of the ministers of Mr. Pedro Sánchez, Mr. Pedro Duque and Mrs. Celá, who also have companies that could put you there, too, on the shirt, and some other name. [[Applause]] They didn't quit because they were already behind them. After Maxim Huerta and the minister of education, of course, they stopped resigning. But just as in the second shift you can talk about them, I'm sure they're much better off on your shirt. I have just heard here, ladies and gentlemen, many criticisms of the law of measures and no recognition. It is true — as I have said on other occasions that we are debating this issue — that for us it is not the best instrument of legislative technique. But I also have to say that, thanks to the law on measures, there are issues that are causing difficulties in the application of some law, in the handling of some matters. And the citizenry that demands are solutions. Politicians are here to solve people's problems, not to generate problems, and much less to generate distrust in a legislative text that nothing is hidden and nothing is rare, no. In fact, you have discussed all those issues here, and we, in the People's Parliamentary Group, have received collectives that are affected by this law. I suppose you too would receive them, and I suppose you'll make some kind of amendment on that same line, too. First of all, the Socialist Party's amendment is full of mistakes, not to mention fraud. Since you've talked about fraud, we can say it's an "amendment of fraud", an amendment of fraud with demagogy and half-truth, ladies and gentlemen. When you say this law doesn't respect the spirit of the Constitutional Court ruling 76/1992, it's not true, it's not true. Because you know that sentence refers to the Budgets Act and not to the Measurements Act. You say that the Law on measures has to be referred to matters relating to budgets. No, they know perfectly well that it's an ordinary law. And they know because, besides, where they rule, they use it every year too. This is a classic. The Valencian Community, ruled by Mr. Ximo Puig, who is of the Socialist Party, does not break the garments with the Law of Measures, for this year has indeed passed. Mrs. Olalla Rodil, do you have a follow-up to Valencia? Yeah, but it's interesting to know what's legislated in other communities. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And, look, you know what they did in Valencia? For in Valencia they said: "The Council will approve the Accompanying Law by Ordinary Way even if budgets are extended" No budgets, Mrs Rodil, no budgets! They announced the Accompanying Law to Budgets without Budgets. A month later they decided to approve the budgets and are now in this process. But when they put them in motion and when they presented the Law of Measures and of Accompanying to Budgets they didn't intend to approve the budgets. So, gentlemen, what's the matter with you, or do you do something where you rule, or do you do something where you rule, and say the opposite where you are in the opposition? You look like a fraud here, it's opaque, it doesn't respect legal security, etc. Well, I'm not going to give credibility to any of the criticisms of any member of the opposition as long as you don't tell us the same of your governments, of your parties where they are ruling — like Valencia, Aragon and other autonomous communities — that do exactly the same, that use the same instrument of legislative technique. As long as they don't say the same thing about their governments, we won't accept they say that about this government, ladies, because that's the real reality of their credibility and their inconsistency. [[Applause]] Mrs. Porritt, "other fraud," you say in your amendment that this bill has not been subjected to the preceptive process of public exposure. You know that the previous public consultation is not mandatory when the partial aspects of a matter are regulated. And this is the case. Nor is the ESC's report necessary, since we are not faced with a full regulation of a socio-economic matter directly linked to Galicia's economic and social development. There's no hidden reforms. All reforms made through the Law of Measures have been explained to citizenship; even some as early as in the debate of the state of autonomy, when the President of the Union announced that he would go to the free of charge of children's schools from 0 to 3 years for the second child. And, taking advantage of this example, I'm going to highlight the inconsistencies of the opposition, which you can say in a folio the same and the opposite by turning it around, in the same amendment. For example, the Mixed Group, if they're interested in composing income levels and if they want to criticise a measure, ask that the service be universalized — so it's in relation to the freeness of the second child in children's schools. Ah!, but two paragraphs later, we go back to the leaflet, and about deduction to high-level sportsmen say it's a regression measure, and therefore they say it's to bet on why it's for all sportsmen with a review of the incomes of the global calculation. We all still remember when the People's Party Government eliminated universality for the loan of school books. Do you remember? Do you remember when you said no, that that was a measure that had to be universal, that couldn't be for income levels? When it's appropriate to criticize them, they criticize themselves for income levels; and when it's appropriate to criticize them, they ask for universalization of service. They agree with themselves that it would be very important to be consistent. [[Applause]] But coherence is a very scarce thing on the left. They can say one thing and the opposite is no longer one day at a time. It's that they can say one thing when they have lunch, the opposite when they eat, and one different from the previous two when they have dinner. That's the model of Pedro Sánchez, who can say one thing as a candidate, the opposite as president and the opposite of the previous two as president in functions. We thought that was a dogma of faith, that of the most holy trinity — one being and three people. For now we have the unique being, which is Pedro Sánchez, a triune being, who can say what he wants, with different positions at different times of the day, day by day! [[Applause]] Not different days anymore, but on the same day. [[Murmurs.]] Well, Mr. Sánchez said there were three points—Sánchez "the good one." Yeah, look, let's talk. If you're Sánchez "the good one," how will the other Sánchez be, Mr Sánchez! [[Murmurs.]] Look, the other Sánchez -- or not so good, I don't know if it's bad or less bad, or I don't know how to say it -- who's agreed with you, they're dealing with you, they're hugging and they're agreeing... well, yeah, I don't know... Oh, aren't you these? [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, I don't know. [[Laughter]] He came to the gallery very happy to say to Mr. Tellado, "Yes, we could." So I am very glad, Mr. Lago, that this embrace one so much to that whole group that was so dismembered, in which they were so angry, and now to see them so happy. Well, three points no longer an agreement, Mr. Sánchez, three points of reality, only three examples for Galicia. You're dealing with someone who closes Endesa, who closes Alcoa, who's risking the sale and the automotive sector with "dezelass", and so you could go on with a lot more. That's your model. We, of course, have another one. He spoke before coherence. Well, look, that political incoherence that you have, that you can say one thing, the opposite or another depending on how the wind comes, or depending on how you think you can pick up votes, what you do is... you talk a lot about the climate emergency, the feminist emergency... well, you know what I think? [[Murmurs.]] I believe that at this moment we are in this country at a time of political emergency, we are in political emergency. And you know why? No, no, we're in political emergency, red alert, because you're using the technique of confronting society, the rich and the poor, the up and down... yes, yes, the good and the bad. [[Strong murmurers.]] [[Strong murmurers.]] We remove taxes on the rich, pressure on workers and workers, etc. Of course, it's just that they haven't bought that speech since they bought the "cassoon" in Galapagar and we have a child-career person 24 hours a day, which none of the below can afford the luxury of paying. Now that speech from above and from below, from the rich and the poor, fell and lost electoral support, lost electoral support. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, don't alter, don't alter, I see them a little altered. Don't worry, I'm talking about reality, I'm talking about reality!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u139	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u140	They, for example, have been criticising, since the BNG, that many of the amendments made in the Law on measures are topical issues on recent standards of approval, a few months ago, Mrs Rodil said.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u141	Quiet, Mrs. Santos, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u142	It's a little complicated, Mr. President. Thank you. In addition, the document says that these have been modified for only a few months. He says he denotes the improvisation of the German Government. [[Murmurs.]] And in the same leaflet, the BNG criticizes that the Law of Measures requires an express processing, processed with opacity and subtracting from the political debate the changes and changes it wants to make. If we are, Mrs Rodil, in the light of timely amendments to the laws which were adopted seven months ago, which have passed through this Parliament, which have had all the preliminary reports, which have had all the parliamentary procedure, which have had all the political debate, how can you say now that it is due to timely changes in many issues? And you set an example, and Mr. Sánchez also put another one, which is that of Galicia's Rehabilitation and Regeneration and Urban Renewal Act. Do you know what changes? Promptly modifys the referral to two articles, two errors; and the other, exactly the same, the removal of a point. Of course, this for you had to have a long process, subjected to political debate and so on. Well, I don't think so, that there's no subtraction of any kind of debate. Because, in addition, they know that when you start applying the rules, you are in their application, of course, that they are. Man, yes, we could wait here two years to solve people's problems. No, it's better for you to say that we do because we have a subterfuge of not knowing that... well, that's your speech of the apocalypse, in which we don't want to enter. Then, with regard to the amendment of the Land Law, it's nice, Mrs. Vázquez Verao, the reference you make in your amendment to the report of the People's Valedora. It seems he's already become his header book. To criticize her so much and say that she was "the valet of the PP," to say now that this is the respect of the Board for self-government institutions, such as Valdoria, when they don't say what PP wants to hear... well, it turns out it wasn't as much of the PP. I'm glad, but, well, I like having it as a reference book and headbook. Another topic you all talked about here was the monetaryization of the 10% allocation of the type of distribution area. You look bad, and as it's an amendment to the Law of the Earth, because we've already begun to invent, we're beginning to fantasize, we're starting to say things that aren't. Point one, it's very clear in the law. Now, if you want to manipulate what the law says, there you are! I'll explain what the law says, not what I want to imagine or what you want to imagine. The law is very clear, Mr. Sánchez, the law says that, for those cases where land cannot be used for public protected housing, then monetaryize... Home!, let's see! I read it, because it seems like... "It should be integrated into the public heritage of the ground, unless it can be accomplished with soil for the housing under some public protection regime, because of the reserve that may be expensive." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, you know that this public heritage of the soil is destined solely for the construction of public protected housing. Don't you? Then go up to this rostrum, and when you go up to this rostrum, tell me what money from the land heritage can be used for. Tell me, because if it's not for the public housing, then we're going to have to -- I don't know -- study legislation differently, or look... well, you're going to solve it here. I say it is exactly what the law says, that it should be intended solely for the purchase of public housing because it integrates into the public heritage of the soil. So you don't say that this money isn't meant for public housing, because it's false, it's a lie, they're lying to people, they're manipulating what the law says. And we won't allow it, we won't allow it. [[Applause]] Now, of course, something can happen. The one who decides is the county, and I don't know if you, where you rule, are thinking of illegally allocating land equity money to something else that isn't public housing. If that's the case, say it, because since we're drafting a law respecting 100 percent the fate of that money. [[Murmurs.]] Because, for example, if we're talking about an industrial ship in tertiary soil, you tell me, Mr. Sánchez, how you're going to put that 10% profit for public housing in that tertiary land. Do you have the ability to do that? Would I have it? No, right? Of course! So if we can't allocate in tertiary soil that urban use for housing, let's make it easier for municipalities, via monetaryization, to do so in another area of the municipality, unique and exclusively for protected housing, unique and exclusively for protected housing. [[Applause]] To say otherwise is to lie, to lie.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u143	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u144	And so, absolutely, all the issues they talked about. And on the rehabilitation of homes prior to 1975, Mr Sánchez, to rehabilitate what already exists to effectively avoid feism and not build new things, of course!, that is what he says!, facilitate the settlement of population in rural without having to build new dwellings but rather rehabilitating what already exists. [[Murmurs.]] I understand that you are interested, as opposition, in that things were different, but that's not how things are as they are and how they are established in legislation. And they don't twist the words because the words are written. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u145	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. We turn to the replica of the amending parliamentary groups. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u146	Well, I know it's to insist on the argument, but, in order not to like the People's Party this instrument, they increasingly change laws through the Law of tax and administrative measures. This year they're almost 30, about 30. They abuse the instrument — that is what we say — they abuse too much of that regulatory overrun and greatly exceed the exercise and what is required to do that budget procedure, just as they exceed those timely changes that may have some way of life. We are also pleased to hear the emergency speech, Mrs. Prado; the emergency speech, yes, feminist, social, ecological, and political as well. But you know why? Because we have half a hundred extremely right-wing Members in the Congress of Deputies, and we have a People's Party which, where it can deal with them, agrees. That's the real political emergency. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u147	Quiet, quiet! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence — before we repent —! Silence! Mr. Vega, be quiet! Excuse me, Mrs. Verao. Excuse me a moment, I'll stop your time. Mr. Vega, be quiet, be quiet! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Lake, be quiet! Silence! Mr. Lago, please be quiet! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! Silence! Mr. Vega, silence! Silence! [[Murmurs.]] Quiet or we'll start calling the order. It's eight o'clock, and it's always the same. At the last minute people get nervous. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! I've already told you three times! So, if you want... [[Murmurs.]] Excuse me, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u148	Yes, I'm also nervous about that speech that denies women the condition of human beings. Tomorrow there will be an opportunity, with all these equality initiatives, to get rid of all that extreme right that is in Congress. That's the political emergency. And as for the tax benefits that incorporate this law, we see that, both some legal changes and those tax benefits, they affect it, for the benefit of large estates and large companies. And this is evident in the Natural Heritage Act and in that prescription of the obligation to repair environmental damage. But it is also in the Rehabilitation Act that they came here to say that it was simply to change, but what it shows is that they are preventively avoiding an appeal from the Constitutional Court of a law that is harmful to the heritage. And he doesn't say it to the opposition, he also says the reports that you didn't want to ask for from the Galeg Culture Council. I've been mentioned earlier for the changes they make in health care. Without going into the bottom, we're certainly betting to sink into public research, for the sake of the precariousness of researchers and researchers. The workers and workers, representatives of the biohealth foundations, have come to meet with us, where there is 75% work insecurity. Finally, without going into that background, the Board is showing an inability to dialogue with the conflicts opened in health care by presenting a primary care document before the work of the committees of the Technical Committee on Primary Care was completed; a document which, on the other hand, at many points we have subscribed and which is an amendment to the whole board. That's why we don't think an accompanying law is the way to change a law like that of health. As well as the universalization of teaching from 0 to 3 I don't think it's comparable to the question of high-level sport. But we insist that as they propose it's a patch that doesn't work in any state, it's an unfair patch socially and it's a Christmas patch. Here is about putting conciliation services, which go further, yes, from the universalization of teaching from 0 to 3 years, go much further, with rationalization of schedules and longer permits. But they cannot attempt to solve the problem of the Greek population with a measure of this silence, which equates families that have a higher income, that by having 2 or 3 children can access this freeness, with a family with less income, which they cannot possibly have 1. It's a retrograde measure too. We, of course, wanted to take advantage of this law to advance the universalization of education, we think that there are resources in the budgets themselves to begin this universalization by deriving funds — which go to private initiatives — for that public network of children's schools. Finally, we are going to vote against this bill. We consider it neither the instrument nor the shape nor the background. Therefore, nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u149	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez Verao. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u150	Thank you, President. Good evening — already at night — again. I don't follow up on Valencia, Mrs. Prado. I have enough with this country, I have enough to follow up on the government you support, and, of course, follow up on the separatist and Soviet league of Basquedi and Catalonia, but especially you. And, out of play, we, at the BNG, we usually answer for our own. And it's funny that you had to go to Valencia or Aragon. He's fallen out of his speech lately, Andalucía. Do you know why you have to constantly resort to those places of the Spanish State? Because we got something with you, Mrs. Prado, and he stopped talking about the two-party government. And do you know why he stopped talking about the two-party government? Because never, ever!, in the three and a half years of two-party government, was used this sub-refugee to reform through the back door more than thirty laws of a pen. [[Applause]] And that was an argument that you used — which I now have in mind — in the previous debate corresponding to the budgets of the year 2019 and, therefore, to the law accompanying those budgets of the year 2019. You don't think it's the best legal procedure. But, in order not to seem like the best legal process, they took a taste that they wouldn't let go. And besides, it's where they are prolific and prolific, it's where more legislative capacity proves, much more than through the transfer to this House — which is where it corresponds — of bills or preliminary drafts of law, either through the Government or through the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party in this case. I remind you again: 30 laws! 30 of a pen!, with both dialogue and thirty minutes per group, between the fifteen minutes we have now, the five minutes we have to replicate, and what follows from the debate within the presentation and commission. Thirty laws this year, which add up to the 46 that have changed in previous years through this legislative process, which is opaque, which steals the social debate. And the evidence you had last year -- don't we remember? How much does the memory fail? -- that they introduced that figure of the area pediatrics and that they had to introduce a reform to suppress it from the bill of accompaniment through the process in this House because if they were thrown all over the world, because they didn't talk to anyone. Is that how it's legislate? And besides, you have yourself in your draft accompaniment laws and in your own accompanying laws, in that constant and permanent amendment, over and over again, of the same laws — the Law on Prevention and Defence against Forest Fires, the Law on Land Mobility, the Law on Land, the Law on Internal Trade, those which amend each year, that top has modified laws—, the best example of which is not the way to legislate, which does not provide legal certainty—of course—but which also leads them to have to be constantly starting one year after another—or every six months, as was said earlier. The only thing that proves is that they have to do this constantly — a timely reform, a bug correction, introduce something that has been lost to them on the way — in two months! In two months, if there had really been a social dialogue with all the parties involved, there would be no reason to change a law which — I insist — came into force in August. We do not support this legislative process. When we had government responsibility as BNG we never used it, because it's a back door, because it's an accelerated mechanism that steals debate, especially in social but also political and parliamentary terms. And it does not contain with us to continue to process the legal order of this country by this way. And one last question. Do you know what really divides society? Income and social class, that's what divides people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u151	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. Mr Sánchez García has the floor for the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u152	Good afternoon. I think there's things that aren't good for frizzing, joking, confusing. The political emergency in the Spanish state is fascism, it's fascism with which you are committed, the Fascism of Vox with which you are committed. [[Murmurs.]] You are an anomaly in Western Europe, where there are democratic anti-fascist rights that put the health cord to the far right. You are an anomaly, a right that deals with Vox, who has a direct speech that goes against human rights, xenophobic! [[Murmurs.]] I don't know what you're laughing at, Mr. Fernández Prado, I don't know what you're laughing at. Look, on the day of the debate, on the debate of the general elections, that morning, Mrs. Monasterio went to harass some foreigners who were outside her country without a father and mother. The next day... you have no shame! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You have no shame! [[Murmurs.]] That's the political emergency! [[Murmurs.]] You're dealing with people who criminalize the minors who are in the foreign country without a father and mother. [[Murmurs.]] And the next day there were two assaults. They're playing with fire. You deal with those who claim frankness and deny the Law of historical memory. You're dealing with those who deny male violence. That's the truth. And you have to face this and you have to make a decision here. Will they deal with the far right? Will they defend those values, gentlemen of the People's Party? They're already doing it! Rectify! That's the political emergency. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, Mr. Rueda, you're dealing with the extreme right. The People's Party is dealing with the far right. [[Protests.]] And you have agreements... [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u153	Silence! Quiet, please! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u154	Well, that's a transcendent matter today that they should take it more seriously and not so frivolously. Though they seem to be quite comfortable with these ideas and dealing with people who defend these ideas. It must be because it's also a division of his party. Mrs. Paula Prado, soil monetaryization, I don't know why you generalize soil monetaryization, the possibility of soil monetaryization, and you come here saying that the public heritage of the soil is... well, see if I can talk! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u155	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u156	As if the public estate of the soil could only be used for housing! Look, not just a tertiary... but, please! [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] In the industrial tertiary soil, which you set as an example, of course you can yield yourself. And you can give in alone...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u157	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u158	...to give cheap soil for business initiatives, to co-work, to make a cooperative, etc. The public heritage of the soil serves that, as I said before. Like no, man! Like no! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Is not the public heritage of the land intended only for housing? All right! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The article! All right, all right! That's it! The article! [[Laughter]] Well, of course, we don't read the article! [[Laughter]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's it! All right! And you also said, "No, we're using this to modify things that seem to work wrong, for small mistakes, modifications, omissions... no, it's not true! You're lying, it's not true. The changes in the Rehabilitation Act are not due to errors and omissions, they are because the Government of the State has denounced the unconstitutionality of several precepts, and this was one of them. Because you'd rather take it off before they took it off. And it's better to withdraw the others than the State Government has signaled unconstitutional. Changes to the Land Law are not due to errors or omissions, they are a 180-degree change in certain policies that were decided here after two years of appearance at the Special Study Commission of the Sun Law. It would be decided, among other things, to withdraw what was already in force in the previous law, which was the moneyization of the ground, and now you will recover it. It's not a mistake what happens to the Natural Heritage Law, it's not a mistake. And once and for all that fifteen-year period.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u159	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u160	Tell me what's going on. Will it require repair of the damage or will it be the time to execute the administrative resolution? We expect that, because what we don't want is that they prescribe the damage caused in Touro, Monte Neme, in unrestaurated Louves or in San Fins, that you have tolerated. And finally, you propose the amendment of the Land Mobility Act to speak of model villages. I don't know if for these model villages they're starting if they're allocating public resources, human and economic resources, to dynamize them. If it's done, fine. But I understand that if this is called "model" it is because it must serve as an example for the future to extend throughout rural areas. So, in order to extend the whole rural model, what we need is economic and human resources...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u161	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u162	...that you've been cutting for years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u163	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. For the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Porritt.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u164	Thank you, President. Mrs. Prado, I'm glad you like my shirt. He has no name, he only talks about tax fraud. And I think in the fight against tax fraud, we've agreed on all groups, including the government. But since we're talking about fraud and fashion, I have to tell you that my pockets pay for them. [[Strong murmurers.]] And already going to administrative measures, I'm not going to make a detailed exposition of them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u165	Quiet, quiet! [[Strong murmurers.]] I just got here. If I know, I'll leave again. Let's all go easy. Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Prado, be quiet! [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] You're not in the use of the word. That's it! [[Protests.]] Silence! Silence! That's the debate. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u166	Thank you, Mr. President. As far as administrative measures are concerned, I am not going to report — as the speakers have done — the thirty laws that are being corrected. I'm going to talk about public employment. In the case of public employment, the Government's inability to manage transfer contests, public job offers and the processes of operation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u167	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u168	...and stabilisation of temporary staff, joined the permanence of the validity of Law 1/2012, which is only waived in respect of benefits due to temporary incapacity, in accordance with the state agreements. But it maintains the suspension of the provisions of the V Single Collective Convention on Workers of the Galician Union which are affecting problems of conciliation, especially on the health and occupational safety of many workers — especially of the social policy centres — by disregarding the recommendation set out in the report of the People's Valedor. This Public Employment Act was one of the five laws that were corrected through the accompanying laws every year. Once again, the Administration makes patches. But what I would have to do, and so demands from the union administrations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u169	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u170	...is to launch the design prescribed twelve years ago. [[Murmurs.]] The Together modifies the layouts eighth and ninth by creating twenty-two new scales, specialities, and assigns them in most cases a function that involves a box of tailors where everything is in place, which is arbitrary and which can result in functions that, out of regulated control, turn them into something of full discretion of the Administration, in that or any other similar content that relates to the previous functions. Finally, I want to mention measures relating to children's schools. With regard to the freeness of education in children's schools from 0 to 3 years of age after the second child, we believe that the number of children cannot be the determinant of freeness. We bet for free from the first child, but always depending on the economic capacity of family units. Women — as was said this morning — do not want to choose between being mothers and our career. We demand our right to be mothers or not, and also to decide how many children we want to have; a decision, that of the number of children, which depends on many questions: the pay divide, the implementation of conciliation measures, public daycare facilities, daycare centers, residences of older people and people with functional diversity, the assistance of dependency, etc. Women, when we make the decision to be mothers, we don't want to just give birth to a child or a child, we want to share their life, we want to be able to raise our children. The People's Party has declared itself an ecologicalist, a defender of feminist equality, but you agree with Vox. What will the Vox People's Party do? We know his hypocrisy. [[Murmurs.]] They stage a theatre in those autonomous communities in which they co-government or vote, but after that interpretation of Oscar, they abstain or vote in favour of the measures of their travel partner, Vox; measures that try to cut women's rights, our rights, or that dare to minimize one of the greatest problems that our society has, macho violence, that violates human rights and that this year — following official figures — has already taken the lives of more than 50 women. We demand that they not violate our rights, that they respect our decisions as well as the number of children we want to have. To finish, we absolutely reject this bill. We do so, firstly, because of the fraudulent use of this mechanism and we do it, secondly, because of its regressive fiscal policy, which not only involves tax fraud, social fraud, fraud against the Greeks and the Greeks, but also because it violates the guiding principles of our tax system as set out in Article 31 of the Constitution: the principle of universality, equality, progressiveity and also the principles that must refuse the action of any public administration: effectiveness, efficiency, legal certainty and legality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u171	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u172	You say it with your little mouth — I said it in the past full — The ex-administer, Ana Pastor, spoke of eliminating the property tax, reducing the inheritance tax, but his government partner...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Porritt, your time is up. [[Applause]] Voting of the legislative text
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u174	We shall proceed to the vote. Close the doors, please. We shall vote together with all the amendments to the whole of the various groups. We vote. Joint vote on all amendments to the draft law on tax and administrative measures for the year 2020. The vote was taken and resulted in the following: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. The amendments to the Tax and Administrative Measures Bill for the year 2020 are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u175	The amendments tabled are rejected and therefore this bill continues its parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-18-DSPG136.u176	Good night. The session is suspended until tomorrow at ten in the morning.
