ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. She has justified her inattentiveness to this plenary, Mrs. Rosa Quintana, for meeting in Brussels with the management of her counsellor's office. We're on the agenda of the plenary. Ditame debate and vote, delivered by Commission 3rd, Economic, Business and Budgets, on the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2020
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u2	The scheme we are going to follow is first the presentation of the ditam; then the joint debate of the states of expenditure and then the debate to the articulated. Amendmentes are kept alive, in particular by the Joint Group, the Group of the German Nationalist Block, the Group of the Left and the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Presentation of the Commission's opinion
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u3	The President of Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, Ms Maria Teresa Porritt Lueiro, has therefore given the floor to present the Commission's ruling.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u4	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Presentation of the Opinion on the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia by 2020. The bill was entered into Parliament's register on October 19, 2019. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 19 October 2019, issued its publication in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia. The amendments to the whole were qualified on 11 November 2019. Parliamentary groups of the Galician Socialists, the Left Joint Group, the Galego and Mixed Nationalist Block formulated amendments for the global return of general budgets and sections budgets, as well as non-devolutional amendments that transferred credits on applications from different sections or changed the total content of income and expenditure states. All amendments were discarded at the plenary session on November 18, 2019. The partial amendments detailed below were qualified on 22 November 2019. By the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, an amendment to the articulated and six amendments to the numerical states, which makes a total of seven amendments; by the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia, 75 amendments to the articulated and 624 amendments to the numerical states, a total of 699 amendments; by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Joint Group, 59 amendments to the articulated and 395 amendments to the numeric states — a total of 454 —; by the Galego Nationalist Group, 36 amendments to the articulated and 386 amendments to the numeric states, which makes a total of 422 amendments; by the Joint Parliamentary Group, 38 amendments to the articulated and 244 to the numeric states — a total of 282—. Commission 3rd, Economy, Farm and Budgets, at its meeting on 25 November 2019, appointed the following rapporteurs: by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Fr. Pedro Puy Fraga, as holder, and Mr. Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira as alternate; by the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia, Ms. María Terresa Porritt Lueiro, as holder, and Ms. Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo as alternate; by the Parliamentary Group of the Joint Left Group, Ms. Julia Torregrosa Sañudo as holder, and Mr. José Manuel Lago Peña as alternate; by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Ms. No. Presas Berginginos as holder, and Ms. Olalla Rodil Fernández as alternate; by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr. Francisco Casal Vidal as holder, and Mr. The session was held on 27 November 2019, and the report was finalized, which contains the recommendations made to the Commission, consisting of the adoption by most of the amendments made by the People's Parliamentary Group. It also recommended approval of paragraphs 55 and 61 of the Socialists' Parliamentary Group and 48 of the Parliamentary Group of the Left. With regard to the remaining amendments, the Ponencia, by the majority, recommended to the Commission the rejection of those presented to the joint joint parliamentary groups, the Galician Nationalist Bloc, the Left Joint Group and the Galician Socialists. The amendments to the statement of expenditure submitted by these groups were pending for the Commission. The Commission, meeting on 5, 9 and 10 December 2019, adopted by majority the report issued by the European Parliament and rejected the amendments tabled to the statement of expenditure by the opposition parliamentary groups. The number of amendments maintained for this plenary is as follows: by the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia, 73 amendments to the articulated and 624 amendments to the numerical states; by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Joint Group, 58 amendments to the articulated and 395 amendments to the numeric states; by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia, 36 amendments to the articulated and 386 amendments to the numerical states; by the Joint Parliamentary Group, 38 amendments to the articulated and 244 amendments to the numeric states. So there are still processing pending for plenary session 1,854 amendments. The ditam consists of an articulated text and a numerical state consisting of income, expenditure and financial states. The consolidated total budget amounts to EUR 11,821,575,337. The articulated text consists of a explanatory statement followed by 62 articles grouped into six titles, 16 additional provisions, 2 transitional provisions, 3 final provisions and 7 annexes. Title I refers to the approval of budgets and the modification of appropriations regime. Title II regulates staff costs. Title III shall be the one referred to in respect of obliging transactions and guarantees. Title IV regulates budgetary management. Title V is dedicated to the financing of local corporations, and Title VI refers to tax rules, which includes a single precept in relation to the criteria for the allocation of environmental damage tax and wind canon, since most of the tax regulation is contained in the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures, which will be dealt with in the plenary this day. The deadline for the future law and its date of entry into force is finally determined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Porritt. So we started with the joint debate on spending states. Expenditure statement set debate
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u6	First of all, you have the floor, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u7	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. "Human beings have a problem with domination. Man dominates nature, man dominates women, adults dominate little ones, and the rich dominate the poor. We have to get rid of this and start respecting it.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh These words, ladies and gentlemen, are part of the conclusions drawn by Aura and Mary, two activists of the Greek climate movement who participated in the social summit that took place in Madrid against climate change and in which far more interesting conclusions were drawn than those who were able to wake up the countries that had the responsibility to do something to remedy climate change. They keep saying Aura and Mary: "What can we do? The conclusions shared were to stop all new oil, gas and coal projects, although presented under the transition mask; start a revolution in transport, industry, construction and employment; an energy transition in agriculture, forestry and food; adapt territories to climate change; protect the most vulnerable populations; create practices and tools for resilience and resistance to the impact of climate change; ensure that social justice is present in the proposed solutions — the current economic system, in addition to causing climate change, has also caused levels of extreme poverty, hunger and economic inequality—." Ladies and gentlemen, these conclusions are part of the present, of an uncomfortable present, of a present which is not alien to either of us or of us, and which is part of the emergencies that are living in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, the emergencies arising from the climate situation, the environmental situation, are not alien to Galicia. And therefore they cannot be alien to Galicia's budgets by 2020 either. Climate emergency is part of our country's set of emergencies, with the social emergency and with the feminist emergency, but these budgets seem to fail to respond. The Union seems to consider, and since the majority of the people — we have seen it in the whole debate, we see it now also after the debate procedure of the amendments in committee — that the level of barriers to overcome is too high and therefore it is better to surrender. These budgets continue to represent, after the process and until this moment, a government that assumes the political defeat of Galicia in the face of its emergencies, that does not believe in its own country, that reinforces the idea of a Galicia that is at the end of the world and that can do nothing to remedy its fate. We, on the other hand, from En Marea if we believe in Greek society. And that's why we keep our amendments to the 2020 budgets presented by the Galician Union, some budgets that we understand are not right now to deal with these emergencies. We have a situation of economic contraction, more accused than the Spanish average, and therefore within our economic context, with an increase already in unemployment which is greater than that which occurs also within the state context. We have an industrial decadent situation — which will not fail to be discussed in this House in the coming months — that does not have a budgetary reflection either to be fought and to be redirected. We have a situation, ultimately, which, in socio-working terms, can be defined as a situation of less and less work, increasingly a work of worse quality and which is accompanied by social disprotection and a cut in public services of an essential nature, which gives rise to a situation of inexhaustible life-threatening precariousness. This vital precariousness, which we have often discussed in this House too, gives rise to data such as the AROPE rate signaling a number of people at the threshold of poverty and social exclusion well above 600,000 people and more than 34,000 households without income, or the particularly dramatic idea that 1.6% of the population is placed on the severe material shortage in our country. So, we have a complicated situation, which gets complicated every day more and to which budgets give no solution. The economic decline, the more precarious work and the more dismantling of the true state of well-being, of the true social state — in which we are interested, of social autonomy — is what causes, in our view, a situation of multiple emergencies. And this doesn't mean these budgets don't have a plan for Galicia. They have it, but we think that's a plan that doesn't suit the social majority of this country. There are a number of neoliberal mantras that repeat themselves in these budgets and that have not changed during processing: the reduction in the weight of public expenditure; the drop in taxes on the rich — which necessarily means having fewer resources to be able to meet social needs — and more privatization and increase, as a result of the whole previous one, of social inequalities; the mantra of economic efficiency, which implies abandoning and leaving behind impoverished or aged areas, or the closure of essential public services and neglecting services that are not measured in money or measured in numbers but should be measured with people and in relation to well-being; a supposed non-intervention in the economy and in the market which also leads to concern over the industrial and economic crises that our country experiences. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, in a situation, in a model, we are concerned only about creating the basic conditions for the squilling of the territory and the policy of our natural resources, which is accompanied, in addition, by an unfair fiscal policy of revenue and expenditure. This policy is perfectly definable as antisocial and it is planned in budgets which, on a macro level, as you know, are carried out through important concessions to higher incomes and large corporations, with reductions of selective taxes to the rich who prejudice the population's whole — and all of this without compensation of any kind — and, on the side of the expenditure, with a reduction in the budgets that hit public services and job creation, so it's impossible to reassess the deep damage caused by the cuts imposed in the last decade. There is a tax reduction for the rich that implies less taxes and implies tax injustice, lack of redistribution of income-richness. Every time you lower your taxes on the rich, what you're doing is leaving in your pocket more money, money that you could go to redistribut, to generate opportunities for social justice, something that will not happen after your approach so far in these budgets. I want to put the three basic examples. In succession tax this year there are tax exemptions for all those people who inherit from a parent up to 1 million euros. Is that fair? We think it's not fair, because it's a manifestation of wealth, and that assumes that those who have the most will have even more to the detriment of the whole population. The wealth tax has already dropped last year and that's what I assumed the 6,000 richest people in Galicia had more money left in their pocket. We tried during the processing of these budgets a legal amendment — that we debate in this House and that which is opposed to the majority popular — to recover the type of recording so that those who have most share in solidarity with the population set, something which has been denied by the insolidary majority of the People's Party, and so now we have less resources to make social policies. And finally it's also the idea of understanding that there are certain tax benefits that also assume waivers of income that are not admissible, and among them is the purchase of second houses in summer places, as happens, for example, in Barriers, as happens in Perbes, or how it may happen in Mine or on the Island of Arousa, that we think there are no lack of real estate investments for more than I did in this People's Party. Finally, we also denounce that there is no correlation on the part of these budgets in the fight against tax fraud. 22% of our gross domestic product is a submerged economy, compared to the European average, which is 18.2%. And we don't have tools and personal or material means to effectively combat all this. Nor is it good for us, in macro-economic terms — which have not been contradicted because there has not been a significant amendment to this situation — the whole budget for essential public spending functions, with regard to health care, old age, health care, the family and the most serious situations for the whole of citizenship. I would like to remind you that the average expenditure in the European Union in these functions, particularly in health and education, is 7% and 4.5 per cent, while in the case of Greek, it is 6 per cent and 3.6 per cent. And if this trap doesn't come, we've got the budget trap, but we don't run, which is a classic. I won't notice this too much for lack of time, but I want to remember two examples that I don't resist. First of all — and here, with the Economic Counsellor in front of it — the R & D budgets, which have been budgeted and which have not been executed in recent years. During the period of the Feijóo era more than 240 million euros have been spent on research, development and innovation, EUR 240 million!, when we already have some budgets that are nearly half of R & D investment in the state and let us not say already about the European Union's ratio. And in terms of employment, the situation is truly scandalous. From 2011 until 2018 they left without running 245 million euros in active employment policies. What does that mean? This means that, even of the budgets that we are going to see approved after today, an important part — and, in the case of functions that have to do with active employment policies, about 40% — will be smoke, because it will never be implemented. It also occurs in R & D, where almost 25% of them will smoke because they won't get to run either. For these reasons, we believe that these budgets live on the edge of Galician reality, of a reality that is marked by three emergencies. First of all, we have the environmental emergency, although, as we see it, the Union does not consider giving it the importance it really has. If we consider the current expenditure situation, it is enough to check how much we report on all those items for action against climate change and expenditure to combat it, which does not amount to EUR 450 million; that is to say 4,3 % of the total budget. We also live in a situation of feminist emergency because of inequality, which is obvious, between women and men — not only at the wage level but at other levels of life. And yet, the funds intended, for example, for the protection and support of women who suffer from gender-based violence turn out to be from the least growing shares this year, which was supposed to increase public spending in social areas. Specifically, the increase is 1.22%, much below what increases the budget set, and it goes from 14.1 to 14.27 million euros. We try our partial amendments — as I shall now show — to increase these amounts and to improve this situation. We'll see what the People's Party votes for. This increase currently shown in accounts for us is not significant, especially when you consider what has already been executed in 2018. The industrial crisis, which advocates the social emergence of unbearable unemployment — and it is already functioning, as a boarding pass for the new immigration — is not a problem for the People's Party's Union, which goes from 925 million to 273 million in 2018, and that by 2020 it falls 16% again. I'm sorry, there's a problem here with the figures, I was referring to the climate emergency. I was talking specifically about the industrial crisis as a advocate for social emergency, and this is also proven by the contrast between the 2018 and 2019 budgets. The game for business development has fallen by 1.28%, with which we can hardly go back to that industrial decline when budgets decline. The third of the emergencies is the climate emergency, which calls for a change in mobility towards collective and electric transport — whether by train, tram or bus. This is also ignored by the Galician Union, which continues to think, as in the 20th century, that infrastructure is synonymous only with roads. This is the game that you've seen the most reduced your budget. Since 2009, it has fallen by 70% — now if the number is well given — from 925 million to 273 million in 2018, and that by 2020 it falls again by almost 16%. However, ladies and gentlemen, the 2020 budgets presented by the Union — which have not improved at all during the parliamentary process — are a denial of the economic and social reality in which we live. They take on a defeatist and pessimistic view of the territory, and they ignore the climate, social and feminist emergencies in which we are immersed. On the contrary, they simply make of Jacob, and of the fiscal gifts that they keep, the solution to any evil that our country lives. We think that this situation must be shifted by a budgetary alternative based on the values that has the society itself in which we live. Galicia is a feminist, ecological and solidarityist society. It is ultimately fair and therefore deserves other different budgets according to their values. And that's why today we present approximately 250 amendments that move around, within each match, 500 million euros. Even within the limits of this budgetary debate, we believe that they would improve attention to the emergencies of our country, which the People's Party is committed to ignoring. I shall now refer, in the rest of the intervention, to concrete games; concrete games that improve, in particular in each section, each of these emergency ratios in which we are living and which we think should be met. So while we're still in time, we call them a reflection before the votes. Starting with the feminist emergency, the comprehensive actions against gender violence should benefit from an increase in departure, in our opinion, as well as from housing resources. The first thing women need that suffer from gender-based violence, once they institutionalize their situation, once they report, is to be able to get out of the environment of violence, and it is therefore necessary to allocate resources and increase resources for this purpose. This is also true of compliance with the provisions of the State Covenant against Gender Violence, and that is why we are devoting two parties to this purpose. There is also the need, especially intense, for the labour integration of women victims of gender-based violence, because we know that behind gender-based violence there are often economic violence, economic dependence, which limits the chances of leaving the place where they live with aggressor and victim, and therefore it is especially necessary to carry out this intervention for labour integration. It is also necessary — and during this past month we want to see it through specific campaigns — to point out that there are areas of violence in the sports field. I mean, it's sectoral areas that are not yet properly addressed. That's why we reflect on a start the support of sports federations, in the movement of women's sport, to visualize gender violence and to identify the necessary struggle against gender violence also in the field of sport practice. I don't want to give up at this point either to something that in our opinion is riding between the feminist emergency and the social emergency. It's a decision that had to do with health care and the dismantling of the rural environment as well. I'm referring to the closure of the station of the Verín Hospital. Ladies and gentlemen, the decision to close the station at the Hospital de Verín — which will force, already, all the women in the region to give birth in Ourense, and which thus increases, on occasion, a risk to their health, the mother's life and integrity and the baby's unnecessarily— constitutes an act of institutional violence against women, and an act of health abuse, in addition to an act of strangulation of the absolutely unbearable rural environment. This decision — a decision that has been controversial since the beginning and which has given rise to the fact that, during the last fifteen days we have seen how the Council of Galicia has been erraticly seeking arguments to justify the unjustifiable, which is that we were faced with the strangulation of a public service in rural areas and a maltreatment of women for fundamentally economic reasons — has to be reverted, and has to be done. First it was said that there was a problem here that health professionals didn't practice enough births and that for that reason they lost expertise and that's why they had to close the service of the parent, because it would give women more risks during childbirth because of the lack of expertise of the professionals. Then it was said that it wasn't the problem, that the problem was that there was a low number of births and that, therefore, they didn't give the figures to have the parent open. Then it was said that it wasn't any of these problems, and that really the problem was that there were no pediatricians. What are we left with? What is the basis for the decision to close the parent's office and pediatric emergencies at the Verín Hospital? They should give an explanation, a definitive explanation, to the citizenry on this subject, a citizen who, by the way, concentrates himself at the doors of this House claiming the only possible solution, which is the immediate and unconditional reopening of the parish service and pediatric emergencies at the Hospital de Verín. And that's the only solution that fits. All the rest are, in the best of cases and assuming that in the Galician Union they were now benign and benign, simple patches to remedy the situation. And I say "simple patches" because the call for two squares for the Pediatric Service is actually masking it is that the arguments used for closing were not real, since it is intended to come up with a solution that is not consistent with the problem that was said to be there. Secondly, you can't take out those two squares with the profile they're drawn with, in a temporary and absolutely precarious way, without people competing with them knowing if they're going to be there one day, another day in Ourense, another day in the boat, no incentives of any kind in their own professional career, etc. There are no shady solutions to the structural problems our country has, which has health in the rural environment of our country. The only thing that fits are solutions that end with the precariousness of the workers and the workers in the public health services. And this, by the way, is what six judgments of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia were made in relation to the organization of the Pediatric Service and its guards at the Valdeorras Boat Hospital throughout 2019. They said it was illegal the way the Sergas Power organized the Pediatric Service at the Valdeorras Boat, which was not legal to send the time and not send the fixed ones, which was not legal to those who made the guards there if they paid less. And, therefore, he forced in six judgments, ladies and gentlemen, to reorganize the service to meet the principles of legality and objectivity to provide the service properly. We continue to wonder at this moment whether this ruling by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia was what then prompted the closure of the Verín parish service, in order to try to save the costs that would come from fulfilling the implementation of the Bark's jurisprudence on the Verín service. This would demonstrate, and certainly demonstrates, that we are faced with a problem again of cuts, of being cigarettes and cigarettes with public spending when it comes to caring for women, when it comes to caring for children who have just been born, when it comes to caring for essential rural services. And that, for us, is unacceptable. And for that reason, I hope you will vote in favour of our amendment in this respect, because we believe that it enriches not only the budgets but, above all, it satisfies fundamental rights. Because the people who live in Verín and live in their country, who live in the Oresan countryside, pay taxes just like you, who probably live in the city. And therefore there can be no citizens of first and second depending on where they live. There is a need for a minimum of equity in access to health care. There is a need for a minimum level of equity in access to services of an essential nature. That's why we don't deal with this situation. We have two specific games that could be used to reverse this situation, one related to the replacement of staff paintings and one related to the Women's Health Plan. Either one can be used to budget immediate replenishment of parenting services and pediatric emergencies. Don't wait for this anymore. It's also part of the social emergency block, ladies and gentlemen, the general improvement of public health. It is necessary to demarket public health. Unmarketing it means reverting to the public services that have been privatised or are in private hands. Because with regard to privatizations — part of which was a constant in judicial proceedings and criminal convictions during the past decade, or in recent decades, not in the last two decades — we have seen that after privatizations not only the cuts came from the work precariousness of those who provided the service, but also political corruption, corruption associated precisely with privatization processes. We say cuts and precariousness because, of course, if there are certain public resources and services are privatized, a part of these public resources must be intended to satisfy a private enterprise's business profit. And that business benefit is the cost of cutting the quality of the service and precaution of the working conditions of those who provide it. So nothing better than going back to the public to end this situation. That's why we anticipate within our amendments the reversal to the public of the service of Povervisa. We thought it was the ideal time, and so we denounced it here in this House. The People's Party stood against it. We continue to undermine this situation so that an essential public service can be demarketed. We also carried out a proposal for the provision of life-supported ambulance services and medical ambulances so that there will not be repeated situations like that of the deceased person near Lalín waiting for him to come and pick up an ambulance that didn't arrive in time because it was not available. We believe that with available resources it is necessary to provide more means for the entire population to have equal access to health care and to have more opportunities to survive a serious accident. We're talking about essential things, ladies and gentlemen. We're also talking about the replacement of staff paintings. The Incidental Nurses collective in Loita pointed out as a collective that up to this time was invisible and that was the bearer of the highest prevalence of precariousness in the Public Administration. Labour precariousness was no longer the sole heritage of the private company, something was done regularly in the public administration — particularly in the health administration. And it's a duty for everyone to take care of who cares for us. For that reason, we have a share with a specific provision to improve and provide stability for this situation where thousands of nursing professionals live in our country. There are also measures that are basic. Last year in the implementation of the hemodynamics at 24 hours in Lugo, but it seems that Ourenses are in the third region and therefore have no or no access to those services. We want to expand health rights, and with the budgets that there are, we can extract games to implement hemodynamics, just as we want to expand new rights, like a oral health plan or the necessary mental health plan that is so deficient in public allocation. There is also specific attention to endometriosis, which never deserves health care with a well-equipped strategy budgeted and which gives rise to the fact that many women continue to suffer from a situation that should not be suffering from specific attention, which at the moment is not. We also have a number of improvements, a global plan for primary care improvement. Over the past year, there have been previous budgets for these, numerous demonstrations and strikes in the public sector, the SOS Public Health Platform, the CAP collective standing in the war, etc.; that is, a group of health groups that did not ask for any wage improvements, that the only thing they asked was to have enough time to care for patients. And to have more time means that ratios, primary care coupons, are smaller, which means more professional, more provision of squares to properly address the population set. Because, if there's not enough time, sometimes there's not a good diagnosis and, as a result, then the problems that could be initially addressed in primary care are compounded. It's not the only health area we wanted to talk about. I want to end, however, within the block of well-being, with the necessary development of the Welsh law of worthy death. We have presented a bill for the decriminalization of euthanasia, but there is the Welsh law about worthy death which is not developed. It requires material means to do this and we therefore contain this year a specific game for this. There's also a need to increase media for oncology units and day hospitals in comarcial hospitals. We think it is necessary not only to humanize public health but also to guarantee equity in health care throughout the country. We also propose, through some amendments, the start of the construction of public residences for the elderly in places where they need them, and also familiar meeting points, because we think that all of this results in the benefit and increase of well-being. It is also part of the social emergency — in the field of education — an education for all. Before talking about employment, we have to talk about education for the best education of those who will be young and young, workers and workers, tomorrow, through a development of the Greek university scholarship system with enough funds to really meet the needs of the Greek families who need them. And we also have a specific game for the recovery of primary school hours and the increase in teachers — and also in secondary school —. Last week, there was a teacher's strike, which did not demand payroll improvements, called for more attention time for puppetry, more attention time for children and girls to provide them with higher-quality education. We pay attention to them, and we pay attention to these amendments that seek precisely more time available to provide higher quality, more individualized and more attentive education to the needs of each child and every child. Education must also cover innovation at the top level. That's why we also put together a series of pre-doctoral aids to "enhancing the recruitment of R & D+i," and also the creation of the Higher Centre for Innovation and Textile Design of Galicia in Artixo. As a employment plan, as cross-cutting measures that can promote employment in our country, we think it is necessary to end the precariousness of work. That is why we are talking about the employment programme on a separate basis, the special programme on women's employment and wage equalization. Ladies and gentlemen, we have 29 percent of the gap between women and men. It's necessary to get over it. It's necessary by law, but the law alone doesn't solve the problems. It is necessary to supply it budgetally so that the strategy described in the law will have real effectiveness.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u8	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u9	I'm gonna finish it, yeah. There is also a need for a job emergency plan for young people and for the eradication of precarious people. Emigration remains a recurring theme because it remains a real problem in youth under 35 years of age, which is the future of our country. I am, rather, the present of our country and they are making their present out because here they have no opportunity. We need to commit ourselves to them and to them and, therefore, to meet those needs. Also in the fight against work precariousness, apart from labour reforms, it is necessary to strengthen inspection, it is necessary to end the fallacy and work mortality, which are associated with the conditions of precariousness. And unfortunately Galicia is in line with work mortality. We also contain specific splits so that young people emigrated can return and have opportunities for job insertion. As far as housing is concerned, we believe that there is no real housing policy in the Galician Union and therefore we have developed an ambitious programme for the creation of the public housing park in rent scheme, for the rehabilitation of housing in certain urban areas and for a plan to combat evictions. We believe, moreover, that it is necessary for the statute — even if not yet recognised — to extend rights that have to do with the right not only to a decent housing but to meet dignified living conditions. I'm talking about energy supply for those decent living conditions. And that's why we're talking about the improvement of housing isolation against energy poverty and the financing of the electric social tariff. We also talk about the cohesion of the rural environment as something essential, and we talk about something that is as basic as the universalization of the broadband in the rural environment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u10	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Your time is up, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u11	My time is up. I leave for the next intervention the references to the climate emergency, which is the third of En Marea's cross-sectional action axes, which are in favour of these amendments, which I will therefore refer to on the second turn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u12	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u13	Well, good morning to all and all. While we're here today, I don't know if debate or succession of monologues -- we'll see it at the end of it -- I want to highlight and start remembering that there are neighbors and neighbors of Verín who are currently traveling to Santiago de Compostela. And this isn't a pleasure trip, it's not a fun trip, they don't come to Xacobeo and they don't even take a look at the government, but they come here because if you're playing with the most important people we have, which is the right to health. [[Applause]] And today they come to tell the lords and ladies of the People's Party that they don't bring with their lies, they demand that the service of the delivery room and pediatric guards be restored, because Verín doesn't close. [[Applause]] And I want to take advantage of this intervention to move you in my own name and also in the whole BNG respect and all admiration and all support, because the struggle that you are carrying forward to the neighbors and neighbors of Verín and of all its territory is an example of dignity, unity, defense of social rights; and also a cry in defense of a rural that doesn't want to disappear as long as we see Galician Union, which said that this was going to be the legislation of the rural, what you're doing is dismantling basic services like that of health. And we're also seeing who puts women's health and children's rights at risk. Whoever puts them at risk is the People's Party with its cuts in public health. [[Applause]] And we have an example that I can't ignore right now: the serious facts we saw last week when we see that having to go to Ourense to give birth can assume that many women have to give birth again on the road, when there are medical personnel who act with responsibility and who say: No, this delivery can't happen on a road, it has to happen in a hospital because here we have a parity. And of course, we can't stop overlooking this serious fact: that, after a normal delivery, after going to court for a pediatrician, the decision to take that mother's son out of her arms right after birth, move it only in an ambulance for Ourense, move it to her later, have her two hours, two hours!, sit down in a chair with a bleeding, and tell us that nothing happens. It's just that this isn't normal! I've already told you that we're asking for an investigation because we're talking about very serious facts, and you can't normalize a violence that has been practised since the system against women. [[Applause]] We, of course, are not going to normalize such serious facts. So I think it would be important today too to take advantage of this morning's day to reflect on what will be the vote position the People's Party will have on the demand it's making the entire Verín district. And we want to ask them to reflect, not to use the absolute majority as a parliamentary roller and to listen to what is unanimously asking for the entire region of Verín. Regardless of their political colors, they're saying it's a mistake to close the paritory and suppress the pediatric guards; and they therefore acknowledge their error and rectify it. We ask them not to allow a situation like the one we saw last week to repeat again in the future. I can tell you that neither I nor any of the people we are in this room -- I'm sure -- we'd like to have to live a situation like the one that had to live a woman, her partner and her son last week in Verín. And to prevent this situation from happening again depends also on the button that we tighten this week, tomorrow even when we demand that this decision be rectified to close the poison paritory. Of course, we ask them not to look elsewhere, to set aside party interests, to defend women's right to health, to defend children's rights; to defend Sergas' own protocols and the performance that the World Health Organization calls for in relation to childbirth, and therefore to recover services; to no longer to lie, to defamation, to attack professionals, and to rectify them, to show that they respect the people of this country and to listen to them. [[Applause]] Of course, they show greater sensitivity than they're showing right now, because it's intolerable what's going on with Verín. Of course, all the support and all the solidarity of the BNG! [[Applause]] We are fully involved in the debate on these budgets. And the fact is that we came here with the impression that this, more than a debate, was a paradigm of "non-debate", an example of how far the People's Party has become this Parliament as an appendix to the Government, an empty box of contents. Of course, what we don't see is the real will of neither dialogue nor sharing diagnostics, nor, above all, to put solutions on the table that allow a correction in those areas where we see that the country needs another type of policy. And we regret that the People's Party has no will to reach agreements. What would any citizen of this country think if he had really had an opportunity to know how the debates in this Parliament were going, where we have been debating an important law here for two months, such as the Budgets Act, which had amendments to return, which had transversal amendments, which had partial amendments, where there were presentations meetings, committee meetings, where there were debates in the plenary, now also debates in committee, and that the final outcome of all this debate is that the People's Party does not agree to change a single issue of budgets unless it comes from the ranks of the People's Party itself, does not accept a single amendment to the opposition in which it refers to states of expenditure? Well, I am convinced that what I would think is that you do not know what we are in this Parliament, that you become a democratic institution in which you represent the plurality that exists in Greek society in an appendix that is unable to reach agreements and in which there is no will to move anything at all. We, of course, faced this debate constructively, knowing what the limits were but also with the conviction that these budgets could be improved. And what we found was a wall of political sovereignty of the People's Party, which does not accept a single amendment from the BNG, nor in the transversals nor in the partials, despite the fact that there are obviously many things to improve these budgets. The best evidence that there were a lot of things to improve was that even the People's Party itself has to amend them. But they don't accept them because, ultimately, you want to show that they have the only revealed truth and that, apart from what the People's Party says, there's no proposal that makes sense. And I don't think that gets into the head of any good person in this country. So we're going to keep our vote against some budgets that they portray is a failed government, that has no ideas or plans for the future, that leaves us a Galician much worse than that of ten years ago and that, instead of wanting to admit their mistakes, it's afraid to continue with a line in which the country is in worst condition to meet the challenges we have ahead. We have budgets that portray a government that has no ideas to deal with the industrial crisis, in which there is no kind of strategic impulse either for innovation or for science or for the closure of our productive sectors. Public services continue to deteriorate. He's not betting on changing a wrong health policy that we're seeing as having grave consequences for a fundamental right as is the right to people's health. Neither do they have effective measures either to cope with the demographic crisis or to address social inequality, nor do they have the serious problem that is happening in our society with the deterioration of our language and culture. And far less is abated in these budgets any measure that indicates that the Galician Union will take the issue of climate change seriously, because even the amendments presented by the People's Party — for example, in the field of climate emergency — reflect the real importance that you give to this issue. These are some budgets in which nothing is collected on this matter, and the big contribution the People's Party makes with an amendment is 40,000 euros for a study. This is the rigor, and this is the seriousness that they face a problem with the dimension of this climate emergency. We humbly tried to make contributions that were needed to improve these budgets. We presented 386 partial amendments that wanted to put in place an agenda to defend social rights, an agenda to put Galicia to produce, an agenda to defend rights and freedoms, an agenda to defend health, education and public services that are the guarantee of the exercise of rights. But what we found was a People's Party who only knows how to say "no", who votes "no" to a plan to improve primary care, a plan to reduce waiting lists, or to provide medicalized ambulance with advanced vital support districts like Lalin, such as the Lower Mine or Valdeorras; a PP that votes "no" to a youth employment plan and a battle against precariousness; a PP that votes "no" to end with the energy policy of electricity and that we can move forward towards a Greek electric tariff, a tariff for electrointensives that allows Alcoa or Ferroatlantic workers to eat the peaceful tower. The PP votes "no" to an agreement for the fair transition to the Bridges. The PP votes "no" to devote more funds to science, innovation, so that we can develop a research career without precaution in our country. The PP votes "no" to build more infantry schools, day centers and public residences. The PP votes "no" to devote more funds to the fight against macho violence. The PP votes "no" to the creation of a nearby German train or votes "no" to measures to order our mountain and fight forest fires. And it could continue to repeat the 386 times in which the People's Party votes 'no' to all of the proposals we make, and that it shows us that it comes to this debate with pride and uses its absolute majority in an absolutist way, confusing the debate with a roller and, of course, demonstrating its inability to reach agreements on aspects that really serve to address some of the issues that are currently worrying about citizenship. And usually when you act like that, it's because you don't have real arguments to be able to defend these budgets. He doesn't want to go into the bottom because he knows that the government's proposed budgets are, more than stories, a tale of lies and propaganda. It's a story that started with a chapter, which is now not repeated so much: that it was something exceptional to present the budgets. It seemed that Junta was making a single fact — I just don't know if in the world — that it was a government that has the absolute majority of budgets in mind. And then we saw that the presentation of budgets was in total normality with what is happening in the rest of the Spanish state, where there are just two autonomous communities — by the way, governed by the People's Party — that decided not to submit the budgets. The second story that we have repeatedly insisted on is that Galicia is better than ten years ago thanks to the miracles and works of the People's Party Government. However, as we have already said in the debate of taking into account these budgets — and they have not been able to rebut it from the ranks of the People's Party — if we adhere to indicators that have to do with quality of life, wellbeing, available incomes, what we are seeing is that in these ten years there has been a reversal and that have worsened the living conditions of the Greeks and the Greeks. There we have the fact that we have fewer jobs than ten years ago, there we have the fact that we have a very low level of occupation and data that are makeup because in Galicia we have a very low rate of activity, and also because of the fact — that you deny — that there is a very serious problem of migration, with more than 200,000 people emigrated in a decade. We also have a fact that we should all be concerned about, and that's how much more and more precarious employment is. Having a job today for a lot of people doesn't mean a guarantee of a decent life, and there's a new social category that's the workers and the poor workers. By the way, something that even points out reports that I imagine will not question the People's Party, such as the latest FOESSA report, which speaks of 12.3% of the people who work in Galicia find themselves in social exclusion; and 3.6% in severe poverty. And as this happens, what's the reason? The reason isn't that we don't have more wealth, the reason is that that wealth is getting worse and worse. And, in fact, what we're looking at is how the incomes of the job don't stop falling while the incomes of the capital are getting bigger and bigger. And there's a fact that it's exceptional in our country, and it's the fact that just corporate income represents more than income from work. This is a very clear example of how what is happening is actually a robbery to the workers and workers in this country, because what is being privileged is the accumulation of capital in very few hands. [[Applause]] So what we think is that, in the face of this situation, we have to go to the causes and we have to act. And the FOESSA report itself pointed to the causes in a very clear way. He said that the financial crisis, the loss of employment and the austerity policies experienced in the last decade were those that pushed this unequal growth and those that are implementing these social inequalities. So in order to act, it would be necessary to change fiscal policy, and also to change the economic policy that this government is making. And you'll have to take care of that youth. By the way, this very week — I think it was yesterday — opened a newspaper like Vigo Lighthouse telling us that the first salary of a Greek fell to 800 euros, 100 less than before the crisis. Action will be needed to ensure that young people have decent opportunities and wages and that they do not lose purchasing power. We will have to act against the inequalities that make women increasingly have a precarious situation in the labour market, we will also have to fight against these social inequalities. And it's clear that Galicia is late for many of the trains that are taking place in our environment. It would be a time not only to open a debate about the need to turn risk into a public wage for labour and social inclusion that will enable us to effectively fight poverty. The third chapter of this report on the budgets of the PP is that, thanks to the economic measures that contain the budgets, we will be able to ensure that the recession that everyone is talking about doesn't touch Galicia. And here's the only economic proposal the People's Party has to reduce to Xacobeo 2021. There's a miracle that portrays these budgets: the miracle is that, while all international bodies say we're going to slow down the economy that can be an anterior one of a new recession, Junta says that we're an island and that nothing that happens around us is going to affect our country thanks to that impulse of the Xacobeo. And they have to talk about those problems that we are having right now and that affect what has to be the economic muscle of any country, such as its industrial production, and what are the tools to be able to intervene in the economy. And then we see that there is a very important responsibility of the People's Party, because it has allowed Galicia to be in worse conditions today to be able to face an economic crisis. The People's Party is responsible for the collapse of the Greek financial system, the People's Party is responsible for this decade for the loss of galleguity of important companies in key economic sectors. The People's Party is responsible for the industrial dismantling that is taking place in this country. [[Applause]] In our past year, we saw companies close like Isowat or like Poligal. In R we have a thousand jobs at risk; in UK, 400 jobs in Ourense. And the Galician Union is missing, as if the economic problems of this country weren't with it. We also have a serious crisis in the naval sector, as much as they try to cover up their responsibilities. There is a crisis in Ferrol, where the PP also has its share of responsibility because for a long time they promised the frigates but they were delaying their recruitment for the pure interests of Morenés — we do not forget history because we have memory. [[Applause]] And they also have responsibilities in Vigo, where they dropped Vulcan and where Barreras is still in a situation of uncertainty about what their future will be, and they can't be profiled. That is why we are making proposals in these areas that want us to be in Galicia to bet on industrial development and to meet the emergencies we have at the moment. And then we propose that there be a development network of the auxiliary automotive industry in the Ourense districts. In the naval there are promises that you have made for many years and that you do not fulfill, like the repair center of the ship of Vigo or an integral complex of the shipbuilding in the Ferrol River. There is also a need for concrete measures in those regions that are having a higher level of unemployment — we could talk about Ferrol, we can talk about the Death Coast — but we are also concerned about the economic downturn that is taking place in Vigo and that would need action by the Government — hence, beyond the Christmas lights, because we think that competing in that area will not solve the problems that Vigo has. And, of course, we also understand that the Galician Union has to get wet in the set-up of a fair transition process to the Bridges. What can't be that, in the face of such an important challenge, the only thing you're looking for is how to throw balloons out and that in these budgets there's no provision that allows you to face with guarantees a process that is not easy, that we think requires a lot of debate and of course involvement by all administrations. But we don't understand how the People's Party is going to vote against an amendment from the BNG so that there's a fair transition agreement for the Bridges and that the Greek administration itself also provides resources for the development of a new economic strategy in that region. Well, we get to this point, and what we see is that these people's stories, these empty budgets of content, they have no strategy against relocations, they have no strategy against the industrial crisis, they don't have any strategy to support small and medium-sized self-employed people or the trade sector -- that we're seeing as they close a lot of shops every day in our country -- Neither is it to address a fair and much less energy transition to put in place a change in an aspect that we think is key to the future of our country, which is to turn science and innovation into an element of development in Galicia. [[Applause]] And here, of course, the People's Party can make all the propaganda you want, but the data is very clear. And we see how what Junta did during these ten years was to put Galicia in worse conditions on the ground of innovation and on the ground of science. In fact, today we have a lower expenditure on R & D+i in relation to our GDP than we had ten years ago. During this period, half of the innovative companies have disappeared and we continue to have researchers and researchers who, for science sake, continue to bet on working in this country but who, of course, are in a precarious situation that does not guarantee the development of an investigative career and which, in a very important part, is causing us to see how these researchers and researchers end up working outside our country. And we think it's important to deal with this situation. We proposed in the debate of the state of the Greek nation a pact for science and innovation, and the People's Party voted no. We proposed to allocate more funds to R & D+i in the cross-sectional amendment, and the People's Party also votes 'no'. And today we come here with amendments that want to address areas that we consider to be key, such as ending precariously by developing the research career or making a bet to capture talent. And we have examples of how it can be done and how it can be done successfully. There's the ICREA, there's the Ikerbasque. It's about developing policies tailored to our reality, but they learn from these successful experiences. They have the opportunity to vote yes and give a chance to researchers and researchers in our country, who are many and, in addition, of very high quality. And we've moved on to the fifth chapter of this budget story, which is the theory we've been listening to for ten years that the Galician Union practices social politics that are no longer social in the world, here I would say of the galaxy. There's no government in all the galaxy that defends social rights so much. However, what we see is just the opposite. What we see is how these ten years have assumed a major deterioration of health, how we continue to have precarious social services, how there are fundamental rights, such as housing, which are wet paper and how the Galician Union does not act. And, of course, we see that there are no performances that allow us to turn back to a situation that is known and that, as I have very little time left, I'm not going to touch it any more. We, modestly believe, can change much of the social policy that makes this government. And what's wrong is to keep repeating the same mantra to justify cuts and privatizations of public services, which is what the Galician Union is doing. That's why we make proposals such as that there is a plan to improve primary care, so that we actually hire more staff in primary care, so that there may be multidisciplinary services that help download primary professionals. It's important that the gender perspective be applied to health care in our country, because there are still problems in health care for women. There's a demand for the creation of an endometriosis unit, we also need to improve the conditions of the mistresses, that is, there's a very important work to be done in this field that needs public resources, such as those we propose to be incorporated through our amendments. We believe that it would be a very important act for the People's Party, that the People's Party, at the moment, to accept amendments in this area, in which we are proposing a plan of shock against waiting lists, that a plan of mental health care and suicide prevention should be put in place, which is actually betting itself by better health emergency services — and I believe that we must highlight, after all that has happened in this country, that the People's Party should not vote again against an ambulance with advanced vital support for Lalín and that there are other areas that also need it, such as the Low Mint, Valdeorras, Bergantinos or The Barbanza. At the same time, it is urgent to rescue Vigo's public health from privatization processes and strengthen the comarcas hospitals. [[Applause]] So we could say what's going on in education, where we see how we're going on with teacher cuts. We're still with teachers and teachers who have less time to prepare their classes. And it would be necessary to go to a change, so really, after all these years of cuts, education is shielded as a fundamental right and a bet by the public university as a space of formation and also of creation of knowledge and of motor of social development. In our amendments, what we propose is to regain the teaching hours, as teachers and teachers are being asked; something, by the way, that has already been done in Navarre, Euskadi, Cantabria, Canary Islands, Andalusia, Asturias and Extremadura. It can be done, it's unique and exclusively a question of political will.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u14	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u15	We want the universal loan of textbooks to be recovered. We want him to move towards the direct management of school dining rooms and we also want a university that stops being precarious. That is why we are calling for an improvement in the funding plan for this year 2020 of EUR 35 million. And finally, because I wanted to mention two aspects that are very important to us. One is the need to make a greater effort in the fight against macho violence. We are seeing that such violence is not over, that resources are not enough and that a greater provision would be needed to develop the Galician Law against gender-based violence. We make that bet on our amendments. We believe that, after everything that has been going on in this country and the serious social problem of masculine violence, it would be important that, at least here, we had some agreement. And finally, the last chapter of this story goes from their lies to justify the attacks on the Greek, the language of this country itself, and also our culture. Please note whether it is serious that the Council of Europe continues to show that the Galician Union is pursuing a policy contrary to the normalization of the Galician language. I have even told them since the European institutions, where they warn that they are failing to comply with the European Charter of Languages. [[Applause]] And we are proposing more resources precisely for the normalization of our language. We ultimately try to partially correct the amendments, some of the issues that we consider important. We regret that this budget procedure is a missed opportunity to be able to correct those issues in which we see that there are shortcomings. The country would also need agreements to be able to deal with the challenges we face, and the fact is that this debate leaves us more concerned and concerned because we have an exhausted government that is also unable to dialogue and to give a fear turn before everything that is going wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. For the Joint Left Group, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u17	Good morning. We close today's budget debate, a debate with recurring, circular and almost loop arguments, which brings us back today to the starting point; a starting point that is not October 2019, when the advisor presented us with the 2020 Budget Project, but it returns us to 2016, when it began to run the legislation and the first budget was presented. This is therefore an extended debate for four years, repetitive, subject to the imposition of the overwhelming majority of the People's Party, which, obsessed in the logic of cuts and compulsive austerity, rejected all the proposals of our group and the rest of the opposition. However, this neoliberal strategy that has been applied by Feijóo in the ten years of government is closed with a demolition balance. Actual spending is EUR 2 billion under what was once power, and public debt increased by EUR 7500 million, a total suspension in the management of public accounts. Less income, less spending and more debt, that's the disastrous result of a failed strategy that leaves a grave inheritance in terms of social welfare that will have to solve the next government. In this legislation, which is approaching its end, the obsessive speech of the People's Party is to lower taxes. Today in the Coruña I saw a huge value in the city's exit and where this tax drop is advertised. In particular, it's a tax downturn on tax figures that record wealth and great heritage. Let me think about it here. For the People's Party it gives what is the stage of the economic cycle, it gives the evolution of the collection, it doesn't matter that there are unsatisfactory social needs, or even that because of lack of income you have to turn to debt. It doesn't matter, for the People's Party, there's always room to lower taxes; yes, taxes to the richest. They do it again and again. The only thing that changes is the way to cut spending. In the toughest years of the double recession suffered by the economy and the Greek society, the cuts were in nominal terms. At the present stage — six years of economic expansion — the cuts are in real terms, because the budget grows below nominal GDP. This explains that the weight of the budget on GDP continues to fall despite the fact that 2020 will be the sixth year of the accist phase of the economic cycle. We have no longer managed in public budgets 18.6% of GDP in the forecast for 2020 of 14.9%. We went from hard adjustment to fine adjustment, because in six years of economic expansion there was no progress in the recovery of the cuts applied in the toughest years of the crisis. We keep digging at the bottom of the well. The amendments of the Left Joint Parliamentary Group advocate an alternative model of budgets and fiscal policy that goes right in the opposite direction, rather than raising income. I will not be ashamed to say it here: yes, we want to raise taxes, because we need more income; we need them to recover from the deterioration of public services, social protection, investment, equality policies, employment policies or industrial policy, just to mention some of the areas that have suffered further cuts. I say it shamelessly: yes, we want to record more the great fortunes, the great estates, the incomes of the capital, so that they really pay what's their own, no less. I say it shamelessly. We want to raise taxes to those who have the most, because we want it to be fulfilled as set out in Article 31 of the Spanish Constitution that always carries in their mouths, except when it comes to social rights. As you do not know, I will repeat to you what article 31 of the Spanish Constitution says: "All will contribute to the maintenance of public expenditure in accordance with their economic capacity through a fair tax system inspired by the principles of equality and progressiveness...". I could finish my speech here, I think I would thank the House, because this is the synthesis of our proposals, of our amendments, but also because we already know what the final outcome of this debate will be. But, as Sisifus, we have returned one more year, in a further process, to comply with our obligation to explain our proposals; with hopelessness, I do not hide it, because the People's Party has already rejected the attempts of all the opposition parliamentary groups to redirect the 2020 budgets with the idea of definitely leaving behind the cut policies applied by the Faijó governments since their arrival in the presidency of the Union. The overwhelming majority of the People's Party rejected all amendments to the whole of the four opposition groups, which, with different formulas, we shared a common idea: to increase the level of income and expenditure in order to bring about a change of course in the budget policy of the Union. A necessary change, because economic indicators show that the widespread momentum of monetary policies is being exhausted and that we are already in time for fiscal policy to take the lead in combating the slowdown in economic growth. Necessary and urgent, because in our country there are very worrying differential symptoms that recommend speeding up that shift before the ship clears again. The Greek economy is suffering from the slowdown that affects the Spanish economy and the European economy. In the third quarter of 2019, GDP increased by 1.7 % at an average annual rate compared to 2 % of the Spanish average; a negative differential for us of 3 tenths, which should concern us. But the biggest concern is the path of slowness that we've suffered for two years. In 2016, the German economy grew by 3,5 %, in 2017, by 3,3 %, in 2018 was only 2,5 % and now we're at 1,7 %, only half. As this worrying scenario of slowing down, we must ask ourselves what alternatives, which are proposed in the 2020 budgets to combat slow down. The answer is none, a very worrisome answer, because Junta diagnoses the problem but does nothing to combat the slowdown. That's why we say these are resignation budgets, because it changed the economic cycle phase, but the public accounts, the instruments and programmes that are included in the 2020 budgets are exactly the same as in previous years, when the economy -- I mean -- was growing above 3%. For this reason, budgets for 2020 are not continuing as the Government says, they are routine because, before a clear change in the economic cycle phase, the budgets for 2020 are limited to applying the percentage increase corresponding to the same programmes and the same beginnings for 2019. That's why we say that the Union is acting irresponsiblely, because it is not able to present the budgets that serve to boost economic activity, and therefore it accepts in a resigned way that we are setting ourselves up in a phase of weak growth, under the threat of the unlikely but possible return to recession; recession in which the Greek industry already exists. The Greek industry has three quarters followed by negative rates; the whole industry, not only energy and electrointensive, but also manufacturing. The Galician industry has been in negative values since it began in 2019, becoming one of the key factors in slowing down economic activity. The industrial situation in Galicia is very worrying about the evolution of the last year, so it's happening in the last decade and the threats in the immediate future. We are not faced with a conjunctural problem, but with a structural problem. It's a fundamental trend, a process of deindustrialization supported in time, because today there are 22,000 jobs less than in 2009, when Feijóo took power, and 50,000 industrial jobs less than before the recession. It's true that it's a problem shared with the state as a whole, but it's also particularly serious in our country, because one out of three industrial jobs that have been lost throughout the crisis were a company in our country. It's a threat that doesn't stop, because every day we have to increase the list of companies -- very important in the Welsh industry -- threats of closure. The People's Party in this gallery often lists companies that I don't know why they say the Left Joint Group wants to close, and that list hides the real list of companies that close and fire people. I'm going to give you three names that went out last week: Isidro de la Cal, in the food industry sector, Emesa in metallurgy and Furniture Hermida. Why instead of saying everything that we want to close aren't they going to stop the industrial companies in our country from actually closing down, which, like these three I quoted here, have nothing to do with the problems of energy cost? What is the response in the budgets of the Union to this industrial crisis? None. One data serves to highlight the lack of active industrial policy: the budgeting of tourism - pay attention to this data! - increase the double that the budgeting of the entire German industrial sector. That's the country model you want us to take to Galicia. We say it again: the budgets submitted by the Government of Feijóo are not what Galicia needs by 2020, they are not, because they give continuity to the cutting policies practiced over these ten years, because they continue to do the same as in previous years, as if nothing changed in the Greek economy; a bureaucratic routine that leads them to ignore the indicators that indicate that we can be about to enter a new recessive phase. The structure of the budget debate gives us this second opportunity to point out that, as far as the People's Party is concerned to point out the discrepancies, all opposition groups agree on the need to change the direction of budgetary policies in Galicia at once, because only then can we begin to change the situation of fundamental public services; a change in the budgetary strategy that necessarily goes by curbing the loss of public weight in the economy, by increasing the resources of the autonomous administration to finance public policies and by truly increasing social expenditure, and not only as a result of the wage increase of public employees agreed by the unions and the central government. A basic piece, of course, of this strategy, is radically changing tax policies, which are designed exclusively to benefit the richest. The two basic features of a tax system are the adequacy and equity, which collects the income needed to finance public services and social protection and which contribute more to those who have the most. The Spanish tax system has always been in sufficientness and fairness, but the crisis and tax decisions of the last decade have aggravated everything even more. Tax rates in Spain are similar to the European average, but tax collection is 7 points of GDP below. We do it at the same level as the European average, but there are many who don't pay, or who don't pay what they should pay. It's almost 90 billion euros that we stop entering every year because of fraud, tax evasion and fiscal engineering. It's reprobable practices that everybody knows where they concentrate. A 2017 Tax Agency report showed that the average effective rate on accounting benefits of large companies consolidating corporate tax balances was only 6%. 6% pay the groups that consolidate balance sheets, Ibex 35's groups on their profits, while one employee pays an average of three times as much. Companies must pay 25% of their profits, but the bank, the Spanish bank, only paid 3%, and large construction companies directly circumvented corporate tax, since their actual type was ridiculous 0.6%. There's a data to follow the lead of this unacceptable defiscalization of the profits of large companies: 30 of the 35 Ibex 35 companies have subsidiaries in tax havens; 850 employees asked to circumvent the tax contribution. OECD itself is concerned about the tax evasion of large multinational companies, which use transfer prices and other instruments to erode the tax base and shift their profits to low-tax countries. A recent and innovative report from the Tax Agency highlights how Spanish multinational companies - the Greeks too - use this mechanism fruitfully. These are official data. The 134 large multinational companies in Spain taxed an average of 12% in companies; a breakdown of the business profits that come to the extreme insulting point that 27 Spanish companies who earned more than 25,000 million euros in the exercise taxed an effective rate of 0.3%, 83 times less than the nominal type of corporate tax. Here we go! Tax evasion of large companies, but also of capital income, so that what is called income tax in reality is a wage and pension tax. In Galicia in 2017 85 % of the tax collection of IRPF has its origin in the incomes of work, which are less than half the total, but which bear almost the entire tax burden. Elusion and tax inequalities, because a person who enters 60,000 euros for capital incomes taxes 22%, but if he enters them for his work, the marginal type reaches 45%. Tax inequality that exacerbates social inequality, because since 2010, when austerity began -- cuts, therefore, for most -- the number of millionaires in Spain increased by 500% to 952,000 people. The richest paying less taxes, because there's a strategy to end -- and I'm going to say it again -- a strategy to end up with tax figures that record wealth, including wealth tax and inheritance tax. We denounce that the German Government is following the path taken by the People's Party in Spain, which has in vanguard the Autonomous Community of Madrid, which has already eliminated these taxes. And now, in Andalusia, the People's Party, Citizens' Party and Vox go on the same path. In Galicia too, as the two star measures of tax policy in the past few years demonstrate. The first is the reduction in the rate of equity tax, adopted last year, but which has the effects in 2020. The second is the increase in the subjective reductions in the succession tax of the EUR 400,000 currently amounting to EUR 1 million for each of the heirs; a change which amounts in practice to the establishment of a minimum exemption of EUR 1 million for each of the beneficiaries and which will cause much of the accumulated wealth to stop taxing, as has already happened with the change in property tax since 2011. When the Central Government proceeded to the temporary regulation of wealth tax in 2011, the Union exercised its normative capacity. For what? To raise the minimum free of 108,000 to 700,000 euros, excluding habitual housing. This caused tax-entry declarants to go from 53,000 in 2007 to 6,000 in 2011 and the quota to enter had dropped from 81,000 million euros to 51 million euros. To make matters better, the board applied a policy change for which about 90% of the Greek taxpayers who paid for the property tax had stopped doing so. People who inherit up to two million euros or who have assets greater than 700,000 euros are the segment of the population of Greece to which tax reductions approved during these years by the Union are aimed; a tax policy designed to measure 0.2% of the population of our country. In our amendment to the total budget for 2020, we have shown that it is possible to build a radically different fiscal model to what the People's Party is defending, a fiscal alternative designed for the whole of Galician society and not for that 0.2% of privileged people; an alternative that distributes tax burdens in a more balanced way in relation to their economic capacity. They are fiscal measures as fair as necessary to improve the income of the autonomous community in order to implement an economic policy that drives growth and transforms it into economic and social development; an economic growth based on the productive economy, which transfers greater wealth to a greater well-being of citizenship, which combats inequality, precariousness, poverty and social exclusion. An budget equipped with the resources necessary to ensure an inclusive growth that leaves no one aside and therefore be more fairer and more solid. I'm going to finish. In our amendment to the whole we have made manifest the disastrous balance of these ten years of Feijóo presidency for the Greek economy, even for the public accounts. We demonstrate that the state of expenditure proposed in the Autonomous Community Budget Project by 2020 is far from recovering the levels of resources available for public policies prior to the economic crisis and compulsive austerity. We have pointed out that these budgets are insufficient to recover the lost land during these ten years of austerity, and we have shown that it is possible to construct a fiscal alternative that provides the resources necessary for the recovery of public services and social protection. Unfortunately, neither one of our arguments has been taken into account by the majority of the People's Party, so we will vote against the General Budget Project of the Autonomous Community by 2020. And I'm done. Other budgets are not only possible, they are necessary, they are essential, they have to be done, but the inevitable and necessary condition for them, in fact, if they can make other budgets, is to change from government, and in that effort is the Joint Left Group so that these are the last budgets presented by the People's Party, on the conservative right, which has done so much harm to our country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u18	Thank you, Mr. Lago. Before continuing with the turn of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we greet the students of the administration and finance cycles and administrative management of the centre The Cancel, of the Neves. Welcome to Parliament. And now if you have the floor, by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning to our guests. Good morning, Counselor. Galician where we live needs a Galician board capable of addressing the challenges and crises of our country. Today the Greeks and the Greeks know that ten years after the arrival of the New Year's Eve, our country has lost its population. He has an older population, he has fewer people working, with more inequality, with an agricultural sector with enormous difficulties, with a fishing sector without generational replacement, with an industrial sector in crisis, with an abandoned rural environment, with a fall back in the welfare state and in public services and with a health care in the ICU. [[Applause]] Today the younger Greeks know that the opportunities for the future in their country are less than they need to be able to develop their capabilities, their training and their vital project. Galicia needs a revitalizing and future project in the face of the inaction and exhaustion of a government unable to face the challenges of our country's future. Counsellor, these are the last budgets of an exhausted project, some continuity, inaction, lack of initiative. When a government has no project, it can't make some budgets at the height of its country, and that's the problem. That's a problem that moves all the Greeks and all the Greeks. You emphasize the importance of continuity and stability, but the reality, Counsellor, is that it is the continuity of failure. It's a continuation of the government's industrial policy failure budgets, which are behind the needs of the country's industry. They lack industrial planning, they don't consider the necessary impetus for employment, innovation and value-added generation. They are the budgets of continuity, the abandonment of the rural environment, without measures to revitalize our rural, with an increasingly empty Galicia and with greater territorial imbalances. It's the budgets of continuity, in the neglect and confrontation of the Galician Union, the People's Party, with the cities of Greece, which are behind them to urban areas, they don't meet their commitments in investments, in services, or in economic promotion. It's a government that punishes cities, precisely where the People's Party continually suspends elections. [[Applause]] These are the budgets of continuity in the precariousness of public services. Despite their public commitment speech, the reality is that they allow public services to become more and more relaxed, including health care, education and dependence. This government is a scourge for our country, and these budgets are the shaping of an exhausted project and a failed government. The socialists, on the other hand, are committed to Galicia, to our country, to its territory, to its people and to its diversity. That's why we have to refuse, Counselor, some budgets that do not place that commitment on Galicia. It'll correspond to the new government coming out of the polls in the next elections to meet the country, which you haven't done for a lost decade. Counsellor, we are going to vote not because the People's Party since its pedestal looks at the opposition's proposals, of course we are a plural society, despises the work of the opposition and our contribution. Counsellor, we've had two months of parliamentary debate to approve these accounts and you haven't moved a single copy of your initial ideas. You come here to this debate trying to convince us that these are the best budgets for the Greeks and the Greeks for the year 2020, starting from an unremovable position from the beginning; one shows more of their arrogance, of the arrogance of the People's Party, of their lack of dialogue. [[Applause]] A rather difficult position to explain, because it does not allow one of the 624 amendments tabled by the Socialists of Galicia in addition to the transversal amendment, with a positioning during the various debates within committee 3a, on each section, which they voted not in block without any attempt to negotiate. Tell me, Counselor: Does the Galician Council's PP understand that only you represent 100 percent of the Greeks and the Greeks in our country? Does the Galician Union PP not believe that we are a plural society with different sensitivity and different needs? Or do you not believe in democracy represented in this Parliament? Mr Counsellor, we have tabled 624 amendments which would substantially improve the budgets presented by you; 624 amendments which would contribute to building a more equal Galicia, reverse demographic cleansing, boost settlement in rural areas, create more jobs and of greater quality, boost economic growth and our productive sectors, alleviate the consequences of the industrial crisis, restore the quality of public services, put in place real and effective housing policies, put in place policies for youth and put in place more resources to end the macho violence. Finally, Counsellor, we socialists have tabled amendments that would help to conquer a Galician where we can live and all those who want to develop in our country - Galicia - their vital project. [[Applause]] Demographic indentation, Counsellor, is one of the most important problems in our country, so socialists will not vote on budgets that do not sink into the solutions to the real problems to reverse this situation. The data, counsellor, the data. The data contradict that advertising and propaganda policy that we've been accustomed to, that rural legislation that President Feijóo announced to us in his investment speech in this tenth legislation, that repeated mantra that Galicia is the best place to be born. What a pity, Counsellor, that these announcements have not been accompanied by effective measures and budgets enough to make that speech come true! The data, Counselor, the demographics of our country are the findings of the failure of the People's Party Government in population policy. In ten years of government Feijóo we are 97,000 less people, but only in this tenth legislation, Counsellor, have we lost nearly 20,000 people, almost 20,000 people! and almost 70,000 people under 40 years of age under in this tenth legislation, that is, in just three years. The fiscal balance of Galicia, Counsellor — INE data — tells us that from the final figures for 2018 we are the autonomous community with the worst evolution of all, and also tell us that in the provisional data for the first half of this year we continue to lead the worst evolution of all autonomous communities. The fertility indicator for Galicia, Counsellor, also tells us that the number of children per woman in Galicia is 1.05, just behind the Canary Islands and Asturias. This data, 1.05 children per woman, is far from fulfilling the objective nine of the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020 approved by you, which speaks of implementing a package of measures to demographicize our territory, bringing us to 1.59 children per woman; a 1.05 to reality, 1.59 what you put in that Strategic Plan. Counsellor, the Greek women show that they want to have children, but the economic and social conditions in Galicia do not allow them to fulfill that desire. The plan to set population in rural areas, as well as the Plan Returns 2020 approved by the Galician Union in this legislation and announced the bomb and plate, has been demonstrated as ineffective and empty measures of content, which do not sink into the solution to the real problems to reverse this Greek demographic indentation. It's a Galician Union that, after ten years of uninterrupted government of the People's Party and with significant population declines year after year, has just started the procedure to approve the Demographic impulse Act; a law promised by you, and when less than a year is left to complete this legislation has not yet begun the parliamentary procedure for your approval. So, at best, this law will be passed when it's about to finish this X legislation. And on the other hand, you voted not to the amendments tabled by the Socialists, you voted not to increase it by EUR 17 million programmes to boost population dynamisation, to develop business against depopulation and to help return emigrants. Employment, Counsellor, is the second major concern of citizenship and the first major failure of the management of the Galician Union, which in its macroeconomic forecast for 2020 promises us to continue to fail. That's why we socialists will vote no. [[Applause]] Employment, Counsellor, is the most important demographic policy. Employment allows us to establish population and develop each person's vital project. Employment gives dignity to life and promotes the dynamism of the economy. The data, Counselor, again puts us in a complicated reality. The Greek economy has grown more or less at the same pace as the Spanish economy, but in Galicia we have created jobs at a lower rate than in Spain. The EPA data from the third quarter of 2019 tell us that the number of people in Galicia is 50,500 employed less than in the third quarter of 2009 - 50,500 employed less, no more! - and of these 4,400 are industry sector. We're also told by the EPA data that the number of stops in Galicia dropped by half that in the state-wide, we actually dropped by 10.92%, compared to the drop in number of stops at 22.01% for the state-wide. And if we do the calculation in terms of hours worked, the official data tells us that in 2007 or 2008 we were over 2,300 million hours worked. And today, 11 years later, we're under 2,000 million hours worked. I mean, Counselor, today we're 83% of the hours worked on in 2007 and/or in 2008. The amount and quality of employment is a huge divide in the Italian economic growth in relation to Spanish. But the problem, Counselor, is not just quantitative, the problem is also qualitative: precariousness and low wages. Most contracts signed in Galicia are temporary. The age group between 16 and 24 years of age in 2018 had a temporality rate of 71.4%. The wage gap continues with a gender bias. And if we look at the salary, Counsellor, in 2018 47% of the employees had a salary of less than 1,100 euros. This is the situation, Counselor. And about this reality we ask our youth to strive to study, build a future, to have children, and to solve our demographic problems. And besides, look, Mr. Counsellor, with these data that are not new, this data that we saw dragging year by year, Mr. Núñez Feijóo's Galician Board, in the promotion of employment and labour market institutions, leaves unimplemented in this X legislation in three years more than 376 million euros. You, on the other hand, vote not on the amendments tabled by the Socialists; you do not vote on it by EUR 90 million for territorial agreements for employment in the four provinces; you vote not on programmes to improve employability and employment plans for long-term unemployed, female employment and untitled young people, for the Back program, for the Plan for Adaptation to Industrial Transition, for training for unemployed persons, for special assistance for workers in an EER or for employment plans in special employment centres for people with disabilities or employment workers. Counsellor, social well-being is the second major demographic policy, and housing. Counsellor, it's the second problem to be able to develop a vital project and therefore to seek settlement. Ninety-five percent of the Greeks and the Greeks ensure that the cost of maintaining their homes, rent or supplies is a concern in their month-to-month, day-to-day. And the balance of management of the Galician People's Party's Union again leaves us the impression that policies for people, essentially for people who need politics most, are witnesses. In housing policy, the exclusive competence of the Galician Union, in this legislation the Galician Union does not run 55 million euros. The housing policy of these nearly eleven years of the People's Party's government can be summed up in: abandonment of incentives, total paralysis in the direct promotion of housing and inability to meet the demand of the 14,500 requesting families. And as the renters continue to rise and youth finds it more difficult to be emancipated. These budgets are based on the failure in the area of housing. Unusual loans that do not end with the determination shown for the construction of public protection housing or for the help of the rent. They give up the youth they want to emancipate, leave families who live in precarious conditions and leave those who sleep thinking they can lose their home. That is the response of this government to these needs. And in view of this situation, in view of this reality, this government of the Galician Union for 2020 only provides for 26 dwellings, which does not mean even 0.2% of the 14,500 required, when the Greek Government has committed the construction, rehabilitation or acquisition of 600 homes per year. And in the rental aid the German Government leaves out 80% of the claimants, who have increased the ratio of 5 people/day in recent years, thus abandoning the most vulnerable groups of the Greek society. Counselor, today we have 205,000 people in Galicia residing in an insecure housing and 149,000 in an inadequate housing. Meanwhile, the Galician board plans to deal with the insurvival problems of 47,400 homes with 200,000 euros; that is, 4 euros per home. [[Applause]] In view of this reality, Counsellor, you also vote not for our amendments, vote not for amendments that would achieve the objective of increasing the availability of housing, as well as access to rent for all current applicants. They do not vote to solve this problem for the Greeks and the Greeks; they vote not for eleven and a half million for the construction of public promotion housing; they vote not for 24 million for support for young people and families for housing rent and they vote not for increasing the amount of living. Another of the major demographic policies, Mr. Counsellor, is the attention of children and children. We need to work, to have the security of a roof to live in, but we also need our children to be in the right centres, economically accessible, with qualified personnel to guarantee their attention and their proper personal development. And the Galician Union continues to redirect public resources to private child education centres, raising the Council Bonus and increasing shares for the maintenance of these private centres by 1.4 million euros. And in the meantime in public centers, waiting lists continue to grow. Mr. Núñez Feijó's great election promise to open infantry schools into industrial polygons was converted into a new fiasco of this government, with 70% of the unexecuted budget and the reduction of the 2017 departures to less than half by 2020. The well-being of our elders, Counsellor, of the people who helped build Galicia that we have today, should also be a priority for the demographic policies of our country. Families also need to have places that relieve us of the anguish of the care of our elders in appropriate, economically accessible centres, cared for by qualified personnel and as close to our place of residence as possible. In view of this, by 2020, investments for new homes of older people have disappeared from the budgets of the Council of Galicia and are all devoted to the prayers of Mr. Amancio Ortega. Making residences in all major cities is another of the promises that the Government has not fulfilled. The reality, Counselor, is that in ten years of his government they have not launched a single public management residence, not one! What is supposed, Counsellor, is that social policy will continue in minimum services and on the path of consolidating the working precariousness of workers in the centres of direct care dependent on the Council for Social Policy. [[Applause]] But you also voted not to our amendments. They voted not to EUR 17 million of the amendments tabled by the Socialists, which would allow for progress in the universalization of children's schooling from 0-3 years, free of charge, starting with those who need it most, as well as in the construction of children's schools and in the rehabilitation of those who need it. They didn't vote for 16 million euros for the construction of senior homes and for the construction of improvements in day centers. The data, Counselor. Again EPA data tell us that we have in Galicia, in the third quarter of 2019, 50,100 homes with all its members unemployed; 27,400 homes with no income, 128,000 homes with less than 370 euros of monthly income; 511,000 people living in homes with insanity conditions. And in view of this reality, Government Feijóo in its 2020 budgets continues to decline payments for non-contributory pensions. President Feijóo criticized as insufficient the planned departure by President Emilio Pérez Touriño of 10 million euros, but it turns out that eleven years later, Counsellor, and when the needs increased - they did not, they increased - the budgets of the Galician People's Party gave him just over seven million euros. For the fight against poverty they present budgets to go ahead, insufficient to fight this serious personal and social problem, without putting enough means to give a new opportunity to families who are worse off. You vote not at 10 million euros for the start-up of the minimum income and for a crash plan for the homes without any income. You vote no. Counsellor, we're going to vote for the precariousness of public services. In health care there are continuous budgets that show the deterioration of public health, including primary care or waiting lists, without even confronting the changes that the government itself said it would take forward. You opt for a low-cost health. It is clear that the Italian Government's health correction lacks in these budgets the resources necessary to comply with the proposals agreed with public health officials: to establish a maximum of consultations, work improvements and planning for generational relief. In view of the budgets for the next year, it can only be concluded that they have taken the hair to trade union or professional organizations. Health budgets do not include a model transformation or a real public health bet. They misaccount for the 400 new pitches announced and include 72 training posts, well below the 800 retirements to be registered next year and not in the budget. So if the accounts are done well and staff are left in training and the Contingency Fund, in fact, the staff promotion does not exist. And after the campaign against the Central Government, the Union won't take advantage of the largest number of MIR sites in history, condemning health personnel to an unstable and precarious recruitment. You voted not to the amendments tabled by the Socialists, you voted not to the budget allocation necessary to address the problems of the system, to broaden the human resources staff and stabilize staff, to reform the primary care model and to take care needs across the territory, ensuring equal access to public health. And if not, go out and tell all the women and men also that they are coming to protest against the closure of the Parish. It's more of a demonstration of their dismantling of public services, of their dismantling of rural areas. [[Applause]] In education. The Union confirms with these budgets that teachers will continue without regaining their teaching hours, while contributions to the university system remain stagnant. There is no indication that teaching in rural areas can have enough teachers. We're still far below other autonomous communities in multilingual solvent programs. There's no solid commitment to prevention of school dropout, another of the objectives of the 2015-2020 Welsh Strategic Plan. They become a chronic problem the economic weakness of the three public universities and yet they enthusiastically support a new private university in Galicia. They present stagnation in investment in R+D+i in Galicia, which loses 3 million euros that are absorbed by the Fontán building of the City of Culture, which will entail a total expenditure over 15 million euros for a building that no one has asked for, when those next to them are still running low.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u20	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u21	Mr Counsellor — already mentioned, Mr President — I will continue my second speech by telling you about the lack of industrial policy for the last ten years. But I remind you that we vote not because you don't bet on the territory, they don't bet on people, they don't bet on diversity, they seek the precariousness of public services and they're in favour of private services. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Puy Fraga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Today we are effectively closing the long parliamentary budget processing cycle; a cycle that develops in several phases, and I think it is not wrong to remember today that we have ended with the adoption of budgets. First of all, as you know, we discussed the expenditure ceiling; we did it on 8 and 9 October. The opposition voted against. We argued that it was a prudent spending ceiling to fit macro forecasts, with an increase in income of 3.5 in the IRPF and in the IVE, of 2.9 in specials, of 4.6 in heritage and succession and of 9% in property transmission taxes. Here we were told that I would make you grow more than I came from outside and not what depended on us. These figures show no. And, moreover, that included 30 million euros of positive liquidations of the year 2018 - an exercise that is already closed - discounted, of course, the 85 million of the negative liquidations that we continue to pay from the years 2008 and 2009 and that are discounted from the positive liquidations of the next year. We understand it was a reasonable spending ceiling. You refused it. PSOE said there was a lack of rigour in those figures. The Joint Group on the Left and the Block, just because they're against the ceiling. And shortly after that debate, specifically on 23 October, Airef caused a problem to this argument, because it made a specific report on the macroeconomic forecasts of the Galician Union prior to the presentation of the budgets that literally said they were prudent and that in everything related to GDP growth and job creation they met all the requirements that were applicable in the budgetary frameworks of the Member States of the European Union. There was another change in those days, which was that we knew the PSOE-Powell pact, the famous "agree pact", which will create - it seems - a progressive coalition government. At its tenth point he said: "The Government will promote social policies and new rights under Spain's tax liability agreements with Europe." Airef tells us that we have complied with the agreements, precisely the stability requirements that mark Europe. There was no change here on the part of anyone, nor those who said that there was a lack of rigour in the accounts, nor, of course, those who vehemently denounced the European Stability Pacts, but those who seem to want to enter the coalition government, they don't care to sign that they must be met. This is a bit the end of the first step. The second step began shortly thereafter, on November 18, with the whole debate. Here again, the three opposition groups rejected the government's accounts because they grew little, when they did it in 300 million euros, first achieving a non-financial expenditure of 10,149 million euros after a long time. Here is what we were told then - and today it is repeated also without any continuity solution, as if told in commission - is that we spent little because we didn't even spend what we spent in 2009, the year in which the non-financial expenditure was 10.538 million, but it was funded with 1,600 million negative liquidations that we're still returning and 600 million additional euro of debt that don't go into the accounts of the year 2020. In short, EUR 2,200 million which Galicia owes and pays for various mechanisms; which would give us, without those figures, an budget in 2009 of EUR 8.300 million of non-financial expenditure, deflated, EUR 9.976; that is, EUR 750 million if we exclude what we are paying in debt and that does not go into the 2020 budgets, which is the difference between making reasonable accounts and others leaving problems for those who come behind. The truth is, I've already said that what they do in terms of the years 2008 and 2009 simply means that the left has learned nothing from the crisis. They don't realize that we entered a stage where the Government had to launch the payment to suppliers because it wasn't paid to the suppliers. They were billed in drawers in the autonomous communities, several autonomies were out of the markets, particularly Catalonia, the Autonomic Liquidity Fund had to be made and much of our financial system had to be rescued. All of this led to unemployment, recession, low income and the country on board the intervention. That leads me to think that putting any example of financial performance on the left in 2009 on the budgets of Galicia, which have been overwhelmed by these problems, is simply not having learned anything from the crisis, which is the worst example you can set to assess the budgets of 2020. This whole debate has also shown, through amendments, that the opposition continues to build tax castles in the air. As I said a moment ago, budgets are rising to 2020, with respect to 2019, in EUR 300 million, and the opposition is asking us to increase expenditure; of course, far from what Mr. Lago said we should be spending to keep public spending on GDP, which almost reaches EUR 2,000 million. The Socialist Party of Galicia this year asks us to spend more EUR 226 million, and the truth is that the previous year asked us 293; that is, this year for 2020 they amend an increase in spending less than the year 2019. Why less? Because last year we were asked to be indebted to EUR 138 million and this year we were asked not to be indebted to anything. What's the difference? Well, obviously, that Mr. Sánchez rules and not Mr. Rajoy and, therefore, we have to ask the Board to pay more. Moreover, one of the amendments we have made to the Socialist Group in the Budgets Act - which will then debate the spokespersons - was precisely to reaffirm our commitment to meeting the goals of debt and deficit. The Marea Joint Group last year wanted us to increase by 400 million euros; this year it calls for 560 million euros. Where's the difference? In the background of the system. Last year they said that we increased 238 million transfers from the autonomic financing system, and this year we don't know very well why it's 410 million euros. Practically nothing in fiscal policy and everything in the system. And finally the Block, from 190 last year to 232 this year, in 2020, and here is fiscal engineering. For example, in the tax on large areas, where last year's collection was going to be increased by EUR 30 million, this year's budget includes EUR 61.8 million; i.e. more than doubled in one year the commercial areas in Galicia or it is not clear exactly what type these commercial areas are going to be recorded with. Empty housing tax goes from 36 million to 45 million and sugar drinks from 11 million to 15 million. Last year we said that that would give 8 euros per litre of sugar; this year -- that should be a little -- it would go up to 10. In short, of course, the Socialist Party has changed its amendments in the whole debate, which are retrained to the stability they govern in Madrid. They've forgotten what was to be shared in other ways. The Left Joint Group should not expect to govern and announce that we will be given many more transfers than the system foresees and that Airef says that they are reasonable in accordance with macroeconomic forecasts and the Galician Nationalist Block continues in its fiscal volunteerism. The problem is that after this whole debate, which was on 18 November, there was a new report by Airef - a body that analyses the viability of the autonomous accounts - on 4 December. What does this report say? It says it is feasible to comply with the objective of stability; therefore, that the accounts presented here were well-made, that the revenue amounts to a 5 and expenditure a 3. He says there is a moderate risk of non-compliance with the spending rule, but he says that in 2019 there will be no surplus because the Government of Spain does not transfer to autonomous communities -- and specifically Galicia -- 200 million euros of the VAT owed to him by the year 2017. That's what Airef's report says. And thirdly, it says compliance with debt targets makes Galicia at risk of slightly low sustainability. I mean, the Board's accounts that you criticized, that they said you could paint revenue, that you could give more resources to the system, according to Airef, are some accounts that will allow you to meet all the stability requirements. Again, the forecasts of the Union proved to be appropriate and not those of the opposition, it was the increase in expenditure of 226 million euros, as PSOE more modestly requested, or 560, which more generously proposed the Joint Left Group; yes, painting unreal income. And finally, we're going into phase three, which is the amendments to spending states. And when we started this debate, we started it with a general criticism, which was repeated on several occasions during the debates, and this is a political debate, not a technical debate. Of course, budgetary debate is a political debate where they exist, but it is also an economic debate, because we have to analyze the effects of the fiscal proposals that give us the opposition and we need to take into account, for example, the contractual effect of a tax sub, or we need to take into account, for example, the effect that produces something that impresses capital, when in the country on the side, in the community on the side, the same capital is not recorded. And mobility is feasible, people can emigrate to a jurisdiction not to pay a tribute, when the one on the side is free. It's also a legal debate, and that's why we also rejected some amendments, because they contradicted basic legislation. Practically all that the Public Employment Block presented to us were contrary to basic legislation, and legally we, of course, would not accept it, as we cannot accept it either from a legal basis - although there I also recognize that we can ideologically disagree - the removal of the modules of the concert. Or, for example, there are also the legal consequences. A amendment from the PSOE that proposed to suppress the explanatory statement of the Budget Act, without any alternative text, when all logic and any good legislative technique tells us that the explanatory statement is an interpretative element of the legal norms of important value, and that must therefore be included in all of them. But it is also a technical-accounting debate, and even this debate has a sociological perspective. That's what budgets are, they're political, but they're also economic, right, accounting technique, and they have a lot to do with sociology. Of course, we are doing something that is political in this debate, but taking into account all the other criteria, particularly technical criteria. I am one of the ones I am convinced that facing a political decision or volunteerism against technical knowledge is a clear path to failure, and that and not another is the failure of populism, which precedes the political will to the reality upon which the will can act. It's true that demagogy can be very attractive, but its effects are usually very destructive. In this case, we are talking about technical-budgetary or accounting aspects, which imply that when there are amendments in the technical-accounting field, it must be very clear and very precise. Because what the opposition is doing -- and that is why we reject it -- is for political purposes using accounting devices, which has been manifested throughout all the debates that we have held in committee. Because you use accounting devices to hide the political and economic consequences of your model; ultimately, to make propaganda and not to say exactly that you give up when you propose to increase your spending. This is a little honest debate for us, because they constantly use financial illusions, hiding who would pay or fund the new expenditure they propose, which is very important because in politics it is about electing, and I talk about the concept of "financial illusion" in the classic concept of Italian financial sociology, by Amilcare Puviani, who was given to know among us who was president of the Constitutional Court, Professor Rodríguez Bereijo, between the Anglo-Saxon academic doctrine, so it was my master James Buchanan. For in the whole debate they weren't honest because they invented new income at no political cost, because it costs nothing to put in the budgets that you're going to have 400 million euros that will send you Madrid - that Madrid won't send you - or paint collection or make as today a reference to corporate tax, which we all know is not an autonomous tax. It's not honest to say that tax benefits are suppressed, but not to say if what you want to delete is the birth aid, the large family, the reception, the care of minor children, the rent of young people, the purchase of housing for young disabled people, etc. It's not honest to make this kind of amendment. That is what they did to us in the whole debate. Or even, when they're honest, like when, for example, they say you shouldn't accept the drop of some taxes, they incur another interesting form of demagoxy, which is to say that all the tax cuts that the Popular Group makes correspond to favoring the rich. They forget, of course, all that has been done, for example, the pact with the Socialist Party to raise the tax on wealth at the worst of the crisis; they forget, of course, that the first important tax discount that the People's Parliamentary Group made was to lower the tax on income to 80% of the lowest incomes, much below what the Alternative Left Galeg Group proposed to us for less-income sections; they forget, ultimately, all we have done along this legislation. And they tell us we don't, out of pride, accept the amendments that present us to the state of expenditure. Mrs. Pontón referred to memory. I, as she knows she has it, could remember that in 2008, when the budget was debated for the year 2009, they didn't accept a single one of the 850 amendments that the People's Party presented. We accept three, and we trade one in the Budget Law. You didn't even accept that, at a time when the People's Party was the majority group of the House, by the way. Or, as Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo says, we are arrogant, forgetting the heritage tax pact, the pacts we had with you in the budgetary process for the control and transparency of public-private contracts and partnerships or the agreements we had for transparency, included in this budget in the amendments that we accepted to it in the Budget Law. And talk to us about demography. He says we're arrogant in demographics, when there's been an observatory of demographic dynamization, where the Socialist Group participated, and whose conclusions were supported by the Socialist Group, what the law that is going to enter the House, of demographic impulse, and what you haven't objected to. We're still in time for you to bring things into the parliamentary process for demography, but, of course, to a majority group, to fight the demographic crisis, to do all this, you can hardly tell you that it's arrogant, because you bring us some amendments, which, far from being bad for your purpose, are bad because what they're doing is to dress up a saint without getting to wear another one, as now I'm going to prove. Because, in fact, in partial amendments, they have less room to make financial illusions, but they do make a lot of financial illusions. There are two groups, the Joint Left Group and the Mixed Group, which present cost growth amendments for many splits without specifying which splits are reduced. This is fantastic: I increase the expenditure, I'm going to tell the towns and villages I want to spend more, or I'm going to see collectives to whom I tell them I'm going to spend more money, but I don't say where I get the money, which village I take or who I hurt because I decrease their expenses. [[Applause]] And the Block and the PSdEG, which, if they mention the games where money comes from, use other mechanisms of financial illusion, for example, to fund new projects from the reduction of unpopular games: current spending, high charges, advertising... when the reality is that when you rule, you have lowered the spending on eventual staff, the office material and protocol spending has fallen by more than 50% and advertising has dropped by 60%. That's when you ruled. Then they'll say, we've learned the lesson. But it's not that either. Do you think it's credible that we can further reduce this type of expenditure and when they get to the Government of Spain -- that you've all voted, except for the Block, which was not yet -- the first thing President Sánchez does is to increase spending by 15% in high office and 30% in prospective personnel? That is, we're going to spend, reducing what can no longer be reduced. So it's generating a financial illusion. [[Applause]] What it's like to generate financial illusion is its amendments, which reduce transfers to the concert, either in education or in health care. At the last plenary session Mr. Torrado commented that we couldn't compare the contents of the initial departure for the concerted activity in Sergas, because throughout the year there were variations, and he's right; what we have to go see is what the Board of Auditors says, and we give them the data. The last year of this government monitored in concerted expenditure by Sergas was 202 million euros, and the last year of the Bipartite was 220 million euros. We can deflate it too, but obviously you've spent a lot more on concerted health than the current government is spending. [[Applause]] The same could be said of education. But this is not the grave, the grave is where the financial illusion is. And what you're doing is you're taking funds from arranged education to take them to university funding and get along with the university community, and the funds that take them to concerted health don't take them to public health, take them to ambulances and works, which is where dishonest people are. The boys who go to the concert won't go to the public, there's no need to increase or reduce spending on concert or spending on public education. The people who are hospitalized at the concert are going to enter public hospitals, but you don't increase the spending of public hospitals, increase other things that have nothing to do with the spending that is saved. This, of course, is cheating, it's creating financial illusions, and it's not being honest when the amendments are presented. Nor is it — the third question — to withdraw funds from transfers of entities without clarifying what expenses would cease to be made by them. You systematically leave it clear that you are not prepared to govern, or at least you are unable to submit serious budgets, when you take money and make transfers to the Galaga Infrastructure Agency, transfers to the Antique, transfers to the Welfare Consortium and transfers to the Galego Institute of Housing -- no one can be offended by this, because it's a transfer -- What's the matter? The problem is that these games have a cost correlation in the entities that these transfers are going to. But there the opposition groups say nothing, they refuse to choose which road they stop doing the Infrastructure Agency, they refuse to say that the program of digitization discards the Antique, they refuse to say that the Children's School paralyzes the Wellness Consortium, which they take out transfers; or, for example, when they take money from Cixtec, who are dealing with tax fraud, what they are doing is taking the money away from the body that gives all the information to pursue tax fraud. This is -- this is -- a way to create financial illusion with the amendments and a little bit of a way to amend. But there is another mechanism that has also used opposition groups, which is to remove funds from games with the most ambiguous names, for example: replacement investment, environmental actions... nobody will criticize whether maintenance and replacement investment is taken away -- and if you call transfers from private companies, of course, here it's easier to say that they get out -- What they hide is the consequences. For example, the PSdeG, which is so aware of climate change, would be withdrawing funds from the energy efficiency works that it is doing to Junta in all its buildings. Or BNG, who is so worried about Galician emergency system, withdraws funds that finance the digital network that emergency teams use to communicate. Or the same nationalist group, always so supportive of R & D+i, would be cutting off the games that finance innovation aid for pemmes or the digital modernisation of small trade. If you come out of budget memoirs, you'll see that those matches are for that, but what happens is they don't care, because it's all about advertising and advertising with amendments to spending states. More, there's still another question I want to highlight. All the groups here, full after full, say that the Board is cicical in the distribution of funds due to lack of competitive competition in the city council investments. And what do you do in your amendments? They reduce the global stakes that finance the calls for investment aid in small, forest-based schools, against fires, works of municipal interest, and they use those money that withdraw from those games for new games that they have names and names: from the project of the council, funds to finger without competition... It is of course as we are debating in committee, you go through all the towns, all the towns and all the places saying that the PP doesn't want to approve those amendments, and to us that seems very little honest. [[Applause]] This exercise of financial illusion, which is to avoid the political cost of visualizing the specific programs and investments that you would delete to fund others and hide the real consequences of some of the political decisions that bring about their amendments, I think it disqualifies as a whole and makes it impossible for the People's Group to support some of their amendments. I must say, for being honest and for honoring the truth, that doesn't always happen. There is, for example, a fine where this is done. The Galego Nationalist Bloc, for example, amends the section of culture and tourism, in which it opts to decapitalize all tourism-related games and with Xacobeo to finance new cultural policies. We disagree with that direction of tourism and cultural policy. We believe that Jacob is a great opportunity for Galicia and its economy, but at least there are honest people and they say what to do. It's a shame that there are few examples of honest amendments and that almost all of them are a real creation of financial illusion. In short, in the first phase, we were made a fiction of macro forecasts that Airef said they were fictitious. In a second phase, we were fictional with income forecasts, and Airef reconfirmed that they were fictitious. And now, in phase three, we're in the misusing fiction of resources. I mean, what you've done with the amendments is populism and electoralism in the vein; that's what these amendments, populism and electoralism in the vein are, in addition, increasing by the populist tone that adopts many of their orientations in the budget debate. [[Applause]] First, they are constantly discrediting the intentions of the political rival. There is a book by Pierre Cahuc and André Zylberberg — two French economists — called Economic Negationism, and says one thing: economic negationists — who are very dangerous because they can lead a country to ruin — always use an argument, which is to undo an economic-technical argument saying that what they want is to favour the rich. I recommend that you read this book because you are often in the economically negative populism. We may think you're wrong, that it's good to boost Jacob. You don't think so. There's a problem here. What I don't think about when you amend me is that what you want is to sink the country or want to mistreat people, which is what you're constantly insinuating when we make some political proposal. The second populist element is propaganda; that is to say, to go to the villages without telling who it is to say that if you want to do things is clearly populism; it's demagogy. Regardless of whether they are laudable targets, even though they are not all... I, the truth, the objective mentioned in this debate, which will debate other spokesmen throughout the plenary, to put the issue of Verin into the budgetary debate when, if there is one thing that is clear, there is no budgetary problem in pediatrics in Verin, because it is to make populism, and also dangerous. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] And it's not honest — it's populism, it's electoralist and it's demagogic — to ignore data and evidence. Here we're saying that we're carrying social expenses. I am going to give the figures — I gave them, but I repeat them — health: 2009, 3.700 million; 2020, 4.107; expenditure per capita: 1.360; year 2020, 1.527 — about health expenditure. Education: 2.400 million; 2.465 this year. Expenditure per population aged (2-24 years), 4,387 in 2009; 5,000 in 2020. Social action and social promotion: expenditure in 2009, 570; expenditure in 2020, EUR 821 million. I mean, we go from 205 per capita to 305 per capita. In R+D+i? 142, and now it's 183; then it was spent per capita 51, today it's going to be spent in the 2020 exercise, 68. Since it's also demagogy, I'm sorry that the figures aren't even good enough. It has been said here that severe poverty has increased, and reference has been made to various reports: poverty risk rates according to INE, Galicia has been low since 2008. The rate of poverty, the rate of risk of poverty, falls in five communities — according to the INE — and Galicia is the second at which the rate of risk of poverty is lower. The Arope rate of severe poverty has been mentioned. In 2008 we were at 3%, in 2018 we are at 1.6%; it is the second with less severe poverty of all autonomous communities. You can't say, as much as you have to keep fighting against poverty, against exclusion, that we're worse than when you rule; in fact, we're better.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u24	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u25	Well, in view of these amendments — I insist — of popular demagogy, there has certainly been little to do, but that does not mean, by not accepting them, that we have no growing budgets, some budgets that improve social spending, some budgets that assure economic agents, that they ensure that we continue to grow, create jobs, and thus ensuring the sustainability of well-being in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u26	Thank you, Mr. Puy. The role of the parliamentary groups in defining the amendments advocated by the other groups. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u27	Good morning again, gentlemen. It is curious, paradoxical even, to see the People's Party talk here about negationism, and, to begin with, the negationism of the problem that exists with the closure of the Parish Hospital of Verín. Well, of course there's a problem, and you can't deny that there's a problem from that situation. A social negationism of a problem is that a service which is essential to the community is suppressed and money is saved by that decision. And besides, it's the negationism of another evidence, and there are six judgments of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia that condemn Sergas precisely by the illegal organization of the Pediatric Emergency Service of the Valdeorras Boat, which was transportable directly also to the situation of the Verín Hospital. So I was assuming a budgetary readjustment of Sergas in connection with that hospital as well. So, of course, we're also talking about a budget problem. What we're not talking about, of course, is that the problem was technical, because, as the criteria of the president of Galician Union himself were evolving during those fifteen days, it's obvious that the motives were falsical and therefore the negationism of the problems will not give rise to people feeling supported. The only thing that can protect the population, not only from the district of Verín, but from the whole of Galician citizenship, is that they immediately and unconditionally restore the services of paritory and pediatric emergencies in this comarcal hospital and undertake not to further dismantle public health, especially as far as commercial health is concerned in the different hospitals in our country. And there's social negationism, but there's also climate negationism, or at least there's no budgetary reflection on the adequacy of the fight against climate change that would have to happen, especially now that the global climate summit has failed. The Galician Union should also take specific measures to address, as an advanced society, by means of its government, the fight against climate change, and they do not. The amendments proposed in Marea -- and they were the third block I left before by exposing the climate emergency in our country -- are also part of our set of proposals. First of all, the momentum of the Greek Strategy for Climate Change, with a higher budget allocation for this fight. And the dialectic of a green economy with budgetary support, which has a transversal character, from the promotion of trade, local products, municipal trade spaces and surplus markets. In the field of R & D, the development of the green economy, the creation of the centre of R & D+i, new materials from recycled and recycling elements in Cerceda. We are making a whole series of proposals — they have to be put on top of them — that have to do with the sustainable transition and that have to do with economic dynamization as compensation for the Pontes and Cerceda districts as a result of the closure of coal plants: the creation of the Centre of Resources for Sustainable Development of Galicia in the Bridges; the creation of the Centre of Eco-enterprises of the Bridges; the livelihood of renewable companies; the boost to the marine windmill, of all the time that Ferrolterra should be converted into a global reference; the pilot plan for energy reform of homes in the municipalities of Pontes and Cerceda; the development of the Sustainable Transition Map of Galicia, etc. These measures are essential for us to be able to carry out and take seriously something that the Government of Greece has not done in the last ten years despite the fact that it was still known that this was going to happen. Also in a key of sustainable economy we have a series of fisheries amendments, both for modernization and for the incorporation of new promotions from people to the sea and for the development of sustainable strategy techniques. It's also an idea of sustainable economy in rural space -- the strategic plan for improving the furniture industry. We think it's better than Sweden and Galicia when we move our houses. And, therefore, we bet on developing a sector that should be pointers, not only at the Greek level, but at the European level. Transport is one of the keys to the fight against climate change, and therefore sustainable mobility is essential, and this is something that we miss in these budgets. We are talking about a sustainable mobility in the urban area of Pontevedra and the direct exploration for the establishment of a tram system that connects the entire conurbation, the improvement of public transport in Salnes, metropolitan transport in the city of Ourense and in the environment and an appropriate budget for intermodals, the Plan for the Development of Electrical Public Transport or the study of the implementation of other forms of transport. Where it does not provide for nearby trains, which can be developed by tram systems, such as the development of the urban and metropolitan areas of any European city or of any European urban area. Also in the freight railway, the service station and the provision of the dry port of Monforte once and for all. As far as the environment is concerned, we are talking about the recovery of soils from environmental damage permitted by the Galician Union, particularly from degraded soils in the region of Valdeorras, and from sanitation and environmental improvements in laughs such as Burgo, Arousa or Ferrol, etc. In other words, these are actions that, despite the limitations at this stage of the debate, we believe that they can substantially improve the sustainability of our country. We also think that, in a way, we live in a situation of democratic emergency, and that forces us to fight especially against corruption, tax fraud and tax evasion of great fortunes. And that's why we plan a specific training programme at the Galician School of Public Administration to fight corruption, to improve and support the actions that are being developed and that will continue to be further developed by the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, once the two prosecutions are implemented in the provinces of Coruña and Pontevedra — as announced by the Chief Prosecutor who was already studying the Tax Council. Secondly, the increase in the budget of the Tax Agency to improve the fight against tax fraud, which is also an investment with return, because that investment then leads to money entering the public archives that are not currently and which should be. So it's something we should take care of. These are those amendments that we think would be positive even for the archives of the administration itself. And also as a democratic emergency we qualify the need for information and awareness on equality and affective-sexual diversity, especially by the offensive, both homophobic and transphobic, which is currently carrying out the extreme right and which is being carried out in more and more spaces. It is necessary to counteract it through equal awareness campaigns, something which, in our view, is not doing properly to the Council of Galicia. We must also qualify the situation in which our language is found, for example in the Administration of Justice, as a democratic emergency in the linguistic field. We adopted in Commission 1 almost two years ago the Galeguization of the Justice Administration Programme and we are still waiting for it. Well, here we come up with a proposal for budgetary allocation, in addition to taking advantage of asking for a derogation from the decree of evil called plurilingualism, which is the only standard that is making it easier for the disappearance of the language of Greek as the use of the language of vehicles, especially in the teaching and therefore the reduction of its use by the newest layers of society. As far as culture is concerned, we do not want to fail to point out the disincentive I have put forward at the request that the San Fernando barracks in Lugo be used as a parader and not as the museum of the Romanization that this city requires. Ladies and gentlemen, these three emergencies that I have just referred to and organized on these three blocks can be addressed by amendment in these budgets. We have seen that the position of the People's Party is absolutely refractory, and for that reason we think that, by ignoring these emergencies — the feminist emergency, the social emergency and the climate emergency — there is a civil society — for this reason — that is manifested at this time at the doors of Parliament by policies that it considers, of course, machos; policies that understand that they are institutional violence against women for the closure of essential services. It's not just the strangulation of the rural environment, it's the denial of essential services, it's the creation of risk situations for women and their children who didn't exist before. A previously non-existent risk is created because a previously existing service is deleted. So we don't make social negationism, we make an assumption of a reality that you don't. They have to be aware of their decisions, they have to be aware that these decisions cause suffering, they have caused suffering and can cause even more suffering. Let's not wait for new tragedies to happen again or for events that happen that no one wants to restore services that should not be deleted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u28	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u29	Yes, I'm going to finish. That's why people show up here in front of Parliament today. It is people — let me say — who voted for the People's Party in the elections of 2016 — who will even see public positions out there from the People's Party, and that all they're asked to do is correct. Wasn't rectification wise and wise? Well, if it's a decision that also has a relatively low economic cost, it should be especially easy, but we know they won't, and so they announced it. This is the branch of an anti-social policy and unfair policy legislation; of policies that are old-fashioned as they go against the social majority. We think that for this reason, by living behind the people and their needs, by living isolated the president on Mount Pio without listening to the cry of society, for these reasons will be the last budgets of the Feijó era. We will support the amendments of the other parliamentary groups, and, with regard to our own, we will call for the separate vote of three general groups.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u30	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u31	Some have to do with public health, particularly for the replacement of public health services in Verín; others with regard to the attention to functional diversity in Ourense...;
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Villares. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u33	...and a third block of separate proposals that relate to the climate emergency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u34	Thank you very much. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, to set its position, Mrs. Pontón Mondelo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u35	Mr. Puy -- I don't know if today he almost called you Professor Puy -- he made us here... I don't know if the People's Party gentlemen, Mrs. Prado, want to intervene right now. [[Murmurs.]] Anyone? I'll leave them. [[Murmurs.]] If the president and his group give them the floor, I have no problem.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u36	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u37	Excuse me? Yeah? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We all listen with respect, but in the People's Party stands it is clear that this word does not conjugate her too much. [[Murmurs.]] He said that Mr. Puy today, in his version of Professor Puy -- I've already said here that I was a student of him, so I don't know why they bother so much -- he told us about phases. In the last phase he almost saw himself playing a film that is quite old, but he was very well known at the time, it's encounters in the third stage. I saw him abducted by propaganda and the manipulation of the government itself, the truth, Mr. Puy, and quite weak in his argument. [[Applause]] Now tell us what to talk about Verín is to make populism. I mean, talking about a problem that we're seeing endangering women's rights, putting children's rights at risk, is populism. No, ladies and gentlemen, it's to defend the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks, of the rural people, and not to hide your head when we have a lot of people protesting out there because they're really worried and worried about their lives. [[Applause]] And if either of you were the mother or the father who spent the past week with him, what happened to him, they certainly didn't say this was populism, they would say it's an exercise of responsibility for the cuts of the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, we're not going to shut up, and we're going to continue to argue that we can't close the Verín Hospital at all and each of the forums. We do this today too, among other things, because of the fact that it has to do with budget policy with cuts in public health that are taking place! Of course, they have to see the decisions that the People's Party has made to make about increasingly precarious working conditions also in public health, which explains that today we have the problems we have! So if they have no arguments, at least they don't get into the debate in such an offensive way. And not for us, for all the people who are out there protesting, for all the neighbors and neighbors of Verín who have been protesting for weeks, who have been locked up in a hospital for more than ten days and are not making populism, but are defending their right to health. That's what they're doing in the hospital. [[Applause]] Mr. Puy also told us that the left has learned nothing in the crisis. I'll tell you we've learned a lot. The first thing we learned is that the crisis was the perfect excuse for bringing forward a social scam; a scam that was used to centralize and that is being used to create an increasingly unequal society. [[Applause]] I talked about the official data that demonstrate, in addition, how this economic crisis in Galicia is causing greater inequality. We see how the wages of the workers and the workers weigh less and the incomes linked to the capital weigh more. And if well that imbalance is taking place throughout the state, it's much more sharper as it is in Galicia. I imagine seeing the levels of poverty we have in our country, the levels of immigration, the levels of inequality and precariousness, this should be a central reason for the change in economic policy in the Union and also for the change in fiscal policy. Because, of course, they're making presents for the richest rents! What is it, if not, what have they just done with the succession tax? Honestly, what you can't come here is to deny reality, but at least to be honest and say, let's defend a policy in which we actually believe the rich have to pay less, because that's what you're defending and doing the People's Party since you got to join. Be honest and stop using propaganda. [[Applause]] It's true that you, somewhere, don't know if in a conscious way or unconsciously, did have some sincerity. So he told us he was voting against BNG's amendments because they were going to recover rights in public service or because we wanted to defend public education in front of the lobby of the concert. Well, of course it is, we have it very clearly. We believe in the public, we believe that rights have to be recovered and we are going to give all those debates in the budgets. Where I really don't think you've been too busy — and you're going to allow me this comment — it was the justification that the amendments were not approved, and it's going to be a technical matter. I believe that technically all these amendments are well done, among other things, because, as required by the House's own Rules of Procedure, they could not be approved by the Bureau unless they were technically not in agreement with what is established to be able to make those amendments. And besides -- and I don't think I'm going to find out anything new -- there's a possibility that's the transaction, and if you don't agree to where the discount is done, but you do agree that you have to change and you have to include some of the proposals that we make, we're always willing and willing to change the place where the discounts are made. The problem, Mr. Puy, is that you know that that's an excuse for poor payers and that the People's Party is unique and exclusively here to pass the parliamentary knee, and since they have no arguments, they have to resort to these kinds of issues. I'm just going to focus on two things that I think are important. You say we lie when you say there are cuts in essential public services like health or how education can be. Of course, it's true, one goes to the numbers and says, today, in the global health package -- there's your health spokesman there, passing notes, okay -- there's...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u38	Quiet. Mr. Trenor, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u39	May I continue? What you don't say is that in health care, in primary care, today we have less resources than ten years ago — specifically EUR 140 million less — and an accumulated cut of EUR 2,000 million. What's this about? Because it is causing us to have a very serious problem in health at the base of the health system, which is denouncing society and which we have just seen recently. Doctors and primary care doctors don't strike for sport or because they do, but because they lack resources, means, and there's a constant deterioration. [[Applause]] We also have the society mobilized, and not only in Verín, because they want to load their comarcal hospital, but also in many other places. We recently had a mobilisation in Soutomaior, a place where the quotas are saturated, where primary care appointments are being cancelled, where there are waiting lists that are not abjectible, and no matter how much the People's Party's Health Spokesperson takes his head, the reality is there, and society is not protesting for sport, protesting because there are problems and they don't bring the popular party's propaganda. [[Applause]] So what we see is that there are still problems at the base of the system. You know that half of the increase in health goes directly to the salary increases of the staff working in the Public Service and that another very important part of that increase is derived from the fact that it has greatly increased the pharmaceutical expenditure on health. So it's not true that there's more real resources in public health or that these budgets are going to cause problems to those elements where you're seeing that health has worsened in a stronger way. Another thing we could say about education. There were 2,000 million euros cut in ten years. They got rid of those issues they had...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u40	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u41	...more than paying attention to people who have hearing and language problems or other specialities; we see it as a key element in any educational system like universities today have less resources than ten years ago. The problems are there, they want to see you or not. And the serious thing is that these budgets show us that the People's Party does not have an online agenda for the future with the challenges this country has, that the PP has no vision, has no initiative, has no illusion, and it has only and exclusively focus on this since the survival of the People's Party in government, with a disconnected discourse of social reality, with technicalisms that I honestly believe that they are not supported from the point of view of the debate, which is a symptom more to the point where they have nothing to offer...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u42	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u43	...to the Greeks and to the Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u44	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. We welcome students from IES Xelmírez's 1st Bachelor's degree in Santiago. For the Joint Left Group, to fix its position on the amendments, Mr. Lake Peñas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u45	Briefly. On the position of amendments to the opposition groups, we shall vote in favour. And about the People's Party, we're going to stand up for what your spokesperson said here today, we're not going to circumvent this debate, especially with regard to the explicit and implicit criticism he made to the position of the Left Joint Group, which I basically noted in five elements. In the first, we are accused of forming a negotiation to form a left-wing government in the Spanish state that accepted the European Union's budgetary framework. The obsession the People's Party has with the cuts leads him to ignore the logic of what the European Union establishes. Because the European Union is talking about a deficit, not expenditure. The European Union does not say in any case that we have to cut down on expenditure, it says that we have to balance to some extent the imbalance in public accounts, the deficit, and that is the essence of our intervention this morning. It's possible to balance accounts, reduce imbalances, increase income, increase taxes, but the People's Party has an obstacle: the only way to balance is to cut spending. Confused! A budgetary framework is possible which advances in the balance of public accounts by increasing revenue. You're saying Merkel, who wants to impose a fee on financial speculation. He's saying the European Union set, which is considering setting up the Google rate. And it's a positioning that we defend here, the need to increase income. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In that sense — we have said it many times here — if income is not increased, the solution, the alternative, the consequence is more cuts and more debt. And here the People's Party has few lessons to teach from efficient management of public accounts, because with its government today we have 2,000 million euros less public spending and 7,500 million euros more debt. The second criticism made by the spokesperson for the People's Party is that we only propose amendments or estimates of revenue amounting to EUR 563 million, when what we say — as I have just reiterated now — is that the cut in expenditure is 2,000 million, compared to the amount of public resources before the recession and austerity began. Of course I did, Mr. Puy! but that's already explained it to him last year. Nobody happens to think that in one exercise it's possible to recover those 2,000 million euros. No one ever gets to think about it, and we don't say it. We say that we must start an income recovery process that, throughout a legislative process, enables us to recover and restore the public services and social protection of the level of resources they had before the recession. We don't have a fetishism with the year 2009, I would agree with the comparison we made with 2008 or 2007 when the update was used according to the evolution of inflation. There's a third comment that surprises me that it's done so slightly, and that is to say that we've invented that it's possible to increase the contribution of the autonomic financing system to 428 million euros, which is a figure that we've invented. In the last five years, in all exercises there has been an error — which I say was premeditated — in the estimate of income; less income that allows you to justify cuts. Mr. Puy knows. In 2018, the resources actually obtained were EUR 428 million more than those initially estimated when the budget was made. Over the past five years, the average deviation is 388 million euros. Of course, a strict estimate of income, as Airef says, would allow a higher figure! And we say this is just the year we have to do it, for two reasons. The first, because they do not have the limit set by the Central Government. Since he's a government in office, he hasn't established what the advance accounts will be, and the board has the responsibility and freedom to define that count. And the second is that the Greek economy is in a phase of slowdown which needs an expanding budget, which needs to combat the risks of falling into the recession, so we cannot expect to have 400 million euros in 2022, when the 2020 budget is liquidated, we need them now, yes! There's another question. I didn't understand why it's critical that we talk about corporate tax. I'm going to say two things about this. The first is that all major taxes, except corporate taxes, recovered the level of income they had before the recession. The IVE has the same, the IRPF, too, but corporate tax is the big black hole in Spanish taxation. And of course, what is collected by corporate tax has a direct translation to our country, of course! Not to the autonomous financing model, obviously, but, for example, how is investment in rail financed? How can it be separated in the common tax box what goes into corporate tax, and what the state spends on railway infrastructure, and say that this has nothing to do with the works of the AVE, by setting an example, or with the works that should be between Coruña and Ferrol, if we do not take into account the collection of corporate tax? Even more. As the investment of the General Government of the State determines the content of the Interterritorial Compensation Fund, there would be a direct and explicit contribution to the Greek public accounts if there was a greater collection of corporate tax, and therefore a greater investment. And then I'll finish my favorite. Mr. Puy, you can't make comparisons in amounts without taking into account the variation in prices. You can't do it because, as Ana Pontón well said, you're a teacher. You once compared what was spent on health in 2009 with what was spent on health in the budget for 2020 and did so again in nominal terms, and that's an ugly trick that you can't afford. I'll give you the figures. Social expenditure in 2020 compared to the year 2009, when price changes are taken into account, is EUR 900 million less, with the following distribution: EUR 300 million less in education, EUR 218 million less in health, EUR 209 million in employment policies and EUR 162 million less in housing policies. And here let me remind you again of a concept that we explained in a previous debate. The budget for the Union is now even EUR 2 billion below, that is the cut for 2020. But in 2013, for example, the cut was €3.5 billion, and that cut is going on every year.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u46	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u47	When we add the decade of austerity adjustments, the figure is amazing. Here, in our country, in public services, in social protection, in investment, in culture and in language, they stopped investing 26 billion euros. That's the most serious inheritance we'll ever have on the right, that we'll be left with from the People's Party. I'm done. We have a 10-year balance of right-wing governments which has been negative in terms of growth, employment, public spending, debt. You could be -- I don't know how to say -- modest and say, well, well, the result isn't very good, but because the situation of the world economy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u48	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u49	...it was terrible and we had no choice but to do this. But they don't, because, actually, you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u50	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u51	...they are at the service of that project: using the economic crisis to provoke a social model change in favor of the rich and against the working people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Lago. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Too bad Mr. Puy isn't here now, but you can move my words. I'm not questioning that I'm not, I'm just going to address him. Don't worry, don't be angry...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u54	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u55	...you're calm. I know they get nervous because they don't fit the criticisms of the opposition, but that's what you have, we're in Parliament. You are not the owners of the German Parliament. You are part of this parliament, but of course you are not the owners of this Parliament. [[Applause]] I wanted to tell Mr. Puy, but I also tell you and Mr. Counsellor, that I reaffirm myself in my exhibition and in the failure of the Galician Group in demographic policy. You've been ruling eleven uninterrupted years, where we've lost population alarmingly year after year. And in view of this, you, Mr. Puy, come to tell us that they have done a lot because they have the conclusions of the Galician Demographic Observatory. Man, Mr. Puy, even if you have the conclusions after ten years of the People's Party's government...! Besides, I'm going to remind you of something that seems quite obvious. The conclusions don't solve the problems, the conclusions have to put them into operation, and for that they need budgets. And that lack of budgets, precisely to implement those conclusions, is what we socialists demand in order to reverse that demographic indentation. [[Applause]] You guys have a document, put it on, put it on! Do it budgetally, do what they have to do and don't keep doing what they do, which is what they're doing all this legislation. I'm going to tell Mr. Puy something else, you can also transfer it to him and you can also be angry. Public health is not populism, it's politics, of course it's politics! And the policy applied in public health will depend on the kind of public service that we will have citizens and citizens of this country. And therefore, of course, we have to talk in this Parliament about the precariousness of public services and the neglect of rural areas! Demagoxy and populism are ads of advertising and propaganda to those who have become used to the Galician Union, empty of content and without money. And you know what where there's no money what there's stories. Let's keep going. Counsellor, we're going to vote not and I'm going to continue to argue against our vote. I guess this won't be populism or demagogy, right? Because I bring you data. You won't like it, but it's data, official data. We are going to vote against these budgets because they affect the absence of industrial policy for ten years of the Government of Galicia of the People's Party, which is ineffective to deal with the current industrial crisis. The accounts of the Government of Greece for next year undermine industrial policy, with a generalized reduction in the most important games, demonstrating their inability to execute the budgets planned in previous years. In these 2020 budgets, in a full industrial crisis resulting from decarbonisation, reduce the resources needed to help the energy transition and support the regions affected by the industrial crisis. They refuse to bet on economic modernization and industrial employment. They reduce the shares that could most help the economic-industrial fabric in the context of economic difficulties predicted by the Brexit, the tariff war between the United States and China and the hardening of the industrial transition set by the European Union. An industrial policy, that of the Galician Union, with many more shadows than you can see. An industrial policy which placed Galicia at 197 over 268 European territories, sixteen posts less than three years ago, occupying the tenth position of all the autonomous Spanish communities. The Galician Union presents insufficient, continuing budgets without a real wager for employment and industry in our country. Without its own energy model to cope with the industrial crisis caused by decarbonisation, which led companies to announce the early closure of the Meirama thermal power plant and the Bridge thermal power plant. No planning to deal with the situation of these companies; a situation that the Galician Union cannot say it did not know, since it is the two most polluting plants. The German Government has not yet published Galician energy guidelines, which were presented in this House in April 2018. And we don't know where those 12,000 jobs were announced as a result of their plan to the smart transition to the new sustainable model. Now, the Galician Union is dedicated to attacking the Central Government instead of negotiating with Naturgy, with whom it shares shares in several companies, fulfilling the commitment to invest 100 million euros in Meirama. They make virulent criticism of Pedro Sánchez's government while they were silent when Rajoy was ruling, and 2012 cancelled 72 million euros for the recovery of Cerceda and The Bridges. And you, the Galician Union, didn't include these Greek councils in the aid to support mining communities in 2014. That's your balance, that's your results. The data, again the data, Counselor. Industry has lost 4,400 busy in these ten years. There are fewer in 2019 than those in industry in 2009. The index of industrial production in the month of October in Galicia, on average as of the year, presents a negative rate of -5,5, the second autonomous community with the worst evolution of all autonomous communities. Exports, next year, Comex data, January-September 2019, also tell us that the annual rate of variation decreased by 6.1%, negative, just behind Ceuta, Melilla and the Balearic Islands. In 2018, 509 companies were formed in Galicia less than those constituted in 2016. The Greek Government fails to capture private investment, with which its performance is limited to following Spain's growth, while we export skilled work and Greek capital; with a government unable to increase employment or productivity, making it impossible to gain competitiveness and hence boost exports to other markets. Faced with this reality, the Galician Union presents budgets which do not introduce sufficient measures to promote and support the key productive sectors. You voted 'no' to 88 amendments tabled by the Socialists who, together with the transversal amendment, mobilized a total of EUR 188 million, to increase action to encourage the dynamisation of the productive and industrial sectors, particularly in the field of enterprises in particular difficulties. A plan for a fair energy transition, with the participation of the Galician Union in joint programmes of the affected regions; 6 million euros to which you voted ‘no’. A plan for the reinforcement of the electro-intensive industries; 6 million euros to which you voted ‘no’. A training plan in metal-mechanical sectors to which you voted ‘no’.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u56	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u57	A feasibility action plan for companies in crisis to which you voted ‘no’. A plan for dynamizing business soil or for raising investments you voted on ‘no’. And a management plan for rural business development, in which they want to dismantle, to which you also voted ‘no’. They don't bet on small trade, they don't bet on the impulse of the productive sectors and they don't support the recovery and boost in R & D with the aim of recovering the levels of public funding that existed in 2009, under Emilio Pérez Touriño's mandate. Equally, the disinterest of the German Government is total. It is absolutely clear from these budgets that fighting against male violence is not a priority for this government. There is an increase based simply on the increase in the contributions of the State Covenant against Gender Violence; 8 million more than the imposition of measures which, in any case, are still insufficient.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u58	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u59	I'm done, Mr. President. We won't get tired of saying that: the economic impulse must be bigger, much bigger, and the Union can't hide behind the State's involvement in not pushing in the same direction. I don't have much time left, I don't think I'm practically none left, but I just want to make a final point. With regard to infrastructure, it is a pity that a government that has been running for almost eleven years, and an Infrastructure Adviser who turns its presence into commission to present the 2020 budgets in a political rally of the PP against the Central Government, with the sole objective of hiding that this dwindling council is the least growing of all budgets in the coming year...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, your time is up, please. You know today the whole thing comes... it's over, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, I was talking about demography because you put it as an example that most sovereignty does not negotiate with opposition to demography. And precisely demography is a sufficiently complex subject, so that we are all quite humble, let's see how population changes in provinces, municipalities, the community as a whole and in Spain as a whole, and see if we can improve the proposals that are already being developed and add something that will allow this demographic recovery. In any case, I also want to remind you that we've been criticized for rural gambling, and they say that we haven't invested enough in rural areas, when the Socialist Group, in the transversal amendments, asked us to withdraw EUR 7.9 million from the Rural Council. So I'd try to be careful. Just like it was a shame we hadn't cleared up that phrase with which his first intervention began. He literally said who can't make budgets at the same time can't direct the country. I guess I wouldn't be thinking of Mr. Sánchez, who couldn't make any budget. I say! [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, I'm glad you're calling me a teacher. As you know, there are many countries where, when you get to the doctorate, you're a teacher. From that day on he is no longer a lord and he is already everywhere professor-doctor, something that in this House at this time we would only share two people. Of course, it's something that seems very good to me, I feel honored. Besides, I'm honored that it's you who remind me that I've been a teacher, because it means that, as a teacher, as far as I'm concerned to promote the critical spirit of my students, I've really won with you. [[Applause]] Having said this, I also have to say that, fortunately, I have many more students who have also assimilated my knowledge of economics and who engage and are in the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Applause]] They were talking here about hijacking. The only thing I didn't say is that the people who are demonstrating are populist. I didn't say that, and you did. I hope it was a mistake and not with bad faith. What I said was that you had a clearly populist speech, and that's what I keep. Moreover, I gave him a reference quote as to how a populist can be detected, when spoken in the economic sphere. French teachers say -- if you read the book, you'll see that they're not at all neoliberals or anything like it -- that when you talk about any economic measures that are taken without taking into account what technicians think about, what happens is that it's playing the game to the rich and multinationals, it's a clear way of detecting that we're facing economic negationism. That's just what I said, and I think the comment on the amendments I made before is enough. You say I made a speech full of technicalisms. If you ask, when you want to make a road, who takes the money and which road stops doing, that's technical...! If when we say we're going to spend so much on supporting this collective, if you take out the money and give it to another, ask him to at least tell us what it's gonna be like...! Or when we tell them if they want to take the help, the tax benefits, and I ask you to specify whether it's women who have needs or many families, and you don't explain... well, I think this isn't very technical, that's just asking them an explanation! Certainly, in your speeches, it shows that you believe in the public, which I'm not so sure is that you believe in the rule of law, because I told you that the amendments we refused were because they contradicted the State's basic legislation. You don't care, we don't. You believe in the public under all conditions. We believe in the public respecting the rule of law, so when there are basic state regulations, we respect it. They do populism, and often they do it with subjects that should not be done, particularly the question of Verín. By bringing the issue to the budgetary issue, there are two groups that haven't amended anything in relation to the Verín Hospital, which are the Joint Group and the Socialist Group, none of these two groups specifically amend with the Verín Hospital; and there are two amendments from the Joint Group for 1 million euros and the BNG for 2 million euros. I'm going to tell you just one thing: we're going to have a debate about the Summer Hospital in this plenary, if you accept the amendment you're talking about at the Summer Hospital that presents the People's Party, the 2 million euros will be very short of what the People's Party and the Government of the People's Party will do at the Summer Hospital. [[Applause]] Mr. Lago, I know you want me to let you down, I'll let you down. Year 2009, health expenditure per capita, EUR 1,360. Year 2020, deflated, 1.497. It's more, isn't it? Defacted. Education. Expenditure on per capita education from 2 to 24 years old, 4,387 in 2009; 4,717 in 2020. It's also more, 4,717 is more than 4,387, here and everywhere, right? It's the same with R+D+i, social action and social promotion. He says we're obsessed with cuts. Home, for increasing budgets by 1,400 million euros since 2016 is a very curious obsession." It seems that we must be obsessive to cut down and the first thing we do is to inflate budgets so that we can cut down, because what we like is to cut down. It's an absurd speech. You shouldn't question what our philosophy is, among other things, because when you say you've stopped spending during the crisis, you're perfectly aware of how the tax bases have collapsed, and you're aware that the People's Party has assumed the political cost of raising taxes so that they don't crumble at all; we did it in Galicia and we did it in Spain. And even above all, we've been told that we really raised taxes and fought the crisis that you left us, but it was because we wanted to cut. Look, the truth is, that argument is not understood anywhere. [[Applause]] He said another curious thing: that not including 100 percent of the payments per account — which the system does not allow, and you should know that 95% should be included — is premeditated. Look, I've always blamed the 1,600 million euros of 2009 for the incompetence — recognised by Minister Solbes — of what happened in 2009 in the Government of Spain. Now, you're saying worse things, it's premeditated to send less resources! Would it be premeditated, then, to send us over 1,600 million euros to upset the Greek economy? Well, we're not going around because we're already in the populism of thinking conspiracy theories and so on. You mentioned Airef's report. Airef does not say that Galicia can collect more, or that it says: "It is considered feasible for the Autonomous Community of Galicia to meet the 2020 stability objective or reach the 0.1 deficit envisaged in its project, but with a lower level of income and expenditure to be raised in the autonomic project". What you're telling Airef is that this budget is ambitious, it's going to be hard to reach that level of income. And you say Airef tells us that we can have a lot more income. No, this is Airef's report. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two minutes left. You said everything we voted for, not with your amendments. I want to remember that we're going to vote that it is. We are going to vote for budgets that give stability to the country; indeed, they give us continuity in the face of the crisis. In the last ten years, Galicia has grown in GDP per capita a 9.7; Spain, a 6.5. Over the past four years, GDP has grown by 2.7; in Spain by 2.5. The unemployment fell in Galicia or 21.7; in Spain, 17%. We've managed to overcome the million more members of Social Security. There are 100,000 more members of Social Security. And the forecast for 2020 included in the budgets, which Airef says is reasonable, is that we have managed to reduce unemployment by 10%. Poverty rates, as I mentioned earlier, are better than before the crisis, than there are less poor. The issues of equality, Gini etc. They show that equality in Galicia is much higher than the European average and much higher than the Spanish average, which is worse than the European average. In order not to have strategy, I think it's not too bad, and the fact is that these budgets continue on that line. We are going to support these budgets, indeed, because with them, and despite the fact that we are in an uncertain world, with complicated prospects in international trade, with complicated prospects for a brexit that we do not know how it will go and with complicated perspectives at national level because we do not know what budgets or what government will be, at least, in that uncertain world, and despite all the difficulties, here we have some budgets to continue growing, creating jobs, guaranteeing public services, minimizing and reducing debt, and all this, indeed, within a plan, of the Strategic Plan for Galicia in 2030, which yesterday began to prepare its work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u62	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Articulated debate
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u63	We are now continuing the debate on the articulation, in this case, with the turn of the parliamentary groups to explain the position on the Commission's dictatorship and to defend amendments, if so. We started with the Joint Parliamentary Group. In this case, Mr. Casal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u64	Good morning. I want to first greet all the people in Verín who aren't here because they're out, with whom all my comrades and groupmates are. Mr. Puy, I didn't know that you were a demagogy, because saying that we didn't present any amendment by the Parish when you closed the Parish after the deadline for presenting amendments seemed a little... because they were divine! [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I'm not at least a health expert, but I wasn't guessing they were going to do that barbarity before I closed the deadline for amending. Well, the fact is, maybe it was the same thing that we tabled amendments. I'm sure the amendments he says were rejected if they were presented. We were rejected by the 282 amendments, both those of the articulated law, which were 38, and those of the spending states of the budget sections, 244. Well, probably if we had time to guess that you were going to do that barbarity of closing the mating would be 245, and they would also refuse it. The truth is that it could be understandable to all this global rejection, since our amendments, indeed, are a proposal by a more just Galicia, which really thinks of its real neighborhood, its urgent problems and its future of progress, and not as it happens with its bureaucratic budget, spinach, lack of concrete ambition and objectives, which gives back all the emergencies of citizenship. For you - of course - there are no such emergencies in this happy Arcadia that sell us continuously in this political strategy of permanent press rounds. Well, no, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the repeated lies -- yes, very well sold by public television that you control with iron and all private means, very well-adjusted by gifts by their government -- the only thing they do with these policies and with those press rounds is to find guilty all that happens to us. It's all the fault of outsiders -- basically the government of the state, also others -- or they also have the recourse to fatality, as if the problems and injustices in Galicia were a meteorological phenomenon or a divine punishment. It is closed, for example, to what we were talking about -- the birthplace of Verín because there are no children and no children and because there are no pediatricians, and so the president of the board clearly explained: that if the children and girls are not born, that if the pediatricians don't want, that there are no people, that there are no girls or boys who want to be pediatricians in Galicia... but the reality is that you stay there, and don't wonder why, and an budget has to go to the causes. What are the causes that children and children are not born in Verín or that there are no pediatricians who want to go to work in Verín or that there are simply no pediatricians in all of Galicia? [[Murmurs.]] Will it have anything to do with the policies and, therefore, with the budgets of the last ten years of the People's Party both in the Government of the State and in the Council of Galicia? Will it have something to do with it? Did no one think pediatricians would retire? It seems that in ten years no one thought so. Well, you should know that 4 out of 10 pediatricians are over 55 years old. In other words, if by chance they are still ruling somewhere -- in Galicia and in the state it seems not, but perhaps in Madrid, in Andalusia and elsewhere where they are now in the Government -- they might think that pediatricians retire. And they also leave Galicia. Do you know the statistics -- and you can't deny it, because even the closest media you've published in the middle of last year -- that every week 10 specialists, mostly pediatricians and family medicine leave? Every week! That gives about 550 a year. There is also another data that refers to that statistic: that many of these pediatricians prefer to work in private rather than in public. And why? Let's go back to the causes. Why? They don't care because they're sick of public health? I don't think so, because they're truly people with principles, as you can see in all those who work in public health. Won't it have anything to do with the conditions of doctors and doctors who cover replacements, the most common way of accessing the profession? Guards up to 17 hours, some on Monday alone and not entitled to paid holidays. How, in this situation, aren't you going to go abroad, go to other communities or go to private? These circumstances have led many doctors and doctors to go private or pack up to work abroad. And if you make the decision to leave, it's very complicated and very difficult, to go back -- so we see every time you interview them in the media -- it's even more difficult, because your own families tell you: you don't have to come back, that the conditions here aren't acceptable to a professional like these all. And that's just one example -- that could be extended to all matches -- of how these budgets make a Galicia more unfair, a Galicia with a future black. Our spokesman, Luis Villares, has already done a general political review about the whole budget, and I'm going to focus in a limited way on time on specific things, on alternative proposals. Mr. Puy wanted alternative proposals. In Marea it always proposes alternative things, then they usually think they're occurrences. Well, let's see which one, of all these, looks like occurrences. The reality is that public investment in Galicia with regard to GDP has grown to EUR 3,000 million over what it had been ten years ago. This is an undeniable reality. It is clear, as has already been said at other times in the debate, that recovering those 3,000 million in an budget is impossible. At Marea he made a calculation, we thought he was quite prudent, though Mr. Puy seemed a barbarity; he seemed to invent money. We mobilized 500 million euros, 226 million from generating more incomes -- which I will now break down, because Mr. Puy also asked for it -- and the rest from redeploying less urgent or less concrete games, which prevents their control. Because one of the problems of these budgets is the lack of transparency, the little concrete that's where the money goes. So it's very hard to know if they really make sense and it's very hard to make a posteriori assessment of their implications, of how they affect all the negative indicators we have in Galicia, both from a social and an economic point of view. And it's also a redirection of many headings that really, as has already been repeatedly commented here in the commissions, they never run again. I mean, they're smoke; they're written, black on white, that's right, but they smoke. Among the non-priority, we can mention clearly, even though you reject it from an ideological point of view, a reduction in the increase in concerts with private teaching, because the priority must be to guarantee the right to quality education in public centres; or the canons and concerts with private health, which do not stop growing, as we have seen recently, which are already 96.5% of health expenditure in Galicia. And, of course, private health wants more, they say it's insufficient and they want to go much further. Actually, these 500 million actually are only 5% of the non-financial budget, which may seem very little, but, as you will see, they could give and be the starting point to reverse the negative trend to most emergencies in Galicia. On the income side, we proposed an increase of 226 million, which would come from an improvement in the approaches to the International Compensation Fund, with an amount of 10 million - here you have already been told that you tend to undervalue part of the expected revenue, which is a way of cutting through the back door -; new fiscal measures worth 126 million; a detailed review of the tax benefits of 35 million - and not on the things Mr. Puy and some others proposed that they could really revise -; a plan to fight tax fraud of 15 million euros; and modulate the reduction of net indebtedness by 40 million euros. It is true that we have to go amortizing all that libel of indebtedness which the People's Party leaves to the next Government, but we believe that this reduction could now be limited by leaving another 40 million euros available for truly essential things. I'm going to stop alone in tax measures: an increase in the IRPF tariff in higher tranches and not lose 19 million euros between assets and successions, giving them the richest, who really don't need it; 2 million euros on deposits in credit institutions and a very important amount - which was considered ridiculous as well - of 70 million euros between environmental damage tax on encouraged water and wind canon. It can't be that companies sell the megawatt hour to 60 euros, when the cost of production is below 10 euros; that is, it can't be that if they're taking thousands and billions of euros of benefit every year, fallen from the sky, and we can't pose them really fair cannons, cannons that in any case wouldn't reach even 3% of their income, I say, with truly uncommon benefits. Then - I've summarized - there's tax on large commercial areas and, for example, it's also done a little bit of ground on sugared beverage tax, which we estimate in 15 million euros. Well, in Catalonia they raised 35 million, and proportionally here, by population, 15 million would come out. Maybe this is where you drink less Coca-Cola, I don't know. The reality is that in Catalonia with this tax, it has lowered consumption by 22%, with everything that involves saving health expenses as well. And I didn't know what Mr. Puy said, I assumed 20% increase in bottles of 1 and 2 liters -- that is, around 1 euro -- and 5% in boats. About 50 cents are costing you, for the order of 2.5 cents, and not the barbarities that Mr. Puy has now said. And where to invest all those 500 million euros? Yes, I say, in fundamental emergencies, in climate and environmental emergencies, with an environmental protection plan and a new waste management model. It doesn't make sense that you keep betting on a fully centralized management of Galician waste in the country with the greatest population dispersion. Anyone who hears this couldn't believe it. We're talking about the momentum of the proximity trade and improvements of mobility, essentially to demand the deployment of the neighbourhoods. This is an obvious necessity. Today there was a very curious article in La Voz de Galicia, that the cows are going to see the AVE pass. Well yes, except AVE and more precariousness. With the cost of 10 kilometres of AVE, the whole line going from Ferrol to Coruña, passing through Mine, passing through Pontedeume, Burgo... would solve the problem of the 150,000 vehicles entering the Coruña every day, and, as we heard surprisingly a few days ago, the Coruña is one of the cities with the greatest environmental pollution, caused by traffic, from all over Spain. Also, because of the social emergency, in health care, a plan to improve the guarantee of universal public health, endowed with 81 million euros, would strengthen those staff paintings that at best made more doctors stay in Galicia; a plan for attention and improvement of primary care, with 20 million. It's not reasonable for a hospital like Povervisa to be sold, essential for public health in Galicia, I think it was for 22 or 23 million euros, when in Galicia there would be funds to make it public. And I don't think that's what you said here in this plenary that workers at the Povisa hospital prefer to be in private rather than in the public. Ask them if it's true. Also a oral health plan, a mental health plan, new health centers, a care plan for additive and ludomania disorders. In education, a plan to boost and improve the recovery of universal public education, the expansion of primary and secondary teachers, a plan to start and extend free education from 0 to 3 years. You just want to put it for the second son. Do you know that of all the Greek women who have a child, only twenty-five percent have the socio-economic possibility of having a second child? The statistic just came out two days ago. School eaters, plan to access a universal public university for everyone, because there was no more money to be able to apply this part, instead of supporting the establishment of private universities in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u65	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u66	It fights poverty and social exclusion with one hundred and fourteen million euros; above all, increases in risk in sixty-five million euros. Well, it doesn't give me time to follow... Access to housing, improvements in rural areas amounting to forty-six million euros, attention to feminist emergencies, with plans worth more than forty-five million euros, industrial emergency — it can't be the industrial waste, the fall in peaks of the industrial production index—, the increase of the rocket investments in R & D+i — if spent — a new production model of industry and energy worth more than thirty-eight million euros. And so...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u67	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u68	...for two hundred and four amendments, which, of course, in fifteen minutes is impossible to summarize.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u69	Thank you, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u70	I say, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, there is where to get more money and where to spend them better. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u71	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u72	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. I would also like to greet the political representatives of the region of Verín who accompany us today: the lieutenant mayor of the Town Hall of Verín, the mayor of the Mosque, the concelerator of Oímbra and also the members of the Platform for Public Health of Verín. [[Murmurs.]] I know they're nervous about this, but they're going to relax because there's nothing left... [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] I want to thank you for your presence, your breath and your commitment and your ability to fight. Because, indeed, the budgetary debate is a very serious debate and that of the joint — which we are now discussing on the budget — is also an important and serious debate. But, look, today, there is something more important and much more serious that is outside of this Parliament, which is the dignity of all those districts of Ourense that will not take a step back when Galician Union does not rectify. So they have two options: they can continue to be anchored in pride and excuses or go out into the street, listen to them and yield. [[Applause]] They're already giving in, because from the previous full we've had they've been correcting their own lies. And in the previous debate — when we closed it just a few minutes ago — Mr. Pedro Puy, the spokesman of the People's Party, said that some groups had done their homework. In fact, the BNG has done its homework, and you're going to vote within a few hours against increasing the resources of that hospital by two million more euros, and you're going to vote against increasing the resources of the Valdeorras Hospital as well. He said how sorry the spokesperson of the People's Party — and I think it is important to clarify it if someone who accompanied us heard it — that these millions would be cut short if we accepted an amendment to a motion that was tabled, and so forth, and so forth. He will decide the person who defends that motion, Mrs. Solla, whether or not to accept it, but there are bright ideas that will come to us in that amendment, as they will give him—pay attention!—to the Verín Hospital. But you see, we're not universalizing the cervix tie for all the Greek women? What's the matter, that they thought they'd also cut off that right to Verin's women? If those are the big proposals that make us, as anyone enters a room gives them good days and wants them to still thank you, because of course we didn't buy them. [[Applause]] In any case, we'll see what they do with our initiative, which they haven't amended. I imagine they didn't amend it because before tomorrow I saw a mayor of Ourense walking through Parliament, a provincial deputy, and I imagine that I would try to convince them that they have to vote in favour of the BNG initiative or that they will not break the vote discipline; we'll see. In any case, they have a very great opportunity today even to rectify this decision. And this is what we're talking about has a lot to do with the amendments to the articulate and it has a lot to do with this budgetary debate because, in the end, what we reflect on are those conquered rights that you're vilipendating over this decade and that you're dismounting one to one thinking that they're not going to have a social answer. But of course they have it: social and political. And one way of that political response is to amend, as we have done, this budget articulate—which is not a matter of its backbone—to which we present a total of thirty-six amendments, of which — oh, surprise"— none deserved the attention of the majority group. And this is something that seems very serious to us, because the fact is that if budgets are continuous, the articulate is continuous and continuous is the sovereignty of the German Government at a time which seems very complicated to us. First, because we're already seeing what the results of a decade of government Feijóo are, and the truth is, we have more social inequality today. Reports such as that of FOESSA, which are objective, referred to by the entire scientific community and also politically and socially evaluated, reveal that there are in social exclusion in our country 400,70,000 people; that's nearly 18 percent of our population. They should have fallen in shame, because they also say that poverty is chronicled in our society; that it is chronicled because the system of attention is failing, and that is the responsibility of the People's Party. The result is also that, a decade later, we have less work and worse work. Either we compare the data with 2009 or we compare the most recent data. You think, for example, of employment data last November: unemployment increased by 1,352 people, social security membership dropped by almost four thousand, and over seventy-six thousand contracts were signed. But how do you eat that? Well, with a labour market that is based on precariousness and temporality, that's the result of you embracing the state policies of unclear labour reforms, refusing to intervene in the economy and also turning the public administration itself — as I shall explain later — into a more precarious agent. But the result of these ten years is also a huge industrial crisis. I spoke before the demonstration that is at the doors of this Parliament for the health services of Verín, but right now workers and workers in the Bridges are also demonstrating for a huge crisis, and you will also vote against your proposals. And all this in a process of economic weakening which is enormous, which is in industry but which affects other sectors, such as trade itself. As far as legislation is concerned, four thousand establishments have been lost in our country; they go to one thousand establishments a year, and not only does the Government deserve any kind of attention, but they also tell us that by magic art domestic consumption will be activated by 2020. And the result is also — and that you have to see a lot of the regulations laid down in this articulation — the emptying of public services. We'll also talk about health, education, public administration itself, the state they're in. Second, I also want to pretend that it's very dangerous for you to present us with an absolutely repetitive articulate, because it shows that you're isolated in your ivory tower and that nothing that happens on the planet has to do with the board of Galicia. The articulation of a budget law cannot be the same in this historical context that three years ago, that there are four, that there are five, that there are seven or that there are eight; that reflects that the Greek Government is doing is ignoring a very delicate context. They're ignoring a brexit that when we started to see the budget text it wasn't safe but now it's safe; they're ignoring a huge trade war already on planetary level; they're also ignoring symptoms of obvious economic slowdown. But the most serious thing is, after their passage through the Galician Union, the ability to resist adverse cycles of the majority of society and public services themselves is at a time worse than when you arrived in 2009, but also than when this Parliament was formed in 2016. And that's what doesn't correct this articulate, which offers nothing new. So in our thirty-six amendments, what we propose is a change of course and an alternative model. Because — as we have also stated in previous debates — we are very critical and critical with this political framework that limits our budgetary capacity, which limits the ability to decide in which we spend our resources or that it has an absolutely infreded funding system that makes us lose more than €3 billion each year simply because you didn't want to bother Mr Rajoy since 2014 to negotiate a new one. But yet, we understand that with this political framework there would be a correction, a different roadmap; and that's what we propose in this articulate. Starting with increased collection. We defend and continue to defend in our amendments — and we complement it also with the amendments to the accompanying law that will then defend my companion Olalla Rodil — that it is necessary to increase the collection and that there is margin to do so, because another issue that you have shown us in these last four years and also in this last decade is that your fiscal policy is absolutely regressive. I'm no longer going to extend these new tax gifts to the rich who make us this time, but I'm just going to point out a question that seems relevant to me. If we see both the past few years and the historical series, what is clear is that indirect taxes — which are the most unfair ones because they do not take into account the economic situation of each other — only increase their weight in budgets, and by 2020 it is estimated that more than thirty percent of income will come along that path. At the same time, the direct ones lose their capacity to act, just as during this time the IRPF — the main tax — has lost progress with the latest tax reforms. So with these amendments, we intend to reflect that there is a clear need to increase resources for our community. And that's because we need those resources to then change the policies that define budgets and really give priority to the resources that strengthen the public against the private. Public services first of all; so we amend this Article one more year, which is absolutely harmful to credit adequacy. This article basically reflects the spirit of this article 135 of the Spanish Constitution that constitutionalists changed on a night of passion in 2011. We frontally reject that spirit and we understand that what is sustainable, what is stable, what is a guarantee of good budgets is that they anticipate public spending and services such as health care, such as education and how dependence continues to put money in the bank. That's our priority, and of course we reject this article 9, which is anti-social and which is also anti-auto-government. Because, of course, during these days, we've heard a lot of again about seven hundred million of them. We will also debate again in this Parliament on this issue, which we believe is important, but what we are concerned about are two issues: the People's Party repeatedly says it will not cut off. We have an economic scenario of uncertainties, which will not affect us. Then they say they won't cut off whatever happens to the seven hundred million. But, of course, since it is fashionable today to talk about the other initiatives that we are going to discuss and since Mr Puy has already been rejoined to the session, we are concerned that there is a non-legislative proposal by the People's Party to justify urgency because they say that it is endangering the proper provision of public services dependent on the Galician Union; we are concerned about this issue. If you have a commitment that public services will not be cut by anything that happens to negotiations with the central government, because you accept this amendment from the BNG, you are compromised by what has not been committed either at the time of GDP growth, you are promised that you will not diminish under any concept the essential public services shares. If you have to cut, instead of cutting pediatricians and parrots, you'd better cut them in the Xacobeo 2021, gentlemen of the People's Party. In any case, we understand that they will reject this question again because its roadmap is clear: that the weight of the public is getting smaller and smaller. We defend the opposite, and that's why we also present this amendment number 25, not to increase the educational concerts, in the opposite direction of what you've been doing; that amendment number 22, to cut down also on public-private collaborations. This amendment alone defends itself by setting an example on the table that is currently on the table this 2019: Poor. Only by saying that Povervisa in this Parliament should be sufficient for them to pass this amendment, which makes it possible to put an end to this drift from losing public weight in fundamental aspects such as health which is increasingly undeniable. This very last week, the employer of private health, in addition to asking for a higher rate, was out of work, certifying that they already account for 26.5% of the hospital care in this country, something that should be embarrassing to them. In any case, there's another question where we also focus on an important amendment battery, a very necessary amendment battery, which reflects all this loss of the public against the private that you sponsored in this decade and in this legislation, which is all that reaches the public staff, and here I'd like to stop a little before I'm out of time. It's obvious that public services are not supported by air; it's obvious that they are largely supported by public workers. That's why we want to denounce once again that today the Galician Union is a more precarious agent. The People's Party not only took advantage of the growth of the macroeconomic framework from 2014 onwards to restore rights, to restore staff and to improve conditions, but also in the opposite direction. That's what the little letter of the budgets says, and that's what it says -- I hope this year they don't dare deny it again -- the Galego Institute of Statistics itself. It is obvious that the government of Nuñez Feijóo has served to cut stable staff from the Administration; today, we have almost 2,000 less people working in employee positions — from January 2009 to January this year. It's very important because, besides, if we look at where the descents are, it's precisely at stable jobs; that is, regular staff, career or fixed jobs. The fall is very important in these areas. And where it grows, on the other hand, it's precisely in the temporal spheres. That's something you also see very well in teaching. Today I also want to take advantage of the amendments we introduced to the teaching staff; a teaching staff that had to be closed in the Council so that you could attend, a teaching staff that was also showing up last week, asking for more time to do their job better. You come back again, for the second consecutive year — at least they could disguise the headlines a little bit — to announce the greatest OPE in history,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u73	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u74	...the greatest OPE in the history of teaching, which creates zero squares, this place! And that's more, if we compare the number of teachers that's going to be there in 2020 with what happened in 2019, what we have is that they eliminate forty-five, and if we do that comparison since they got to the government, it's over five hundred. So, in short, we amend this articulate one more year because we understand it's the opposite of what this country needs. It deepens on the weakening line of the public muscle, both in public services and in the public employment system itself, and we understand that it prioritizes the payment of debt and the payment of demands coming from Madrid in response to the social needs in this country, that every minute you follow in San Caetano does not stop increasing. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Joint Left Group, Mrs. Torregrosa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u76	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies. Counsellor, we are here reaffirming ourselves in our fifty-nine amendments — fifty-eight remaining to which they had to accept — to the articulated text of the draft budget law for this end of the legislation. What are they saying then with this negative? That his sovereignty has no limits. The measures that will be adopted today with its absolute majority apply the same anachronistic, lapsed revenue, which suffocates economic growth, without hearing and without rectification despite accumulating the worst balance of Galicia's democratic history; a grave balance of increasing public debt, inequality and reduced employment and public services. Its economic results are worse than that of the government of Emilio Pérez Touriño but also worse than those of the governments of Mr Fraga. It is hard enough to say this, but indeed the average growth rates of Mr Fraga's government — from 1996 to 2004 — were 4%; with Touriño, 4%; and with Mr Feijó's government in front of the Government of the Union, only 0.5%. In a context of maximum warning in the macro environment — according to which the economic and financial report of your budget project itself indicates — the growth of real investments is 1.1 points below the overall growth of non-financial expenditure. It presents an increase in non-financial expenditure of 3% over the initial appropriations for the 2019 budget; an increase of 299 million euros that does not even allow you to achieve the level of expenditure ceiling that you yourself proposed from the Galician Board last October. But more than that, of these 299 million euros of increase in non-financial expenditure, 266 million corresponds to current expenditure; almost nine out of every 10 euros of the increase in the budgets of the Union over 2019 are intended for the operating expenditure of the Administration itself. In current terms, the non-financial expenditure contained in this budget project is still EUR 395 million under the budget received by Feijóo in April 2009. But if we look in real terms — which is how the figures on macroeconomic developments should be viewed — the non-financial expenditure planned for 2020 represents a real cut of EUR 1,958 million in relation to the 2009 budgets. If we subtract operating costs, what we're left as an increase in non-financial expenditure is just EUR 39 million: 18 million for real investments and 22 million for capital transfers. That is the great impetus to the investor effort with which the Union will dynamize the 2020 economy in the Government of Galicia. As we have already said in our amendment to the whole, this draft budget law is therefore totally insufficient to even think of beginning to turn around a few cuts that over ten years have been undermining the core of a state of well-being that was already very incipient. They therefore insist on the wrong neoliberal strategy of public sector weight loss in the economy. Its budgets are lacking growth alternatives that replace the external demand pull of recent years — non-financial expenditure grows below the nominal GDP growth estimated by the Galician Union for the next year. They're continuityists, they're restrictive, they're antisocial. They continue to implement the same austerity policies that explain the current state of deterioration of public services. That's politics, that's their strategy: to dismantle public services and then to sell them to the private sector at the cost of balance. Their policies are truly a master of how to promote precariousness, unemployment, inequality, energy poverty, the abandonment of rural areas, predation, the aging of the population. By encouraging what? Well, by encouraging the tax benefits of great fortunes on employment incomes and reducing social investment to a minimum. And what is the result that the Greeks and the Greeks are suffering in their daily lives? Why do our amendments call for an essential investment increase? Because our country can no longer endure the precarious years of the public system, which already directly affect the thresholds of fundamental rights and a dignified life. One in five people in Galicia — some 45,000 — are in a state of exclusion. They only improve data in severe exclusion, but not because it improves the situation, but because the population set impoverishes and therefore distances are shorter. We're going to a Galicia at two speeds: a minority that has all the wealth of the country in front of the rest, which has enormous difficulties in being able to live decently. It's not AVE or nearby; now it's AVE or walking. This is clearly expressed in the AROPE report. Your policies have impoverished the population as a whole, with the exception of those already privileged, whom you favor with your specific tax benefits. Their policies can only teach lessons about how to promote inequality. As today in Galicia 1% of the population accumulates an increasing percentage of income while 30% of the workers are already in the category of poor workers, and as the income of 1% of the IRPF's declarants is in Galicia equal to the income declared by 31% of the people with less income, you decide to voluntarily give up more than 450 million euros — close to 380 million euros — of contributions that will no longer enter by succession tax and by property tax. Since their budgets are the most social in history, they actually target nine hundred million less to social policies than in the 2009 budgets. They can also set an example of how to destroy jobs. You are the worst government in terms of employment in Galicia's democratic history. During the Laxe government, 11,000 jobs were created; during the Fraga government, 70,000; and during the Touriño government, 37,000. But you were able to destroy 54,000 jobs in Galicia these ten years. From the second half of 2009 to the second half of 2019, from 1,154,000 people employed in Galicia to 1,100,000, but you persist in the same political lines. With these figures, their employment policies continue to be 43.2% below the 2009 initial budgets in real terms. You are a real danger to employment. If we combine all this with the failure of the Galician entrepreneurship strategy, which presented self-employment as the solution to all the problems of the Greek labour market, today we have to lose 40,000 workers on our own — that without taking into account the drama increased by the social deprotection of this sector. Despite this situation, you insist on repeating the policies that have provoked this situation and do not meet the demands of the opposition to change the course of labour policy. That is why they voted against our proposals to invest EUR 69 million in a shock plan to reactivate our labour market based on four fundamental axes: employability of long-term unemployed, employment plan for unemployed people over the age of 45, a female employment plan to avoid the wage gap and the gap in female unemployment with regard to men and a plan to combat precariousness. Today we not only have fewer jobs, but it's worse quality, with less wages and worse working conditions. In Galicia, one of the two workers is precarious, or because he's a temporary worker or part-time worker or because he has less income. The high rates of temporality in Galicia danced by the productive and economic model fostered by its government but also by a high degree of non-compliance with the regulations. That is why it is essential to achieve control mechanisms — which we also ask — to end that kind of fraud. But that's difficult when you're the first to cheat on law, like in health care, in public education or in Galician social services. Its political strategy prevents us from getting close to the objectives of the Europe 2020 Strategy, which aimed at 75% of the population aged between 20 and 64 years of age being occupied. This data today only reaches 66.7%, far away from the modest objective of the Strategic Plan Galicia 2015-2020 — which was set in its own government — which sought to achieve the 70% data. It was so modest that it could only recover half of the lost employment in the period 2008-2014. In the industrial sector, you can also take the prize as an example of how to destroy industrial employment. The loss of 22,000 industrial jobs in the country since the beginning of Feijóo mandates is a real fiasco that demonstrates the lack of strategies of this energy transition government and industrial policy. You've ruined one out of every ten industrial posts in Galicia. Lack of job creation and industrial management, lack of fair tax policies, poor distribution of wealth, lack of understanding of our country's problems, and this situation is no longer sustainable. Mr. Feijóo's policies are causing huge imbalances since his arrival: the weight of wages in GDP has fallen six points, labour income has lost 3,580 million euros compared to 2009. This government was able to pull out the pockets of the working class 3.580 million as they appeared in the press rounds saying they were lowering taxes so people had more money available. It's false, taxes are lowered to the rich. And how do you make up for it? It's made up of cuts and public debt. Their neoliberal policies put our fundamental public services at risk: education, health, dependence. And we don't know how shame they have in presenting these budgets by 2020 saying they're the biggest social expenditure in history. There are nearly 300 million euros less in education, 200 in health care, 209 in employment policies, 162 in housing policies These are the distances that divide us in real terms from the resources destined for these policies in 2009. We are talking about EUR 900 million in real social policy investment. Let's talk here about why they didn't take advantage of any of the amendments to the opposition. Basically, our amendments were consistent with the changes in the set of amendments to income and expenditure states, mainly in three elements. The first is to adapt the revenue that we consider essential and necessary for this change, with an increase in budgetary investment of EUR 560 million, which would come from three fundamental points: the reformulation and updating of participation in the financing model in the territorial compensation fund, the revision of the tax system in Greece and a plan to combat tax fraud. A second point, in our amendments, would be geared towards ensuring public services. For this reason, many of them aim to block the new training of recruitment mechanisms or services through the model of public-private collaboration, and also to reduce concerts in education or health care. And finally, another part of our amendments seeks to recover the collective bargaining of public employees as a unique means of reaching and agreeing on the working conditions of public employees, which so much influence the quality of our services. Finally, we are faced with negative budgets for most of Galician society. They're bad because they don't serve to cope with the changing cycle of the economy; because they favor a social minority that has the most resources; because they reduce the weight of the public sector in the economy; because they don't give solutions to the serious industrial problem that we are suffering and because they don't allow to reduce inequality, precariousness or poverty. We need an expansive budget that grows above nominal GDP to cover the huge gap in public accounts caused by the decade of austerity. Despite what we have heard, it must be said clearly: it is not true that the budget for non-financial expenditure in 2020 is now nearing 2009, it is not. Almost two billion euros are missing — and I'm finished — to recover the level before the recession. The sum of the cuts applied between 2009 and 2020 is EUR 26 billion. I will take advantage of the second intervention to make a point with the most divided amendments, but, as a summary, we want to add that we are against these budgets that exercise the weight force of their absolute majority against the social majority. I'm going to read a small paragraph that seems quite appropriate as an ideological summary and that belongs to a book by Michel and Monique Pinçón, which is called La violence des riches: "What is violence? It is not only that of the blows of fists or knives of direct physical aggressions, it is also that which translates into the poverty of one from another's wealth; that which allows the distribution of dividends while the dismissal of those who produced them; that which authorizes pharaoh pay and millions of euros and SMI revaluations that are counted in cents." That's what we mean by our exposure: quite unfair budgets. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Torregrosa. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs. Porrit.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u78	Thank you, President. Good morning again, gentlemen. We've been hearing it all morning. In fact, this is a repetitive debate and, in a way and measure, useless, because after two months of intense work, after so much time spent — let us say between comments — to discuss and debate in this Parliament on budgets for the next year, at the end we are almost at the same point of departure. It's a certain useless effort that these two months have but, of course, we're going to keep doing it because the Greeks and the Greeks deserve it, they deserve another alternative and that's what we're here for. We are trying to improve your life, because these budgets will be approved today, thanks to the absolute majority of the People's Party and, as usual, with all the opposition against them, will mark your day by day up to the autonomous elections of the year 2020. We reaffirm ourselves in the seventy-five amendments presented to the articulated text, which are a challenge to the budgetary strategy of the People's Party, which has proved to be a failure in all these years. We don't share the diagnosis and disagree on priorities, both on the income side and on the expenditure side. Much more can be done to boost the economy, to reduce inequalities, to increase public services and employment. We don't think they do everything they can. They are continuous budgets, purchasing budgets that do not bet on the social and economic model that Galicia needs and that do not respond to the economic, social and pay problems of this country. And that despite the fact that the People's Party has always ruled with absolute majority, and for seven years with a government of its own political colour in the General Administration of the State, and, in recent years, with positive growth rates close to those existing at the level of Spain. Despite all this, Galicia's economic and social situation has not substantially improved. Already entering the amendments, I begin at the end, by that amendment 75 — an amendment to delete paragraph 1 of the explanatory statement — because we do not share at all that reality that you present. As I said earlier, we do not agree with the diagnosis of the Galician Union, which has an overly optimistic and unrealistic vision of Greek society and economy. It's an isolated Galician union of economic and social reality. And when reality is unknown, it's impossible to transform it. We call for the removal of this heading because in this exhibition you say things like these are budgets that reinforce essential health, education and social services costs, linked to the well-being of the Greeks and the Greeks; they say they are budgets that will allow the implementation of an economic policy aimed at the promotion of business activity; they are budgets that allow citizens to find public services aimed at solving their problems and that provide them with greater well-being for the development of their activities; they are budgets that maintain the high quality of our health system and propose policies directed to the most disadvantaged, to the attention of dependent people and children; they are budgets — in yours — which policies are designed to correct and give a demographic boost to our community. Finally, it's a story. They don't know reality and therefore cannot transform it. [[Applause]] And since we don't agree, I'm going to give you some data from this Galician board management. We talked about demography -- we've been talking about it for a long time this morning. Galicia presents the worst crop balance in Spain: 89 people die a day and only 42 are born. There has never been such a wide distance between the two indicators. According to INE data, 8,426 deaths were recorded more than births in the first half, the worst crop balance in Galicia since it began to record reliable data on that in 1941. The stable and quality employment — as has already been said this morning — is the best formula for dynamizing demography. It's the economy that moderates demography, not vice versa. We're talking about health, a service that is suffering from a severe deterioration due to the harsh policies of adjustments, cuts and privatizations that the Galician Union is applying year after year. If this is reduced to budgetary resources, already on its own, if it is cut to health care personnel, doctors and doctors, nurses, assistants and non-health personnel, and if it privatizes and transfers services, there is no other thing that can be expected than a growing deterioration of care to patients. And taking into account, in addition, the characteristics of the population of Galicia, with an aging population with great dispersion, and with a high ruralization, to correct that, good services of proximity, primary care and home care would be essential. The reality is, behind that triumphal balance of the Council, there are some falsified budgets hidden. People have decreased in public health when their needs grow due to aging; there are fewer professionals, and the public job supply provided is insufficient palliative. The Union promises the same infrastructure it announced in 2019: to complete the health centers of Milladoiro and the Road, which have no specific parts, the health center of Vilagarcia or also ghost infrastructures like that of Lalin, which only appears when ruling the People's Party. We are talking about health, precariousness, temporality, rest rates, low wages, loss of rights, one-day or Monday-to-Friday contracts. We're talking about primary care problems or ambulances. We are talking about the closure of the parish of Verín — Mr Puy — it is false that the Socialist Party does not amend this issue; we have presented a specific plan for all the comarcas hospitals. We're talking that the Galician Union, once again, is forced to correct itself thanks to the mobilization not only of citizenship, but also of professionals. Because when these demonstrations are taking place that denounce the deterioration of Welsh health, no responsible politician can remain deaf to this cry. The councilman says, and also President Feijóo, that closure is not a political issue but is due to the lack of pediatricians, which corresponds to the deficiencies in the number of specialists. "He was trying to take his breast, took it from his mother and took it to Ourense." I don't know if this is because of a lack of pediatricians or a lack of sensitivity to a mother who just gave birth to her son. [[Mrs. Porrit Lueiro reads a document.]] They are political reasons, as it is recognised even by the Galego Council of Medical Colleges itself — no suspicion, by the way, of left-winging or defending the public, who deny that the closure of this parish is the result of a medical decision. [[Applause]] It affirms this entity that, by no means, the closure of the parish priest of Verín is a result of a political decision. We're talking about the closure of a wall that makes it even more obvious the suspension of Galician Health Board. We are talking about the failure of government policies to address poverty. I know they don't share the figures, but I'm going to hit them. We have 41.6% of the population of Galicia who are in a situation of vulnerability, 27,400 homes without income, an insufficient and outraged risk, excessively bureaucratic and unindivided, which makes Galicia have the second lowest income of inclusion. If we talk about housing in Galicia, exclusion in the realm of housing has gone off. The board definitely pulled the towel in the construction of public protection homes, as well as renting aids. We've had a ski-based housing program and a 41% run. We're talking about employment: we've got more and more poor workers in a labour market where the culture of timelessness and part-time involuntary work prevails. The reality — as my partner has already said — is that the industrial employment rate falls, and the youth employment rate is lower than Spanish. We export talent, that better-formed generation. And women, along with youth, are the most suffering collective, and suffer with more virulence. Last year, in the face of the greatest rise in the history of the interprofessional minimum wage, there were many criticisms, these alarms were skipped. I was going to generate unemployment, I was going to expel unskilled new people from the labour market, but the reality is that unemployment has diminished, employment has grown and, most importantly, today we have 87,000 workers and workers who have benefited from that increase. The Galician Union moves funds that are 16% of GDP and should therefore be the largest employer in the country and also be the reflection for economic agents. They left behind 368 million euros in the most important job promotion games. I repeat that they do not know reality and therefore cannot transform it. And already entering the rest of our amendments, amendments tabled to try to correct this wrong diagnosis, we can talk about a first block that has to do with transparency and good government. The Government of Unity is not an instrument of action but an instrument of mere publicity. The Government announces a purpose but then does something else thanks to the constant budgetary changes; budgetary changes that are the executive's decision, and in addition there is no real execution of the expenditure. We tabled a lot of amendments: from 1 to 17, to 33, to 37 -- I'm not going to report them all -- They are amendments that have to do with these budgetary changes in which we call for information to be moved more rapidly to parliamentary groups, which seek to comply with that Law of transparency and good governance; that these changes are carried out by means of a reasoned report on the need; and, above all, to inform Parliament of its need and justification. We're talking about office staff, nominative grants, advertising and propaganda. In this first block, an amendment, Amendment No. 55, has been accepted, which has to do with reporting on the amendments of the Galego Institute for Economic Promotion, Xesgalicia or Sodiga. The sad thing is, really, we have to ask for it. A second block has to do with public employment. All these amendments are aimed at recovering the quantity and quality of public employment. It's no use opening up new hospital plants or reforming paritories like the one in Verín if they then tell us there's no staff. These are amendments that we support the negotiating role of trade unions, collective bargaining; they are amendments in terms of recruitment, redistributive regime, development of the second convention. And here I want to refer to Amendment No. 67, in which we ask that the suspension of Article 19 of that V collective employment agreement be left without effect. Even the People's Valedor report recommends that negotiations be resumed. A third block has to do with public services; public services that are directly related to the above, as public employment directly affects coverage of such services. This is why a public job is needed to meet the needs of our country, to meet the needs of citizenship, and that is why there is a need for increased risk, dependency, and progress in freeness. And here we can talk about Amendment No 70, where we ask that the extraordinary benefits for pension recipients be not less than EUR 200, and not that upper limit that sets out the text; also Amendment No 71, so that the Welcome Card will take effect within a month; and Amendment No 74, so that the Rising applications will be resolved within a maximum of two months. We bet on the reinforcement of the public, and that's why we also present amendments to the management form. We bet on public university and absolutely oppose the creation of a private university, which goes against the principle of equality. Investment in public services is clear that it is insufficient - and then we can talk openly about taxation -. A fourth block has to do with work rights. In this block we present, just like last year, an amendment that has a lot to do with equality, with breaking that glass roof, because women are 52% of the population, but the figures don't reflect it. We also tabled an amendment concerning the salaries of the board of directors...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u79	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u80	...amendment 64 — already concluded, Mr President — in which we call for the possible remuneration to be conditional upon that none of the sex members of the boards of directors may exceed 60%. A fifth block has to do with local corporations. Last year we said that the Galician Union invites and the municipalities pay, and this year we can repeat it. They are amended to strengthen corporate funds and transparency in distribution and grants. And now, since I don't have time, I'm going to leave the last part for the second round. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Porritt. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u82	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we've been debating budgets for two months, and the truth is, today, which is the last day, will allow me to repeat something we've been saying from the People's Parliamentary Group all this time. Galicia has introduced, Galicia will approve today and Galicia will implement its budget for 2020 in time and form. It may seem normal, but the truth is that in Spain, Pedro Sánchez is something unpublished, only surpassed by the Community of Andalusia last Friday. That's the reality. To approve budgets in time and form became in Spain by Pedro Sánchez to something exceptional. Today we approve the fifth budgets of the Galician Union at this expansive stage of the economy; expansive budgets. So we believe that this recreation of the opposition groups of an apocalyptic Galicia is out of place, that I have to tell them it doesn't exist. You live and want to live in an apocalyptic Galicia where everything goes worse, but only you live in that apocalyptic Galicia. It is true that there are risks and threats to the future, but it is also true that most of these risks and threats come from the political instability that the Socialist Party and its hypothetical, future, government partners. I have to tell you that to deny the economic recovery that Galicia lives is not only to criticize and deny the efforts of the Government of Greece, but also to criticize the efforts of the whole of Galician society over the last few years to bring our community, our country, out of the economic crisis in which we have been subject to irresponsible governments like Rodríguez Zapatero's during all that stage. The reality is that here is a government that governs and in Spain we have a party that is in the government ruining what they did before they arrived. [[Applause]] So, at this point in the debate, I think three questions should be asked. The first: what did the Government and the majority of Parliament propose to support it? The second: what proposed the four minorities of the opposition? And the third one, therefore: which model is better for Galicia? The Government has brought to the House some accounts that keep the fear fixed in the course and that the Greeks have validated up to three times in the polls: in 2009, and validated and revalidated in 2012 and 2016. A path that allows us to walk on the path of economic growth and the path of unemployment. (E)/It is therefore a model evaluated in the polls and evaluated also with data and results; a model based on lower taxes, lower debt, increase investments, betting on culture, especially in the preparation of the Year 2021, with greater effort in social policy — the greatest effort in social policy in our history — and with the greatest effort also in public health in the entire history of our autonomy. Those are the budgets you will vote against today. So, by summarizing it in two ideas: the Board brought up an budget designed to satisfy the concern of most of the Greeks, an budget planned for Galicia for the next twelve months, but also for Galicia for the next twelve years. It is true that it is very difficult to say on the part of the parliamentary left this argument because you, who are unable to maintain your criteria, your principles, not even twelve days, will understand that this government and this parliamentary majority think of Galicia for the next 12 months or the next twelve years? Less than twelve days was the time that it took Pedro Sánchez to say that if We could enter the Government he could not sleep; it was the time that it took him to accept the entry and conditioning of independentists into the Government of Spain. So with those references, with the references on the left at the national level, it's normal for you not to be able to recognize a serious political project, a rigorous political project, a coherent political project, even if we put it in front of you and explain it to you for the past 12 months. What do you propose to the opposition? Well, basically, the opposition does what it does is to propose the usual one. One more year the best criticism of opposition groups is to say that these budgets are continuing. The opposition surprises him that the Union perseveres in the revenues that have brought economic growth and that have allowed unemployment to be lowered in our community. The opposition surprised him that Junta persevered in the recipes that converted Galicia into the community of reference throughout Spain in the management of public accounts. The opposition, in short, surprises the Union to persevere in the revenues it bets for the improvement of public services year after year. You, who do not understand that this government is continuing in its successes, if they are continuing in its failures; in those failures that have led them to the electoral defeats of all electoral appointments so far. You have now brought, yes, a little of the usual. They insist on hitting a tax sabula on all the Greeks; 700 million euros is what they want to raise in taxes on the Greeks, and they insist on ruling without pens, without sheets, without telephone and insist on creating taxes with which other communities have already been disauthorised by justice, such as those of sugared beverages. By insisting, they insist on this absurd practice that they do every year — and we will see in a little while — that they present amendments to the budgets and then vote in favour of the amendments of the other opposition groups, even if they are contradictory to theirs. You are an opposition which, of course, of course, makes little sense. [[Applause]] Three amendments to the opposition were directly incorporated into the budget law, and a transaction was reached with another amendment from the Socialist Group; four over 200 amendments. The truth is that it may seem little permeability on the part of this group, but I think it's necessary to nude and explain the content of the amendments that have presented the opposition. In the case of the Left Joint Group, 36 out of 59 amendments - i.e. 61% of the amendments - are the same as they presented last year, and we have already rejected them - cut and paste -. In the case of the Socialist Group, 51 of its 75 amendments are identical to those we've rejected in the previous year, 68%. In the case of the Mixed Group, 31 of the 38 amendments they present are based on those presented by the extinct En Marea group, i.e. 81%. The Mixed Group is more faithful to the original Tide than the Common Left Group, which remained in the Tide. What a circus you've got riding! And in the case of BNG, 32 out of 36 amendments -- i.e. 89% -- are exactly the same as we rejected last year. I mean, they didn't work much. What they did was go to the archive, cut and paste and present. That's the reality of the great effort that has developed the opposition for these two months. So globally, three quarters of the amendments to the opposition are already, from the very first moment, deliberately unacceptable, unless we were expected to have a diametrical change of criteria, which, of course, we do not practice. They are amendments registered for this, rejection, and indeed they have found rejection. There would soon be a total of 58 amendments that we could consider new ones, this exercise, and yet some of them are changes in total income states, tax benefits or tax collection, which actually vary numerically over the past year but which, in philosophy, maintain the same formulation and therefore the same answer. We don't believe in your income estimates, we don't believe in your fiscal proposal, and therefore we prefer to maintain the budgetary balance that you propose the bill that sends and sends the Government. Some are not accepted for lack of political will, but for some institutional loyalty. Social action increases for public employees who propose several groups explicitly contradict the basic state legislation, contravene the law in force. They don't care. They know, in addition, and they don't care exactly. Others are not accepted because they are redundant with another legislation, such as that which requires that this Parliament be sent information on public procurement which is already available, not for the groups, for all citizens, on the platform of public contracts in the Galician Union, thanks to the transparency law we have approved and which, of course, did not count on the support of the group presenting the amendment in the same direction. I mean, you contradict yourselves and permanently. The Socialist Group also proposes a series of regulations on the Contingency Fund which are not appropriate for them to be in an annual vigil law, such as that of the budget, because they already appear in an indefinite vigil law as is the Financial and Budgetary Regime Act. Surprisingly, the Socialist Group even calls for the abolition of the transitional provision on the allocation of the fund, despite the fact that the legislation on budgetary stability gives a clear mandate that it must be given. They don't care. They don't care. Others come from ignorance. This is the case of the Joint Left Group, which asks us that in the staff article dependent on instrumental entities we include coastguards, which do not depend on any instrumental entity. That's the rigor of your amendments, the rigor of your speech. By the way, you come today saying that less speeches and more resources. For that is what we do in the budgets of the Galician Union by 2020. Depending on 454 million euros. In 2009, when you ruled, would it be more? No, it was much less, 266 million euros. To the family and to the children in 2020 we will devote 160 million euros. How much did you teach when you were ruling? 106 million euros. Inclusion we add 120 million euros. How much did you do? EUR 87 million. Actually, less speeches and more resources, that's what we're going to do. [[Applause]] Mrs. Torregrosa, the truth is that I have to tell you that the text that you have been prepared is very good, but it's hardly a good thing to listen to the group you represent defending industrial employment when they come to this plenary asking for the permanent closure of companies. You protest Mr. Lago, who is the author of the text, but then you don't come here to defend him. That's the reality. [[Murmurs.]] You bring the taxes down to the rich, but don't say questions that don't stand up...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u83	Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u84	About IRPF...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u85	Quiet, please. Please be quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u86	We lowered the IRPF to the low incomes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u87	Quiet, please! Please, shut up! All of you! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's it. I didn't hear any insults. Mr. Lake and Mrs. Prado, please! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's go on. This is the budget debate. Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. Quiet, Mr. Cal, please! Mr. Tellado, continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u88	They say we lower the taxes to the rich. But if we kept the autonomic frame of the IRPF guys exactly the same as the high strata! The lower ones are the lower ones. We did, you didn't. So, here's a lot of propaganda, but the speech is not held, tell whoever says it, say Mr. Lago, tell Mrs. Torregrosa; this speech is not supported empty of content. You're always talking about dismantling education; we're attacking public education, we're tearing it apart, privatized, all of a disaster! The fact is that when they have the opportunity to make amendments, the Socialist Group proposes an increase of 2.7%, the BNG proposes a 0.5% increase, the Joint Left Group — they are concerned about public education — proposes an increase of 0.1%. Well, look, the reality is that we're raising the education budget by 2.3% by 2020. You're going to teach the other side. [[Applause]] They say that health is fatal, that health is subject to a permanent attack by the Government of the People's Party, that thousands of professionals are missing, infrastructure to dozens and a great deal of resources are missing. The truth is that when they have the opportunity to make amendments, the Joint Left Group increases the health budget by 2.5 per cent, the BNG increases the health budget by 1.5 per cent, the Joint Group by 1.4 per cent, and the Socialist Group, Mr. Torrado, that is an amendment to yourself, which says that it is all so bad, when it has the opportunity to modify the health budget, it adds 1.1 per cent. Look, we went up the health budget about 3.1%. We have the biggest budget in the health of the history of our community. The biggest budget! [[Applause]] A sanity of 4,109 million euros and a sanity that will count in 2020 with 122 million euros more than this year 2019. So it's the highest health budget in Galicia's history. That's the reality. The four minorities of the opposition face the whole parliamentary process of cheating on income — a good example of the rigour that would govern their decisions if they ever arrived in the Government, God does not want it! — and presenting hundreds of amendments that are impossible to approve if we want to maintain the seriousness and viability of our community.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u89	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u90	I want to finish by reminding them that they're not going to vote. At the end of this morning, you will vote against the more social budget in Galicia's history: EUR 7.400 million devoted to social expenditure, 80% of Galicia's budget. You're going to vote for no more youth employment policies. You're going to vote, not at 5% growth in R+D+i. You're going to vote only for the expansion of the Welcome Card. You're going to vote that not a 6% increase in the support resources for the dependency and the doubling of the major's houses. You will vote for the reduction of taxes in rural areas, and you intend to vote for the adoption of comprehensive fire prevention plans. You intend to vote rather than to the biggest budget in the history of our community dedicated to Greek public health. Allah is All-Embracing, All-Embracing, We, of course, are to serve Galicia, not our parties.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u91	Thank you, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u92	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u93	Replica of amending groups to be defined on amendments from other groups. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u94	Yes, Mr. Tellado, we voted no. We vote not because we really think about Galicia, not within twelve years, within twenty-five years; we think about Galicia in 2050. And truly, these budgets are a betrayal of our children and our grandchildren. How will Galicia be environmentally and territorially in 2050? For, probably, a country subject to large extractive corporations, with the legal changes that we will then discuss in the Tax and Administrative Measures Act. How many Welsh and Galicians will live in Galicia in the year 2050? You know that every day they die in Galicia, 97 middle-aged people and only 43 are born. At this rate — which seems like you don't seem to be a problem and that's why they close bets — there will be 611,000 Galicians and Greeks less in the year 2050, with a level of aging that will make this country unusable. We think about the year 2050, and these policies lead to these results. Mr. Puy's attention was first drawn to us when we didn't make a specific amendment to the Summer Hospital. I have explained that the decision to close and remove pediatric emergencies in Verín was after the closure of the budget date. You actually increase the health budget by 122 million, because what we say is that you can increase by 81 million more. We don't say no to the 122, we say yes to the 203. That's our amendment. And you're going to say no to that amendment. [[Applause]] In addition, we told them where the 81 million euros are coming from: from things as scary as rising a little, about ten, the autonomous rate in the IRPF trates of the richest, 9 million euros in the property tax of those 6,000 richest people in Galicia — I don't think they're going to starve for these 9 million euros —; 10 million euros from the inheritance tax to those who inherit more than 700,000 euros — I don't think they're going to stay in poverty because they have to pay a small contribution to society — and a tax on deposits in credit institutions, also for a few tenths, which would account for about 2 million euros. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, one of the important games is to moderate the reduction of indebtedness -- why, if there are these shortcomings, which everyone recognizes, it seems to you too? -- worth 40 million euros. You say the sugared beverage tax is rejected. In fact, the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia provisionally stopped it. What did a government like the Government of Catalonia do, considering that that money was intended directly for health care? For immediately publish another law that collects the same aspects and corrects the technical and procedural problems said by the judge. That is a government that acts: 80 million euros of this tax for Catalan health. The 15 million we proposed for Galicia will not arrive, and people will again have health impacts on those drinks. There is a paradigmatic case in Chile where the tax is brutal — where it is brutal — has increased by almost 50% the value of sugared beverages. The success and recognition of society is absolute. We also proposed a rural environment recovery plan with an additional EUR 46 million, and we said where they would come from: from cannons to environmental damage to encouraged water and wind canon. It can't be that the big companies, which monopolize the concessions, because neither the Galician Union nor the decree that the People's Party's Government on its day pulled out to boost renewable energies, favored small producers, favored cooperatives, favored rural cooperatives. No, I favored those who were most inclined: if one comes with 1,000 megawatts, he has priority in front of one who asks for 10 megawatts, when it had to be all the opposite, as happens in many countries. And so is all the wind power and all Galician hydraulic power to two companies, mainly to two or three companies, which then return nothing to the well-being in the rural environment. We have set up a lot of initiatives to do with these 46 million euros.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u95	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u96	We also proposed about thirty-eight million euros for very specific things, including fifteen concrete proposals for The Bridges and Meirama, to which you will vote but not. Then they say they won't talk there. Of course they'll talk! They talk to the truckers and tell them they're going to do specific things. Where's the heading on which the transition is going to be possible, the change in the production model of the bridge trucks? Where is that budget departure? I didn't find her. Well, I mean, if you'd like to consider voting aside these fifteen amendments devoted to the fair energy transition...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u97	Thank you, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u98	...why, if not, just for whom?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u99	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u100	Just, perhaps, for Endesa and Naturgy, but for the people of the Pontes and Meirama neighborhoods, of course not.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u101	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u102	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u103	Thank you. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u104	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Tellado repeated a little, but the truth is, at least, he was a little bit committed since he didn't tell us it was heroic to present the budgets of Galician Union. But, since you insist, I insist again: Mr. Tellado, on the lap. As much as they want to make normal an extraordinary and exceptional fact in the world so we have to congratulate them, they don't convince us; they really don't convince us. It is absolutely normal to present the budgets of the Galician Union and we will not congratulate them for their presentation and, less so, for the content, once evaluated, Mr. Tellado. What I'm telling you is that at least you're calling for some internal coherence. Because, of course, we've been hearing here for two months about the contradictions in the amendments to the opposition and I don't know that, I don't know how much, and you guys for the day -- "Galiza, the fog in Pedrafita" -- they say that there will be no kind of repercussions of anything that can happen in the macro environment; in the next paragraph of the budgets they speak directly from a maximum alert section in the macro environment; and then you come to talk to us at an expansive stage of the economy, that it's all wonderful. Anyway, the same government that has lowered its own growth forecast for this 2019. Mr. Tellado, those of rigor like you are not. This reminds the Revuelta song in Kortatu's frenopathic, where the mass assembly meets and decides that "morrow sun." But life is not so simple and economy, neither is it, Mr. Tellado. Then he says they govern and decide these budgets for most of the Greeks. I doubt there is -- and at least that's what objective data tells us -- a majority of Greeks who inherit a million euros every three months. Mr. Tellado, of course, that's not the real Galicia out there; therefore, I should review your own claims a little bit. Then they say the opposition changes every 12 days of criterion. I suppose you were talking about the German Parliament — I don't know if you're still obsessed with Madrid and want to make points for Mr Sánchez to do it. Of course, he says we've changed every 12 days' opinion. No, that's you, which twelve days ago said that there was a security problem in Verín and now it's no longer a security problem, it's already a pediatric problem. There's something we're going to get closer to, and we don't lose hope of continuing to make them see reality. In any case, to me there's a constant in his speech that bothers me especially, which is to say that the opposition doesn't work. Of course, because the articulation of your budgets, which is what we are debating now, is a literary, budgetary and metaphorical innovation! Mr Tellado, it is the same repetitive articulation from year to year, with the same economic spirit; that is why we say they are continuous. In fact, a year later we still want to limit the educational concerts of this country rather than increase them. A year later, we still thought that public-private partnerships should be put together. If that is to be repeated and autocopied, because we will continue to do so, Mr. Tellado, don't worry. When we have a chance to put it into action, we will, too, not worry about that question. In any case, I also want you to stay in the Journal of Sessions that said not to the amendments of political background, but also to those of the most rudimentary because, one more year, we were not blessed and blessed in the BNG that I had accepted this recurrent amendment that we all groups at any time submit with a request that the budget information, or the information of the Igape — as it had already been here — is referred to in some format of the 21st century. We are on our way to begin the second decade of the 21st century and continue to cry out in this Parliament for the Excel. This year they have accepted one, I don't remember anymore whether it was the Joint Left Group or the Socialist Party, but within a year, whoever is in this Parliament, if you continue to govern — that I hope not, even though I won't make an acclamation to God, who am not a believer — I just hope that at least we will move forward to some format of the twenty-first century. But, in any case, this joke is a demonstration that you don't want to talk about. That's why you came here to do exactly what you criticized, that demagogy exercise, and you had to finish talking about the state of expenditure and the cross-sectional amendment, because you had no arguments for articulation. I had no arguments to deny what we say here, which is that in this decade 2,000 fixed jobs in the Public Service were destroyed. He didn't come to explain why...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u105	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u106	....—equally you can ask the teacher for the word—though you may speak of the greatest OPE in history in education, there will be 45 teachers less than in 2019 by 2020 and more than five hundred less than ten years ago. That's the reality you didn't want to lie here, Mr. Tellado. So, of course, we're going to vote no. We're going to vote not that we're still losing public employment. We're going to vote not that public services continue to be emptied as the private sector increases, as is the case with the health data we gave them. We are going to vote not on budgets which from the outset undervalue international economic circumstances. We're not going to vote for any budget that goes on, one more year, that we meet the deficit and that we meet the debt that the Spanish State demands from us, instead of meeting the needs...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u108	...of the Greeks and the Greeks; some needs that, in addition, as we have already said, are growing. So of course we do, that we do not vote, because we say yes to a different Galician. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. For the Joint Left Group, Mrs. Torregrosa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u110	Thank you very much. Mr. Tellado, I understand that, since you [are a recognized machist], he liked my speech, because, obviously... [[(Expression taken from the Journal of Sessions by the President in the light of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure.)]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u111	No, no, no, no. Let's remove that expression. Mrs. Torregrosa, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u112	No, sorry. It was a machismo I had considered...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u113	No, no, no, no. That's what I think it's not like to insult the "machist" insult. We will resume the debate there and remove that expression. [[Protests.]] Quiet, please! I've talked to Mrs. Torregrosa before, and that's not how it is. That's it, please. We will continue the debate, which we must vote in a moment's time. Thank you. Go ahead, Mrs. Torregrosa. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u114	I'm moving on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u115	Mrs. Chao and Mr. Vega, please. Let's finish this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u116	We want to insist...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u117	Please don't trade anything between you. Mrs. Torregrosa is in use of the word. Let's respect who's in the use of the word. It's that simple. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u118	I'm moving on. As already mentioned here, 95% of its joint repeats year after year; so it makes sense that our response is always the same if they don't accept any of the amendments that we have tabled from the opposition. From our point of view, we believe that it will not be possible to overcome the atrophy of essential public services, to take the necessary measures to avoid a relapse into the crisis and to begin to improve the living conditions of the majority of society in Galicia until it is wagered by a strong and sustained increase in public spending. We believe in public spending. The 2020 budget project is totally insufficient to bring about such a change in course. That's why we make our amendments, that's why we make a whole amendment, and that's why we're going to reject it. It's nothing personal against you, on the contrary, it looks like it's against us. Look, by saying a specific example, the only amendment they accepted, which they had to accept, is an amendment which, in fact, only reflects a little bit of what their criticism consists of, showing that their criticisms have no meaning. One of your favorite justifications when they criticize the opposition in general is that we do not agree with budget forecasts and specific games, when we are agreeing on a concrete political vision, but reject it because the precise budget does not match. So I'm going to tell you that the only amendment you accepted from our group, 48, is a technical amendment that only makes it easier, because it's a digital editing tool to avoid the enormous work that involves monitoring budgetary changes between your budgets executed and those approved; it means that it's essential. So, what else can we tell them? I think, Mr. Tellado, that you know perfectly well that all this I just said about needs is true. I think, at the bottom, we'd even agree. So the problem is why they don't agree to amend budgets that already know they're going to make life more difficult this year for a lot of people in Galicia—many of these people might even vote for them. Well, unfortunately, it's because you don't want to see him. I mean, they prefer to invisibility people who, in some ways, can make them out of accounting. Is it absolutely true that you feel so proud that your absolute majority knee will leave, without moving a tab, some budgets that are more than proven to be a failed and anachronistic budgets? It's not something to be proud of; I don't think so. So they want to invisibleise people on foot, street people, opposition; they want to make us disappear. For you they are invisible, so much the families of the Parish of Verín when they manifest themselves, are invisible the patients who are on waiting lists, are invisible the professionals of primary care, the pensioners, the dependents, the young people who in Galicia have to spend 94% of the salary in being able to have a rent, who work in precarious employment; the 14,000 applicants in social housing waiting lists; the professor who claimed on the streets a schedule that allows them to better care for the student; the women who are suffering from macho violence; the families who need conciliation; the Greeks and the Greeks who want a government that defends their own culture and language; the people of the sea, who are increasingly abandoned in front of the great capital and the big company; the people who expect a public transport service. It's also inhibited by people who...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u119	It's over, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u120	...I think there's a climate emergency. You don't care about the environment; sustainable mobility doesn't care either. They want to invisibleise people who pay AP-9. We don't know why. I suppose what you want is to benefit your privileged friends. But we prefer to represent that majority that is right now in the streets screaming for their rights. I'm done with this. As a postdate I would say, Mr Tellado, please leave the habit of solving this country's problems with checks. I think there are other political and other strategies to solve problems other than cheques. It gives a very bad picture. Thank you very much. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Porritt.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u121	Thank you, President. Mr. Tellado, I believe that those who live in a different reality, on that isolated continent to which they refer, are you. But the rest of the Galicians and the Greeks live in the real world, in a world with unemployment, precarious work, poverty and social exclusion. That is why the Socialist Party will not support these budgets, because another budgetary policy is possible. It is possible to correct the shortcomings and correct the wrong priorities of the Galician Union. Actually, talking about negotiating and debating is practically a joke. And I'm going to continue with what remained pending in the previous intervention. I imagine you will change your mind with respect to Amendment No 54, after you have unanimously adopted the non-law proposal tabled by this parliamentary group and debated in Commission on 2nd on 12th. And if I want — to finish by now — to talk about the amended amendment, from Amendment No 36 to Article 37. Year after year, when we present our amendments, we are told that our alternative budgets are not realistic, that they propose more taxes, more debt and more deficit. But on this occasion it was the People's Party who collected in their budgets a deficit of 0.1%. Well, from the very first moment this parliamentary group showed that it was critical to change the criteria in the management of the public deficit, when this year the Government of Greece, the difference in the rest of the autonomous communities, was allowed to have an additional tenth of an additional €68 million deficit in order to avoid being accommodated to the forecasts of the montoro budgets, which are still in force. The explanation was already given to us: the urgency of having additional credit funds for expenditure that they consider necessary only for 2020, taking into account the fact that there will be autonomous elections. Last year there could be a deficit. This group presented an amendment in which it was requested to take advantage of that deficit margin, which was legitimate, and the Counsellor said no. They didn't, and this year they're showing that 0.1% deficit, which they had to fix to save their budgets by resorting to one of our amendments, number 36, transactioned; traded so they wouldn't have to admit they accepted it as a whole. But the truth is, they accepted the literature. Or are they going to use those 68 million euros? Do you agree that the deficit will be 0,1 % or 0%? Are those 68 million going to be dubbed, violating the effective legality? Will Galicia act differently to other autonomous communities? And I wonder why, as I said, literature has accepted it, but the amount of expenditure, these 68 million euros, has not been corrected in the budget. No pattern exposure was corrected either. In the committee Mr Puy said that our amendment 75 was not acceptable because we did not present an alternative text. Well, in the explanatory statement, on page 214, there is still that 0.1% GDP indebtedness. Mr. Tellado, you're the ones who make a cut and catch. The explanation you gave us today we heard it in the commission to Mr. Puy and he didn't convince us then and he won't convince us today either. It's really giving us the reason; we're saying they're continuous budgets and that's why we're presenting the same amendments. He also said, Mr Tellado, that the tax on social expenditure has increased. Don't cheat; let's talk about spending on citizens, because unfortunately the number of dependents is higher and we have an aging and dispersed population that needs more resources. Gender violence was no less, but unfortunately more. What didn't grow was the birth rate and, despite that, we have waiting lists in childhood schools. This parliamentary group has tabled many amendments to the articulation; we have ratified them, and we are not going to support these budgets because we insist that they fail in the diagnosis, and we do not agree with the priorities. You don't know the reality of the country and therefore cannot transform it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Porritt. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u123	Thank you, President. Mrs. Torregrosa, I tell you what happens: Mr. Lago writes to other people what he has no courage to say in full. [[Protests.]] This was done with Mr. Villares and done as it was done. And now don't do it with you! That's what I meant; and that therefore cannot be considered a macho comment. [[Applause]] I'm so sorry! Because we also told Mr. Villares! Exactly the same! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, we're proud to give Galicia the stability that the left parties are not able to give to Spain. In these days, besides, I think it's perfectly clear. We were proud to give Galicia stability and believe that the approval of budgets, in time and in form, is the best demonstration of how to do it. It's true that much remains to be done, and that's why we're working day by day from the Government with this parliamentary majority that supports it and gives it stability. I have to say in this debate that it is to congratulate the Nationalist Block Galego and Mrs. Ana Pontón. Finally, the German independenceists manage to lead the opposition in Galicia. Even though with the worst result of Greek nationalism, that's the reality. That's true; but it's also what leads, in fact, the opposition in Galicia. The tides came out of the track — they were breakers themselves — they decided to start on their own and convert the PSdeG-PSOE into accidental and accidental leader of the opposition. But it didn't last long. Today, once again, the alleged leader of the Greek socialists gave a fresh start; in the most important economic and political debate of the year, Mr. Caballero decided not to participate. He's not! Get out of here! All the voices of the groups except the spokesman of the Socialist Party participated. I would tell Mr. Caballero, if he were here, from secretary to secretary... I would tell him that I sincerely understand that he did not want to debate with Professor Puy of Economics and Budgets of the year 2020; but he did not want to debate with me either. That's how Mr. Knight understands politics. So little respect for Mr. Knight this Parliament... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u124	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u125	...the truth is he managed to get Mr. Leicega out. And, in total, for this: to then not take up their responsibilities and not to participate in this very important debate, not assuming what it was to you as a maximum responsibility. [[Applause]] Today in this debate there are two opposing political models: what the People's Party defends, that of stability, and that of the four minorities that make up the opposition. On the other hand, it's a model committed to Galicia, and on the other hand it's the model committed to Sánchez and yourself. That's the reality. We, committed to employment and to industry and you, exercising accomplices and palmers of those who want to close the electrointensives, those who want to close the thermal power stations, those who want to close Alcohol and Ferroatlantics and those who want to close The Bridges. We, committed to public services and claiming those 300 million euros that the Government of Sánchez owes Galicia and you, as always, to shut up and grant and practice that of "Chief, Chiton." That's the reality. Will you ever defend Galicia? It's a rhetorical question; of course, I know that the leader of Greek socialism doesn't like to be asked awkward questions. But the truth is that the model on the left is the same model here in Galicia as in Spain. His model is exactly the same as that of Pedro Sánchez: the model of the Socialist Party is that independentists and populists govern so that you can continue in government. That's your election offer. In politics we must always choose. And you've already chosen. [[Laughter]] They chose to represent this frivolous, tactical, partisan and interested policy. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u126	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u127	Mr. Caballero, absent spokesman, if you were ever president of the board — God would not like him — you would be a threat to the Greek public health. You would be a threat to Greek public health because, as you said, you would make easy decisions; electoral decisions against the opinion of technicians and professionals. Because you know more about pediatrics than pediatricians! That's the reality. Even if they told him to be born in Verín, it's not safe because there's no pediatricians, you'd keep the delivery there safe, right? What irresponsibility, insanity and electoralism! You don't hesitate to politicize Justice, the Prosecutor's Office, and put it to the service of your own party. [[Applause]] You're the Galician delegate of that party who spent from the hundred years of honesty to the 300 years of disability in Andalusia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u128	Finish up, please finish up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u129	I suppose they'll be proud of that. You, Mr. Caballero, who today has closed the defense of an alternative project to ours, did not appear in this House simply because you do not have an alternative project to ours. That's the reality. You don't have it, you don't have it from any of the groups and you don't even have it all together, because your projects are contradictory...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u130	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u131	Our project, ladies and gentlemen, is called Galicia; our project and our commitment: a Galicia that will grow by 2020 with expanding budgets, with the greatest social expenditure in Galicia's history and with the greatest spending on public health in Galicia's history. We felt proud. And we deeply regret that you will vote against this social Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u132	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Time's up. [[Mrs. Torregrosa Sanñudo asks for the floor.]] Mrs. Torregrosa, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u133	It seems to me that the accusations Mr. Tellado made in connection with the statement I made... appear to me of a clearly machist and discriminatory character. It is a lack of respect for a Member of this House! [[Protests.]] It's a lack of respect for a Member of this House, and without any proof, he can't make such accusations in this Chamber. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u134	Quiet, please. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Cal, Mr. Cal, be quiet, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Prado and Mr. Cal. Mrs. Prado and Mr. Cal! I'll call us both in order. I'll call us both in order. Quiet. I understood perfectly what Mrs. Torregrosa meant: Mr. Tellado may have used something metaphorical. Possibly. Yes, yes; I'm not able to say the speech, but if you did it here, it became clear — medium enough — that you had done it. [[Laughter]] I understood what he said as a critique without more, but I can't share that this is a masquerading behavior; because in this House there are no masquerading behaviors and I would have to call order. That would have done it. Nothing else. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Tellado, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u135	The criticism we made about who did the papers is a criticism that we also did to Mr. Villares, and therefore what I told him was that I read the papers that Mr. Lago wrote about and that Mr. Lago had already brought before Mr. Villares, who had not fallen into the same trap. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u136	Quiet, please. Mr. Torregrosa, it was clear that you made the speech. Point. It's over. Let's vote. We're going to vote, although this is used rhetorically and has no more business. I. Vote of expenditure statements
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u137	It's a rather complex vote. Quiet, please. I'll give you some attention, see if you can get us out. Mrs. Prado, please, I ask you to be quiet. If you want us to vote... all you're going to do is tell you this much more. I have no problem; we'll all go quietly. Calm down — if we have till midnight! – no problem. So, let's vote, if you like. The scheme is: first we're going to vote on the spending statements and then we're going to vote on the articulated. We started voting on expenditure statements, we proposed a joint vote on the amendments of each parliamentary group to the sections, except those separate votes that I will read. Then we started. Voting amendments to budgets of sections and instrumental public entities
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u138	Vote for amendments to the Joint Parliamentary Group. The amendments to the Joint Parliamentary Group are put to the vote. The Socialist Parliamentary Group calls for amendments Nos 110 to 133 to be voted separately. We voted for this group of amendments calling for the Socialist Parliamentary Group to be separated. Vote of Amendments 110 to 133 of the G.P. Joint budget of sections and instrumental public entities. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 39; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u139	We are now voting on amendments calling for the Joint Parliamentary Group itself separately, in particular — please note 32, 82, 83, 94, 99, 109, 84, 85, 86, 100 and 108 — which corresponds to the Galician Innovation Agency. Vote on Amendments Nos 32, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 94, 99, 100, 108 and 109 to G.P. Joint budget of sections and instrumental public entities. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u140	The same Joint Parliamentary Group also requests amendments 158, 162, 166 and 173 separately. Vote for Amendments 158, 162, 166 and 173 of the G.P. Joint budget of sections and instrumental public entities. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u141	And finally, Amendment 195. Vote for Amendment 195 to the G.P. Joint budget of sections and instrumental public entities. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u142	We are now voting on the rest of the amendments of the Joint Parliamentary Group. Joint vote on the G.P. amendments. Mixed with budgets of sections and instrumental public entities, except amendments to this group already voted on. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u143	We are now voting for amendments to the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Wales. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has asked separately to vote on Amendments Nos 80 to 121, 365 to 368, 179 to 181, 203 to 209, 212 to 217, 220 to 234, 236 and 313. Amendment Nos 80 to 121, 365 to 368, 179 to 181, 203 to 209, 212 to 217, 220 to 234, 236 and 313 G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block to budgets of sections and instrumental public entities. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 39; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u144	And now we are voting on the rest of the amendments of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Joint vote on the G.P. amendments. from the Galego Nationalist Block to the budgets of sections and instrumental public entities, except the amendments of this group that have already been voted on. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u145	We are now voting on amendments to the Left Joint Parliamentary Group. It asked the Socialist Parliamentary Group to vote separately on Amendments 18, 27, 167 to 208 and 244. Vote for Amendments 18, 27, 167 to 208 and to 244 G.P. the Joint Left Group on Budgets of Sections and instrumental public entities. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 39; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u146	We are now voting on the rest of the amendments of the Left Joint Parliamentary Group. Joint vote on the G.P. amendments. of the Left Joint Group to budgets of sections and instrumental public entities, except amendments to this group already voted on. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u147	We now vote on the set of amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Joint vote on the G.P. amendments. from Galician Socialists to budgets of sections and instrumental public entities. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Voting of budgets of all sections and of all instrumental public entities
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u148	We are voting now — also by joint vote — the budgets of all sections and of all instrumental public entities. There's a request from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group to separate a few sections. Can all these be voted together? [[Assentment.]] Then, in particular, it would be to separate section 1, which is Parliament; section 2, the Board of Auditors; section 3, the Galician Culture Council; and section 20, the Advisory Council. [[Murmurs.]] Let's see, it's a joint vote... [[Murmurs.]] I've already said that you should be careful and misunderstood. But we must repeat this vote. [[Murmurs.]] Please, man, please! [[Balbordo.]] There's no back in the sheet, man! He's not back in the sheet! [[Strong murmurers.]] Let's see! Come on! We'll vote again. We vote again because, among other things, it would not be approved by Parliament. [[Balbordo.]] Please! [[Laughter]] Let's be a little sensible about things. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Let's vote again. It's just that there was a mistake and maybe this was misunderstood. We are already in the joint vote on the budgets of all sections and all public entities. The Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego then asked separately what I said: Parliament, the Board of Auditors, the Galician Council of Culture and the Consultative Council. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Vote of the budgets of Section 01, of Section 02, of Section 03 and of Section 20 [[Parliament of Galicia]] [[Accounts Council]] [[Galga Culture Council]] [[Advisory Council of Galicia]] The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 14; abstentions, 20. The voting is positive. The budgets of these sections are therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u149	We voted for those of the instrumental public consulting and advisory bodies, which the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego also asked for separately. In this case it would be the Economic and Social Council and the Galego Labour Relations Council. Vote for the budgets of the Economic and Social Council and the Galego Labour Relations Council. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 14; abstentions, 20. The voting is positive. The budgets of these entities are therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u150	And we now jointly vote on the budgets of the rest of the sections and public entities. Joint vote on the budgets of all sections and instrumental public entities, except those of the sections and entities previously voted. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 34. The voting is positive. The budgets of all these sections and instrumental public entities are therefore approved. II. Voting of articulated text
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u151	We now proceed to the vote on the joint text of the dictatorship, and we proceed to the joint vote on the amendments made by each parliamentary group to the joint text. There are no separate requests for votes in this case. So, first of all, we are voting on amendments from the Joint Parliamentary Group. Joint vote on the G.P. amendments. Jointly with the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia by 2020. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u152	We are now voting for amendments to the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Wales. Joint vote on the G.P. amendments. of the Galician Nationalist Block to the articulated draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia by 2020. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u153	We voted for amendments from the Joint Left Group. Joint vote on the G.P. amendments. of the Joint Left Group to the articulated draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia by 2020. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u154	We are now voting on amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Joint vote on the G.P. amendments. of the Socialists of Galicia to the articulated draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia by 2020. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u155	And now — let us pay attention — we have voted on the joint text of the dictation with the amendments accepted if this is the case — which is not the case. Voting of the joint text of the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia by 2020. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 34. The voting is positive. Consequently, the articulated text of the dictation is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG142.u156	The budgets of the Autonomous Community for 2020 are therefore approved. [[Applause]] Now we should get the session up, but we can't get up because we have to continue — as you know —. But the specific full of budgets is over.
