ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. No inassistances have been justified. We're on the agenda. Provision of promise or oath to abide and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of a new Member's autonomy in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u2	As a preliminary point, we move on to the promise or oath to abide by and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of autonomy of Galicia by the new Mrs. Maria del Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta. In compliance with Article 7.1 of the Rules of Procedure, I shall apply for the promise or oath to comply with and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Galician Statute of the new Member. According to the procedure, the formula is to answer "yes, I promise" or "yes, I swear" to the question of this presidency. I'm asking you to answer the question I'm going to ask you. Mrs. Maria del Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta, do you promise or swear to abide by the Constitution and the Statute of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u3	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u4	Thank you. Once the promise or oath has been given, it acquires the full status of the honourable Member. Welcome to Parliament. [[Applause]] Debates and votes on the Opinion of the European Parliament, delivered by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Home Affairs, on the draft law on digital administration of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u5	The first item on the agenda is the debate and vote of the dictatorship, issued by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Home Affairs, on the Galician Digital Administration Bill. The amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, the Parliamentary Group of En Marea and the Socialist Parliamentary Group are maintained. The President of Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, Mr José Manuel Rey Varela, spoke for the presentation of the Commission's dictation. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. The motion designated by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Internal Affairs to issue a report on the Galician Digital Administration Bill at the meeting and the agreements set out below, in the light of the text of the draft and the amendments tabled to its articles, has drawn up this report for its discussion: "I. Background 1. The bill was entered into Parliament's Register on April 5, 2019. 2. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 8 April 2019, issued its publication in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia and the opening of the deadline for the submission of amendments. Even so, listening to the Speaker's Board, he agreed to attend by the First Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Home Affairs Commission. 3. Three amendments were presented to the whole that were qualified on May 15 and rejected at the plenary session on May 28, 2019. Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party, the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, 88; the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, 77; and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia, 59. They were qualified on June 4, 2019. II. Constitution, composition and meetings of the panel 1. Constitution and composition of the presentation. Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, at its meeting on 4 June 2019, appointed the following address: by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Ms Sandra Vázquez Domínguez —title — and Mr Jacobo Moreira Ferro — alternate —; by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Ms Carmen Santos Queiruga — title — and Mr Louis Villares Naveira — alternate —; by the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia, Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada — title — and Ms Patricia Vilán Lorenzo — alternate —; and by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales, Mr Xosé Luís Bará Torres — title — and Mrs Olía Rodil Fernández —surante. 2. Meeting of the panel The inaugural session was held on 10 June 2019 with the assistance of the chairman of Commission 1st and all the rapporteurs. At the following meetings, which took place on 13 and 18 June 2019, the amendments to which it was recommended were examined, and offers of transaction were submitted. On June 21, the report was finished with the position that follows. Pronunciation of the motion for a resolution on amendments to which it recommends its acceptance: The rapporteur from the People's Parliamentary Group recommends to the Commission the acceptance of amendments made by this parliamentary group numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13. The motion recommends acceptance of Amendments 4, 6, 7, 8, 11, 14, 23, 31, 38, 39 and 60 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and Amendments 33 and 35 of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Transitional amendments to which the motion recommends its acceptance to the Commission: the transaction drawn up with Amendment No 3 of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia, Amendment No 1 of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia and Article 1 in accordance with Article 4 (b) of the Rules of Procedure; Transaction No 54 — Amendment No 25, 27, 28, 43 and 63, Amendment No 62 and 82 of the Council of Wales, Amendment No 9 of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia to Article 4 (b) of the Rules of Procedure; Transaction prepared with Amendment No 30 of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia to Article 18(3) of the Rules of Procedure; Transaction prepared with Amendment No 90 of the Parliamentary Group of Marea to Article 75(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Rejected amendments: The rapporteur of the People's Parliamentary Group recommends discarding the remaining amendments." This is the report.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u7	Thank you, Mr. King Varela. We therefore begin with the turn of parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, defend the amendments maintained. [[Pause.]] Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u8	Good morning, gentlemen. As far as the bill is concerned, the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea has the right to take the following considerations into consideration. And I wanted to do it by remembering a physicist...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u9	Mr Villares, there is another Parliamentary Group of En Marea; in this case it would have to be the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u10	Well, as a spokesman for the political party In Marea, integrated into the Joint Parliamentary Group in the Galician Parliament, I wanted to begin my intervention with a quote from a physicist, Arthur Bloch, who, in a brilliant and sarcastic work on the legal world, said that a legal order in which there was a law that said that the ignorance of the law does not exempt him from his compliance, and that at the same time this was so wide that it would be impossible to know all the legal order, it would be a law, by definition, unfair. This is Galicia's digital map. This is the map of the broadband coverage that our country has, where except the dark blue -- the dark blue of En Marea -- and except the mustard color, the rest of the areas don't have adequate broadband coverage. [[Mr. Villares Naveira displays a map of the rostrum of speakers.]] It's more than a third of the population and two thirds of Galician territory. By making the simile of this comparison that Bloch made, a rule that forces the development and the digital relationship of citizenship to its administration and that at the same time does not provide for universal access to the Internet, so that it has enough connection to be able to access this service, it is a law that, by definition, is unfair to us. And that's why we're going to reject her. We think if you've missed an opportunity, an opportunity to expand citizens' rights in a modern democracy. It was already collected in the 1970s the right to access to information, the right to access to information, but subsequently numerous international treaties configured as a basic asset of the population the access of all the population, of all citizens, of the Internet, of access to broadband, of access to, ultimately, not to be taken off and taken off of the times; an access not to increase the digital divide currently existing in society. Well, the first claims of En Marea's political space were to guarantee that access by means of this law. It was a law of the digital administration. Then, the normal, consistent, would have been that a guarantee of access, first of all, to the Internet, to broadband, would have been established from there to establish a series of obligations relating to citizenship and the professionals themselves to the administration. Well, that's not done, and it's a missed opportunity for the extension of citizens' rights. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not the future, it is the present. And, therefore, in a law that has a vocation of permanence, we have already denounced, at the beginning of the processing of this rule, that assumed a freeze of rank, something which was unusual in this kind of standards for technological change. But once it bets that the norm has a character of stability proper to a rule of law, the normal thing would have been that no myopic forecasts of the present were made, but visions of the future, which is not such a far-reaching future: the need and configuration of universal basic access to the broadband Internet throughout Galicia. Well, this is not done and it is something that rejects our own Phoenicia in Article 3. In line with the above, we thought that we should not be able to demand that part of the citizenship that can believe that we have no access to the broadband of the Internet the relationship by digital means with the administration itself, and that was something that was subsequently rejected by this Phoenician. Similarly, within the essential contents of this standard, the right of access to the Network is rejected. We believe that there was a need to open up a political debate in this House on this situation. We're in the 21st century, gentlemen, not in the 19th century or the 20th century, we're in the century of new technologies, we're in the century of digital literacy, we're in the century where we're being told that one of the tools to combat the depopulation of the territory is the implementation of business in rural space, in the spaces of the middle towns. You're telling us that there are no longer distances because new media allow another kind of relationship. That's the ideological foundation, in addition to this norm itself. Well, let's be consistent with that rule and give citizenship rights. And the first right had to have been, indeed, endowed with the right of access to the Network. What does that mean? That the Council of Galicia, which the Government of Wales would indeed have to provide the whole territory with technological means to overcome this map that I have just referred to. This map is superimposed, and it can be surpassed because, among other things, there is a Greek public company called Retegal, which has within its functions precisely to guarantee communication and to guarantee telecommunications within our country. Why are the powers of the Galician Council not used and the competences of a Galician public undertaking not to guarantee this service? Why not use a legislative innovation to do an extension of rights? We don't understand it, we don't understand why. We made a critique in the initial configuration of the bill, which was the excessive privatization to which, in certain areas, the performance of the rule itself was subject. Well, not even in relation to areas of action within the private market has overcome this digital divide. It is possible to overcome the lack of broadband by also proposing, for example, to agree with private operators the extension to the whole territory, so that the role of Retegal was unique and exclusively oversight. But he didn't want to do it like that. That's why it's going to be something the majority group will have to answer. Secondly, and also within the citizen's rights framework, there is no provision for an equal right of equal access of an equitable character. Firstly, it is not fully incorporated into the field of inclusion, it is not fully integrated into the field of non-discrimination, nor is it a full democratic language. We are not talking about functional diversity, we are not talking about a number of collectives who in this way are not questioned either by the norm within the protection and protection against situations of lack of equity or lack of equal access to the Galician Digital Administration. It seems to us that it is a truly serious loss of opportunity for the social cohesion of our country. In addition, there is an inexplicable exclusion of data protection standards marked by the European Union. We live in the 21st century, in the 21st century and in the time of information technologies and in a moment of special zeal in the protection of personal data. Well, it systematically denies the application — systemic also within the appropriate areas — of Regulation 679/2016, something that for us is absolutely inexplicable. As you know, the regulation of direct application exists in certain areas, where a species within the kind of application of the regulation, and this is a technique used by law to refer to other rules by reference. So we don't understand why I try not to refer this particular case to data protection. There will be an explanation why, in the case of a digital administration law, the sensitivity and security problems that exist today in relation to data protection in the telematics field, in the electronic field, this due data protection is not done. On the other hand, in line with this, the proper authorisations for data processing beyond the very purpose of the law for the incorporation of data into the files of the Administration itself are not collected, and this is particularly serious too. The incorporation of citizen data for use for purposes other than those nearing poles is something which, as a general rule, the Organic Data Protection Act imposes on the Administration or on individuals; however, it is not allowed here to be incorporated. Nor is it collected the value of revocation of consent in the processing of precisely those personal data. Well, a missed opportunity for extension of rights, but also a missed opportunity to help overcome inequalities, both territorial and social. For example, there is a lack of guarantee of institutional support for rural access. This is how we try in Article 5.2, in which, finally, the Phoenician decided not to provide access points or citizen care offices. This is a debate that has already been opened in relation to the overcoming of the digital divide, particularly in relation to civil records and peace-making judges and the role they played especially in rural space and in relation to older people. They actually did perform a function not only administratively, but a real social function to help undertake proceedings that many older people are not able to do for themselves. Well, there was a general opportunity to do this without a substantial increase in means, because it was possible to make use of existing resources by the administrations and to make all administrations — not only autonomics, but also the local administration — agents to help bring this law out later and, more importantly, to what this law provides if it has come true. And yet it did not do so. In terms of digital administration and overcoming social exclusion, we also want to regret that the Phoenician Government did not take advantage of ensuring access outside of digital space to those who believe it is not within the system, which we tried in Article 6 and which, however, was not authorized. Not only are these means not provided, but human resources are not provided to address this situation. With regard to linguistic guarantees, Article 12 collects a number of prescriptions, and finally, the Presidency rejects a proposal by En Marea concerning the increase in linguistic guarantees which exempts the Law itself from linguistic normalization. Once more surely we will be told from the Phoenicia that it is a technique of referral to another norm and which is therefore unnecessary; which leaves without explaining why the referral is made in relation to other rules and not to this rule. By the way, the proposed precept was as dangerous as promoting the use of the Greek language in digital relations, consistent with the other two paragraphs of Article 12. Well, in addition to not extending citizens' rights, besides not helping those who are in a situation of weakness or territorial or social inequality, the advantages of the use of digital space by the Administration as provided for in this law are not taken advantage of. I refer — for example in Article 16 — to the obscurantism that is promoted in the face of transparency that could be promoted. Look, it is not allowed by the Phoenician Party to finally produce statistical information relevant to citizenship; that is, the use of big data for the benefit of the citizenship set. Why? Because when someone's on a waiting list it might be interesting to know what the total waiting list is or what the wait list for a residence or what the grant volume or the number of persons benefited. All of this would protect personal data and let us know how an administration is working regularly. Well, why, if big data and big data processing are done by incorporating data from users themselves, then they can't be used for their own benefit? Why not take advantage of them to increase the transparency of the administration? So we could know that administrative spaces are more saturated, that they need more personnel, that they need an update of their working media, etc. Well, all this is wasted on this norm. But it's just that, besides, it doesn't happen, unlike what you might think popularly, a cost-loss. We wanted digitization to lead to digital certificates being free, since once the whole database was done and the whole mechanism was digitized, they didn't have an additional cost for the Administration. Well, in his pursuit of the raiser and, once again, establishing a gap of social character, of an economic nature, the non-freeness of the certificates issued is established. There is another situation that is also absolutely incomprehensible, and that is part of our daily lives. I mean, when we perform any telematics operation, we all want to justify the operation. Well, in the 62nd brochure, you can check how Ponencia refused to generate PDF automatically and warrant receipts for operations performed. And this is normal. Whenever you check for any purchase, you give us a ticket that also serves as a guarantee that the operation has been performed and what its characteristics are, which you use on simplified billing occasions. And in relation to the simplified bill, I'm also going to go to the following issue: payments through digital receipts and their realization. In folio 91 they can contemplate how this payment justification is not guaranteed in the same way as I was explaining, and, in addition, what can be done in the twenty-four hours of the day and any of the days of the year. It's something that's inexplicable. One of the advantages of digital administration is that you can work outside the office schedule. Well, if you mind checking it out, you'll see how the Phoenician has rejected this situation as well. Look, one of the advantages we always preach about digital administration is administrative simplification. For what? Well, to speed up the procedures and, therefore, to finish them first. It's something that's logical, because, to the extent that we don't have to transport paper, resolution times should be smaller. Well, that's exactly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u11	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u12	...which is not guaranteed by this rule. In folio 120, you can see that, when it is said, "the bureaucratic axillization in processing will be sought," it is not also said, "and the resolution." Look!, we're not talking about changing the Administrative Procedure Act, we're talking about there's not so much justification in the delay of the proceedings, because the transfer of documentation is momentary, without moving the tray role in the administrations. Finally, to finish this first intervention, I will refer to two questions. The law does not think of two collectives who have a particularly intense relationship with digital administration. Firstly, the economic sectors. In the leaflet 122 you can check how an amendment was rejected that sought to incorporate pemmes and autonomouss with a special mention in the digital procedures, so they had a specific setting according to their own needs. If we want to push the small and medium-sized company in Galicia, if we want to push the position of the autonomous in relation to the digital position, we have to bet on them as well in the norm. And finally, in the formation of the office. In folio 177 it is recognized that sometimes it may be essential to train officials, but the administrative obligation to form them is not established, which is always a contradiction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u13	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u14	For this reason, our position in relation to the ditam is negative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u15	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u16	Good morning. The BNG, when the debate of this law began, had good reason not to support it. And now, since the last month, we have even more, and we have a very powerful one, which you've met last June 10 through this new one: "Joint and Microsoft collaborate to freely facilitate the Office 365 platform to all the Greek public centers." This announcement is not random, it is not the fruit of the altruistic spirit, well known, of this great benefactor of humanity that was set up in Galicia, which is Bill Gates. This news is the second part of a plan, a plan that was announced in May with the adjudication, by Amtega, of a macrocontract of supply and technological updating of software, server, back office and desktop, worth 13.5 million euros. This amount is not of course a small amount. The object of this contract was the acquisition of 72,000 software product licenses owned by Microsoft. And do you know who was the adjudicator of this €13.7 million macro-contract? Well, evidently Microsoft, who had that software. So what confirms this is that it's a preconceived plan, a roadmap, which is one of the main reasons for disagreement with this law by BNG. Because it's a public administration privatization plan, and it's a big-scale plan, as we'll see later. And it also confirms the strong commitment of the Galician Union — also in this law, especially in this law, because it rejected all the amendments tabled by the opposition groups in this regard — by private software, by the business of a multinational such as Microsoft against free software and the interests of the Galician business fabric. It seems to us, moreover, very serious that public education is used to favor the business and interests of a multinational in the United States, which is also more expensive because Microsoft wants to cash twice, first selling licences to the board and now through the student and the teacher of the public centers. Because in the end there are 280,000 pupils and students as potential clients and also 360 teachers from 27 FP centers who will also be training through the training that Microsoft professionals will give them. In addition, this poses a risk for the use of extraordinarily sensitive data and information, because this platform is going to be in the cloud and therefore requires both the teacher and the student to register. Personal data to be able to use it will be on Microsoft servers; therefore, not under the German control, not even the Spanish State. What guarantee do we have of the privacy and confidentiality of this data? In case it was little, this agreement is very harmful to the interests of the Galician business fabric, and free software, which publicly, through a manifesto, denounces that this service, this contract, generates higher cost, generates technology dependence and generates this data privacy problem. The second reason we disagree with this law has to do with what is a law that remains in the middle of the road, a law that remains short, because ultimately it is limited to adapting the legal framework to the state law and to all of that matter of decrees and orders that have been published in the last ten years, but it goes no further than that. For BNG they forget a question that is absolutely fundamental, and that should be shielded in a law like this, which is to guarantee access to digital and Internet for all population as a basic and fundamental right, as it is already recognized in the legislation of other countries. This law was the opportunity to do it and it was not done. And it's not done because this is not a social law, this is not a democratic, democratizing law. This is a technocratic law, it's a privatization law, it's an unequal and unbalanced standard that devotes 97% of the articulate to the development of digital administration and very little -- only 3 articles in Title VI -- to the digital impulse in society. Instead of boosting digital inclusion, this law consolidates the digital divide that generates economic, geographic, generational and knowledge inequalities. In addition, it does not guarantee good territorial coverage through that network which provides for citizenship and registration offices, provided for in Article 32. And in this sense, we have to make it clear that the majority group rejected the BNG proposal for a territorial extension and sufficient coverage throughout the territory by this network, which could also be done with collaboration and in cooperation with other administrations. This law also does not ensure that Galicia ceases to occupy the queue truck in the state and in Europe in digital matters. Look, Galicia, according to the Ministry of Economics and Business, is the second community with less population coverage with connection to more than 100 Mgps, we are only ahead of Extremes. We're the second in the queue. According to data from the INE 2018, we are the penultimate community in number of homes with broadband connection, we are the second in the queue, only behind is Castile and León. And we also went out very badly in the December 2018 INE report on equipment for the use of information and communication technologies in homes. Look, in Galicia, as for people who have used the Internet in the last three months — according to this report — this is the last of the state, we are the last of the state. As for usual Internet users at least once a week, it turns out that we're also the second in line throughout the state. This defuses all of Mr. Fexóo's propaganda, which falls by its own weight, which in January 2015 promised us that rural Galicia would overcome the digital divide and that by 2020 we will have a broadband internet here. Well, no, the reality is that we're in 2019 and we're at these posts, at the state queue. The reality is that this law leaves an important part of the population behind it is an exclusive law, a discriminatory law and a segregationist law. For example, Article 9 also lays down obligations for the use of electronic means for certain groups without guarantees of compliance. Besides, leave the country as a whole behind with this data that we put here in evidence. And let's come, let's say, to the Gordian knot, to the real red line that keeps us further away from this law. Because this law confirms and consolidates the tendency to privatize the Galician administration, with Amtega as a sort of true Trojan horse of large multinational companies, which are embedded in the administration. Not many companies, few companies, they capture, they cut, most of the contracts for hundreds of millions of euros, and they also have hundreds of people working directly in the Greek Public Administration, in an administration that is being privatized by forced marches. They also manage genuinely strategic services, such as justice, public health, education, social services and the central administration of Galician Union. You're building a big privatization ring in which companies participate that leave us many doubts and suspicions. For example, one of the most gracious companies besides Microsoft, as we've seen before, is called Indra. You're Indra, aren't you? Well, look, Indra is investigated in several plots of corruption, plots linked to the People's Party, for example the Punic plot or the Lezo case. I read to them news from the press over the past few months: "Indra has problems justifying payments of 1 million euros that went to the People's Party's Box B." This is one of the largest companies benefiting from these more than 500 contracts awarded by Amtega and other civil service units over the past five years — especially three companies, which are Indra, Atos and Eberes. Interestingly there are three companies that were sanctioned by the National Markets Commission and Competition last August of 2018 nothing more and nothing less than by creating a cartel, a business plot, which distributed customers, agreed prices and trade conditions and exchanged sensitive information to enhance public procurement. And then you come here and say here that all this is doing is saving costs for the administration. No, what the National Committee on Markets and Competition says is that this increases public procurement. Look, I'm going to give you some data: about the electronic judicial administration, the ICT services of the Justice Administration are managed by Indra for 3 million euros with a 2018 contract; in Sergas we have the IANUS system, Hospital 2050 and Innova Health with Indra — 2012 contracts for 1.5 million euros, in 2013 for 1.4 million euros, in 2016 for 1 million euros, the electronic clinical history of Indra affected by 3.7 million euros; the single social history has been evaluated to Indra for 2.2 million euros; the tourism information platform for Indra for 1.2 million euros; the electronic headquarters of Junta de Galicia, assisted by Indra, which controls half the Galician administration, together with Everis, which also manages the public procurement platform, certain aspects of the Abalar project, the node of transit interoperability, the digital administration archive, the new fiscal office, the development of the primary project, the Galician digital Agenda 2020, and so on and so on. We could stay here and we'd still have a lot left to talk about all these contracts. Well, what we see with all this plot, with all this business entrenchment, is that it's companies that create a sort of technological dependency, a parasitic relationship with the administration. Because, once they come in as adjudicators, they're eternal and systematically re-adjudicators of contracts. They have been contract adjudicators since the years 2010 and 2011 for the same services. Because logically they develop technology, technology platforms, and they have a competitive advantage that makes them an adjudicator of these contracts. This is a real digital world, because, as we have repeatedly denounced, these companies are subject to "digital" adjudications, fingering, with direct adjudication contracts. It was either at least until the new contract law came into force, or through the fragmentation of contracts so that the quantities would allow for direct adjudication. So it's a parallel administration that's under suspicion. And it's also a missed opportunity for this law because we defend -- and so we put it in writing in numerous amendments that were rejected -- that it was a law for the whole of the Greek administration, not to create typhoons kingdoms...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u17	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u18	...no administrations at different rhythms. I have two minutes left, as I see here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u19	I said "go," I didn't say "love." He knows we've changed some of the mechanics.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u20	We also miss it on its day, and we reiterate it here, because it seems to us an important issue, that this law, with its social and economic transcendence — because it has a lot of economic and, above all, social transcendence — if it was a real social law, seems very striking and critical that it does not go through the report procedure of the Economic and Social Council. And we don't argue that a person from the Economic and Social Council came here to attend the presentation procedure, because it doesn't make sense that a person should come. I had to have the report of all the people who corresponded to the Economic and Social Council. And it didn't work out. In short, we don't support this law because it's a rule that legally binds the digital administration's macro-negotiation, because it's a privatising law that puts the Galician administration in the hands of private companies and unreliable companies, because it generates a million-dollar business for multinationals and the crates for the Galician business fabric. It is a law that does not guarantee the access of the entire population to the information and knowledge society as a basic and universal right, as is being done in the most advanced countries of Europe. This was the occasion to do it and they didn't. And finally, because it consolidates and aggravates the digital divide, the social and territorial division of the country between first-class citizens who have access to the competitive networks and second-class citizens who do not have it, and because it places Galicia in the state and Europe queued van in terms of digitization. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u21	Thank you, Mr Bará. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, we have already tabled the amendment to the whole with a request for the return of this bill on the basis of various considerations which, after the completion of the procedure and the presentation, we have maintained. And it will condition the meaning of our vote, which will clearly be against. There is a new digital technological situation in which we must engage to be in the vanguard, but it has not been — in our opinion — a magnificent opportunity to make a good, consensual, progress law, without leaving anyone behind, and which has served to correct the inequalities that concern Galicia in the sub-alternity not only politics but also technology and with regard to telecommunications and the new forms of digitization of society, but including all sectors of our country and all social sectors. And we see it's a new excuse for continuing to implement a privatization model and, after all, precarious not only for the people who will work on this model but for the whole of citizenship, of the Greeks and of the Greeks. In fact, we therefore consider that it is no coincidence that the report of the Economic and Social Committee, when its evaluation is a key issue, could have a decisive impact on how this law and its application were proposed. The development of digital administration is undoubtedly one of the major challenges of adapting public administrations to the technological change of the present and the future. This is not a process for now, quite a long time ago, quite a few years ago, that has been implementing itself in the state as a whole. And we consider it absolutely necessary to regulate this matter. However, we do not share the final result, the way and the way these kinds of issues will be applied in this law — which will finally come forward thanks to the absolute majority of the People's Party — we cannot share it. We have tabled a lot of amendments, apart from the refund amendment. And the People's Party is true that in the presentation it has dealt with us and with all groups certain issues. But that's what confirms us at the end is the feeling that it was a simple process to give the picture that everyone was accepted with a desire for consensus and collaboration that was not real but a washing of face, out, at a time when the knee of the majority and the climate of constant confrontation was penalized throughout citizenship. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we have ideas, a program and a model that in almost everything hits frontally with yours. That's inevitable. I would say that it would even be healthy in terms of democratic health in a system that was not totally distorted and damaged by the political praxis of recent years. And I'm not just referring to clientelism and corruption, what we've already talked about in the case of Indra, linked to the Lezo case and Punica in corruption of the Madrid PP, which is ultimately a model of political plage that floods all the governments of the People's Party. And yet it doesn't seem to go with your group, they want to give a picture that these are opposition inventions, when we have headlines and we constantly see judicial proceedings. They don't want to give an image of imposition, of passing the knee, but it's really the truth. And the truth is that we all defend here the political and management models in which we really believe, and that we work and vote in this Parliament as a result of each one's models. We appreciate the joint work, but we will not contribute to washing your image, when in the fundamentals, in the basis and spirit of this law, of your real model, of what you don't want to talk to citizens and citizens, we don't agree, we're totally against. Better said, we are in total opposition to a privatization that will benefit at the end the old ones, the old ones, that then, when the years go by, we will know what it ends, as we are currently seeing with the managements of previous years. And this is not done for a party interest but because we believe in a certain way that this will harm the whole of the Greeks and the Greeks, and above all to certain groups and sectors much more than others. It's going to worsen the level of attention and the relationship with the administrations that will have to fulfill many Greeks and Greeks in their duties. And yet certain companies will benefit. It doesn't matter what Indra is, whether it's Microsoft or x, it doesn't matter. But the problem is, we're used to having this always happen in this country in everything about public services, their outsourcings and their entire management model, and we should say it clearly. And the People's Party should also say it clearly and proudly defend it, because they are so convinced that this is their model. We are convinced that we must innovate, that we must move forward, that we must not exclude, in case it is necessary, everything that can improve services. But it can't be an excuse to use our money to implement other things that aren't the things for which the Greeks and the Greeks pay taxes. And especially when it comes to as many millions, as in the case of Amtega, as we've seen from the beginning of the legislation through the contracts of Amtega. And when we get into this, we also mean that we're not even convinced that we're proposing this law is the best or the best way to regulate the necessary digitization of the Welsh Administration and the set of our autonomic system. And, in fact, we know that the State basic laws incorporate different legal regulatory measures, both the procedure and the internal functioning of administrations. And this will bring great administrative and even legal-competence problems, because regulation of electronic processing, cybersecurity and data protection matters is currently largely absorbed by state and Community basic standards, so self-adjustment rules should maintain greater flexibility than this law will have. The bill, in addition, we consider that essentially it doesn't bring anything new, there's no budgetary increase, which also draws us very much attention. Because we don't know how this new regulation will be implemented effectively, correctly and effectively. They're pretty good at us. And besides, there are no changes needed to respond to the transformations that the Digital Administration will undergo, as on the one hand in demand for public employment, both at the qualitative and quantitative levels. Because we're not talking about training, we're not talking about costs. In the end this will be the new excuse to continue outsourcing and privatizing, because they will have the perfect excuse to tell the Greeks and the Greeks that the public doesn't work and that they have to come to private companies, with which you then have more or less public or private dealings. And it's the perfect excuse for the Greeks and the Greeks to bring in a more expensive and ineffective service. And for these reasons, we believe that the criticism we make to the Government and the People's Group for their constant failure to comply with their own legislative plan is what has driven them, among other things, to bring this bill, which is no longer more than a piece of the empty legislation, of facial washing and marketing for the People's Party, which has us used to. And it's also a business opportunity to use public contracts as they've been using them for so many years; not to mention that the People's Party is bored in the Government and doesn't bring anything new and has no illusion for doing anything really ambitious or different. It is also very important that we consider this bill to be more geared towards diminishing and hindering the services that the Greek administration has to provide on an equal footing to citizenship, which ultimately is what it is about, the service that is going to be given to the Greeks and the Greeks. And the Greeks and the Greeks already have a lot of difficulties to this day with so much unnecessary and complex bureaucracy — which, on the other hand, we also suffer from employees and public employees in the processing process — and the difficulties in accessing e-government. Because it's complex, because you're already imposing far-sighted pre-steps, such as using digital certificate, which necessarily means connecting to the Internet, and it's equal to the personal, work situation or citizens' abilities by age or whatever. They carry more people who have difficulties, and I say, especially our elders, who don't or don't want to learn how to deal with the administration electronically. They do not implement or guarantee or have a budget forecast so that these people are not effectively excluded and have no difficulty in accessing the Administration in this way. So let's go back to it: why do you do this if we know it's going to bring problems if you don't have enough budget and regulation? Because if you favor the usual ones, you favor the private sector, which is what really benefits this kind of law. We are afraid that, due to a misimplementation of legislation and administrative management, this kind of law would fall again into another form of social exclusion — as if we had not had enough — which is digital exclusion. It is essential for us to guarantee the possibility of access to new technologies and in conditions of equality, so that the entire population of Greece has guaranteed universal access to knowledge, networks and tools that avoid the digital exclusion that is already suffering today much of citizenship. We all have in our homes and in our families people who are already suffering this kind of exclusion in their daily lives, and it is not an exclusion caused solely for economic reasons, although there is a large part of these reasons. The obligation, which is collected in different sections of the law, and the duty of using the digital services that imposes this form of communication with the Administration, although it is not specified how these services will be facilitated to citizenship, we repeat that in the end it is the fundamental one. The method of how it will influence work and care is not explained if there is a service interruption, a network crash, a security breach, a momentary interruption that can leave a request to the media and the process for their resumption, as well as the security cracks and the data theft that can be used to commit a cyberattack or theft of them. And they give me a lot of trouble every day. I have seen myself since 2007 in various departments and ministries implementing certain applications and certain digitized procedures. And they were complex procedures that made many times, when the system fell down, the working days were completely complex, in which no processing could be done, in which people sat in the chairs waiting for the system to resume, and with prior quote. Which is not smaller, and we don't see that they're predicting it. And in the end, it's citizens who pay bad attention. It also does not regulate, for example, that in municipalities with an aged population you can provide a service to care for these older people. In the end, it would be necessary and compulsory to hire professionals to carry out these support and counselling work when we see that many people are not in a position to relate electronically to the Administration. And also the obligation of self-employed people are very concerned about us, because, if they have usually hired professionals to perform the tasks they have in the exercise of their professional activity with the Administration, because this still makes it more difficult for them. And they're going to have to take external support to be able to carry out their activities. Nor is it established what criteria are for establishing the mandatory use of electronic communications with the Administration of other collectives who, because of their capacity, can communicate in this way. And besides, a lot of this information that citizenship itself is going to bring is already in the hands of the Administration, but it's not computerized. What should be computerized, because there are thousands of files that should also be reviewed as far as possible. But, of course, it's necessary to hire staff, and we know that Galician Union is not for work. There are no even interrelationship channels between administrations or relevant security conditions to correctly flow information between councils. It also does not regulate how access to people with functional diversity, cases and specific ways will be guaranteed, apart from expressing the desire to guarantee their access. In fact, it was a transaction that incorporated people with intellectual diversity to guarantee their access to digitization, but we don't know how it will be done. The project does not include mechanisms to ensure equality and the absence of barriers to access to information, and therefore we are faced with a project that cannot guarantee equal access to digital administration. Any amendment that may have had some sort of commitment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u23	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u24	...was strongly and automatically rejected, as all the speakers know we were at those meetings. There is talk of collectives at risk of social exclusion, but there are no mechanisms to prevent social exclusion or how. And let's not say that there are no social fares available today for people in exclusion or families with economic difficulties. The project does not include public mechanisms to prevent this situation. If there are already large housing shortages to pay bills, light, water, taxes, quality food — a minimum vital to sustain — we no longer touch the topic of digitization, which is a luxury for many Welsh people, as much as most or many of us here do our day-to-day with ultra-modern mobiles, with internet with good quality. But that's not the reality of the Greeks and the Greeks, most of them. It's still not reaching the wide band at all corners of our country — if you've talked about it too. We're on the tail of the state, as in so many matters, unfortunately, not only in this one. We're only getting the stremadura to be the ones who have the worst connection and the worst access to the wide band. Today it should be a right to access digital information and information networks. And it should be something everyday, not that it had harmed citizens and citizens to develop their rights and needs. And finally — and it's over — the current project envisages a process of deepening the privatization of the Government of Wales, which is the model of the People's Party, recognizing the need to exercise indirect management of various services related to digitization and digital administration. Our group bets on direct public management, we consider it to be the best, the most efficient, the most humane, the closest and the least expensive. And avoids, in addition, that there are inequalities and that all these guys end up...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u25	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u26	...of contracts in the hands of business groups and lobbying — e.g. Microsoft — of pressure groups that accumulate enormous power through the management of privileged information of Welsh citizenship.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u27	Thank you. Your time is up. He's got another shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u28	So, for these reasons, that then we will continue to expand, we will reject this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u29	Thank you. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u30	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. In the debate that we had of the amendments to the whole to analyze and to begin the parliamentary analysis of this bill, we had already commented on two or three main force ideas. On the one hand, first of all, we were observing how this bill was being very little ambitious, very little ambitious in legislative terms. Because it was only being limited — and it is still limited, with some changes in the presentation process — to recast the regulatory dispersal that currently exists in Galicia and to implement the basic state legislation. But above all, it's not ambitious in terms of developing Galicia's digital economy. And the other question that we were pointing out, and which we were particularly concerned about, was that precisely the text of this new bill to regulate Galician digital administration did not protect, it did not protect, sufficiently, the digital rights of citizenship. There were several scenarios of data that we presented in that whole debate. I, of the data contained in the Journal of Sessions, would basically have three. First of all, we need to be aware once again that the ICT sector is assuming in Galicia around 2.5 % of German GDP — in data from the ICT cluster —. There was another fact which also drew our attention — and which calls our attention and needs to be kept in the debate — because, according to data from the Commission on Electronic Administration, the State Administration, which works jointly on these issues with the autonomous administrations at almost sectoral conference level, Galicia occupies the tenth position in budget run by total inhabitants in ICT matters. And the third fact, of what has been talked about permanently in this House both in the debate of the whole and now in this debate of the presentation, and in precisely the work of the presentation, Galicia presents precisely more than worrying data for the effects of a territorial digital divide and, above all, of population coverage, as it is in the matter of broadband. Galicia, as it was said repeatedly, is occupying the penultimate position, above Extreme, over 100 or more megabytes. In the debate on the presentation, the Socialist Parliamentary Group presented a proposal for work to give audiences to a number of key economic, social and professional actors in Galicia to try to achieve a truly convincing bill for the development of the Galician Digital Administration. And the fundamental ejacism that we noted and which stands out today — that we will continue to have an impact on it — is that precisely in a way which I would say is incredible, it has not been requested, as we have pointed out, the precept of the Galician Economic and Social Council. We were told in the debate that some of the bodies or agents forming the ESC were consulted, which make up the Galician Social Council. But, well, because of that dynamic, we can rule out all the consultative bodies of the Government of Galicia, of the Autonomous Administration of Galicia or even of this House, and we can consult each other in an aidematic manner. That's why we're asking for a court hearing. We also asked for the presence of the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, the presence of the main research centres and computer science and engineering faculties of the Galician university system. We are asking for the presence or audience at the main professional schools, which have a lot to say in the matter — telecommunications, computer engineering or industrial engineering. Or we also ask for the participation, in the hearing process, of the main entities or federations that bring together the autonomouss of Galicia. And, as we do not, we ask you to also be able to provide your report or give your suggestions both the ICT cluster, that is, the business and technology sector of Galicia, as well as the association, obviously, of the companies that are working on free software from Galicia and the alliance that binds the technology centers of Galicia, Atiga. None of these hearings were admitted by the People's Party in proceedings. I think it's a shame that by running a bill — that, as I say, it's not ambitious and only what you're implementing is basic regulations, basically recasting the current autonomous dispersion -- this hearing procedure has not been exactly granted. But we insist that the most serious thing is that the report of the Galician Economic and Social Council had not been requested when — I insist — the ESC's own regulatory law indicates in its Article 5.2 — and I read literally again — that it is particularly up to the Council to produce reports or studies on the possible repercussions and adaptations necessary for the introduction of new technologies to be imposed on the Galician economic and social system. Well, it must be that this bill does not introduce any improvement, no modification, to Galicia's social and economic system by scanning the autonomic public sector. It is, of course, striking. And in this situation, a matter that also concerns us and we are particularly concerned about trying to prevent the digitalization processes — in this case of the autonomic public sector, but of any entity that makes up the Public Administration and of any entity that operates both in accordance with public law and in accordance with private law and that intervenes in the digital relations of citizenship — that these inevitable processes of robotics, do not deepen in the processes of dehumanization, as we have often said, in the provision of public services; especially in the provision of public services addressed to people. And in that sense, we always talk, we always talk, if you write and if you hear about trying to prevent us from walking to an Orwellian administration in 1984. I mean, what we have to try is that in this case Amtega, or any other body that has to develop these powers, they don't somehow become in that "great brother" described to us by George Orwell. And in that sense it is essential to try to present a complete catalogue of digital rights of citizenship that protect citizens precisely from the technological processes that lead forward, as I say, to relevant dehumanization processes. That's why there are a number of evasives in the matter of data protection delegated persons that we claimed in our amendments that were not incorporated into the text. And even if they're in the state's basic regulations, we can't understand how Galicia doesn't incorporate them into its own autonomous regulations. The Socialists' Parliamentary Group presented in quantitative terms in the presentation procedure, as described above, 77 amendments. They were accepted or traded from our group, 24. And in that sense, we could conclude that the outcome of the presentation could be quantitatively — I insist — positive. But, as we also had the opportunity to debate in Commission 1 of 28 June, in the debate on the presentation, in qualitative terms, we consider that the main aspects, the main amendments that our parliamentary group has tabled, have been out of the joint text which is now being presented for this debate. And we said — I said in my speech, in the Committee on the First and I reiterate it in this plenary meeting — that, if the People's Party, the People's Group, accepts the amendments that we noted in the debate on Commission 1a, we, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, could be in a position — because it supports the Galician Digital Administration and the Galician digital economy — to vote even in favour of this text. But we need to know if the People's Party, precisely, incorporates those amendments for us principals that were left out in the debate on the presentation, and to those I'm going to mention again, to find out if we're in that situation. If this change of position by the People's Party does not occur, the Socialist Parliamentary Group would refrain from voting on this bill. It is true that basically three points of our amendments were incorporated which we consider to be fundamental as a contribution to the amendments accepted or negotiated to this bill. First, strengthen the commitments of the Government of Greece to also seek to promote the inclusive digitisation of the Administration in the area of local entities in Galicia, with the necessary mechanisms for the promotion, coordination and allocation of resources. A second question that we considered to be fundamental — not just us but the different political groups that we are in this House — was to make an explicit reference to trying to work deeply on this text for the digital inclusion of people with intellectual and sensory disabilities. And a third aspect, which was one of the issues that we too insisted on, was also in some way regular business relations digitally with the autonomic public sector. But in the face of these three areas of work that have been incorporated, either literally or in a transactional manner, there are a whole range of issues which for the Socialist Parliamentary Group are key and fundamental, and which have been left out of the dictatorship of the Presidency that we are debating today. In that sense, we are focusing on the following issues. Some of them have already been commented on, but for us too is still a key aspect, one of the aspects that we would need to incorporate in order to clearly support this bill, and it is to bet clearly on the possibility of using open standards, i.e. free software. Because free software is a clear tool of technological ethics and technological democratization, apart from that it is a tool and a fundamental lever to support and to boost the technological or microtechnological fabric, which in Galicia is getting more boiant every day. A second aspect, which in some way also one of the voices of the political groups commented on earlier, is that we were asking that the process of digitisation should lead to a progressive process of reduction of rates and reduction of deadlines within basic regulations, since the digital relations of citizens with the autonomic public sector obviously has to try to reduce costs and reduce time. I insist, and I have previously insisted, that the other question for us is key to whether or not to support this bill would be, and it remains, to incorporate a full catalogue of digital rights of citizenship, as they certainly have not only the general administration of the state in the basic legislation, but other autonomous communities. Why does Galicia not provide its digital administration regulations with a complete, full catalogue of rights that protect citizens and ensure their electronic relations with the autonomic public sector and the whole autonomous administration? It seems to us another key issue — for us that is one of the four or five key issues that we present as an offer for the People's Party to change the meaning of our amendments' consideration —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u31	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u32	...that for the collective of self-employed, which establishes a direct electronic relationship obligation, a progressive programme and a support programme are established. There are other aspects in which I will focus on the second part, but I do not want to leave this intervention without highlighting two important points, which are to try not to try but to ensure the balanced presence of men and women in the collective bodies that are established in this bill and to ensure that the institution of the People's Valedor has powers as transparency commissioner for the defence of the digital rights of citizenship. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u33	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Mr. Villares, the first thing you have to clarify is what you amend, because the Joint Group, of what you are part of — or, if you prefer, the "high seas", as you wish — has introduced this Zero Amendment Galicia Digital Administration Bill, this amendment! He likes it or doesn't like it. Look, strictly speaking, at yours, which, before the debate on this draft committee, you already incorporated the amendments of a group of which you were not part of before the debate. So, seriously, zero. Mr Bará, you had your position clear before the debate of this bill. The truth is, they don't have any progress. And, Mrs. Santos, the People's Group has proposed compromise proposals on its amendments, and you have not accepted. So, of consensus, no idea; and of progress we don't even talk about. Ladies and gentlemen, the principle of good administration must preside over the actions of public administrations in relation to citizenship. We're in front of the final process of the Galician Digital Administration Bill. The administration must be in the vanguard of the use of technologies to act as a tractor in society and in the economy. It must be able to adapt rapidly to new demands and provide digital information and services at any time and anywhere, and in the most convenient way for the citizen and for public employees, in appropriate confidence and security conditions; and enable the communication channels through which you can participate in the definition and even in the design of public services, so that they better adapt to their real needs. For that, an integral transformation must be undertaken and turned into a digital administration. I'd like to start with a sentence that probably sums up the bill we're discussing: "Let's go, we have to create tomorrow and not worry about it yesterday." That's how Steve Jobs paraphrased. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we must build a more digital administration, a more efficient, more transparent and of greater quality; ultimately, ladies and gentlemen, we must make direct and close contact with the Greeks and the Greeks. For that, approval of this bill is necessary so that we can reach the Galician Digital Administration. Ladies and gentlemen, you are aware that we are before a bill that counts with the participation of the various departments of the Autonomic Administration and, most importantly, with the vote in favour of all the trade union organizations represented, as stated in the certificate issued by the secretary of the Committee on Staff of Galicia. Of course, what surprises me is that you are opposed, or, better said, to be profiled, which has been exactly the same. Because, look, your criticisms can be set in four questions. On the one hand, you express the lack of a preliminary report by the Galician Economic and Social Council, but you know that it's not really necessary. Look, first, this bill will be aimed at achieving a single, coherent and up-to-date regulation; second, during the processing procedure, the intervention of the various agents, as reflected in the memory; third, the draft law was approved unanimously by the trade union organizations. On the other hand, the Economic and Social Council consists of three distinct groups: trade union organisations, business organisations and cultural and university entities. They've all been tried by the audience, they like it or they don't like it. And look at a very clear example for them to understand: if each of you receives information in your email, it's obvious that you're already informed, without needing you to send it back to the group of which you are part. Because, Mr. Villoslada, in the writing you requested -- and here too I was commenting on it in your exhibition -- establishes a hearing process for various bodies and institutions, and does not even even appoint the Galaga Association of Electronic Commerce or the Galician Counsellor, which, from my point of view, are also collectives involved. Of course, in memory it appears well reflected, and if not, look at page 11, where you can see exactly that the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces appears. Just look at him. Let's be realistic. God's hearing process is for everyone and each of the collectives involved, but you continue to put a stop to this bill. As a second critic, Mrs Santos and Mr Villares, say that this law does not guarantee the necessary infrastructure so that citizens can access the digital administration. Of course, there has already been a specific law devoted to this, which was discussed in this Parliamentary House, the Law on the encouragement of Galician telecommunications infrastructures. And you know what you voted for? On the contrary. Do you know what the German Government did while you were hitting the red color to prevent better infrastructures in Galicia? They bet on improving the connectivity of our autonomous community. How? For it's very easy, by doubling the broadband budget with more than 8 million euros to continue the extension of networks of 100 Mb in more than 400 rural nuclei, improving the connectivity of isolated companies; with more than 14 million euros to advance the digitization of the Administration and with about 4 million euros to strengthen the security and availability of digital public services. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what the German Government does: projects and budgets. While others, no plan or budget, and they don't even require telephone companies that install the Internet in the countryside, which corresponds to the Government of the State. I've heard criticisms about free software. Mr Bará, look, the Galician Technology Modernization Agency continues to promote the use of free technology in shut-down projects for administration, strengthening its position, referring to the example of efficiency policies and the good use of free technologies, thanks to the implementation of free software solutions in its technological infrastructure, the achievement of savings and improved productivity. In connection with the agreement of Microsoft, Mr Bará, you should be better informed. Look, the aim of the agreement is to expand the range of office tools with which students work in the Welsh public centers, and facilitate the use and access of a platform that they may have to use in their future work. The agreement has zero cost for the Administration, and it allows to have the tools available to students and teachers of public centers who so request free of charge, always under the safety criteria that the provider of the platform has to guarantee. It was this government, ladies and gentlemen, the first to put in place a plan for the drive of free software — in 2010 — in collaboration with the main agents of the free software system. Mr Bará, you're always against the employees. Now, ladies, take Indra. If we talk at business level, 6 out of every 10 Galician microenterprises use free software, which has experienced an increase of 10.3% in the last year. In the case of ten or more employees, the percentage exceeds 87%, in front of autonomous communities such as Madrid, Catalonia or Basque Country, as you can see on this map. Mr. Bará, Galicia leads. [[Applause]] Mr. Villoslada, you criticize that there is no catalogue of rights. Look, you will agree with me that the laws must be simple, useful and effective. And the rights catalogue you mention is collected in other articles of the law. You're talking about the use of either of the two official languages. See Article 12, language uses; and in addition we incorporate an amendment of the Nationalist Block of Galicia within the general principles—Article 4—. Second, to know the processing status of the procedures. In Article 20, Mr. Villoslada, the purpose of the Citizen Folder appears. On the privacy of personal rights and personal and family privacy, see article 91, information security policy. The safety and quality in digital or electronic transmission, in Article 96, of the processing of personal data. It's just, if we're going to make a really redundant law, then we're going back to Stone Age. I don't know what they think. I think we must be aware and achieve a bill as simple as possible for their understanding by all citizens. Not by putting more articles saying the same thing improves a law. In the course of the recruitment process they question their procedures. Mr Bará, you, if you have anything to say about legality, I beg you to address the judges and there to resolve it. A relevant fact that you always omit -- it's constant criticism -- is that the employment of the German ICT sector has reached 23,300 workers, 6.1% more than in the previous year. I only ask them to recapcitate, to think and analyze the position of this ambitious project, a bill that spins into five outstanding areas and that has been enriched by the realistic contributions of all the groups that made up Phoenicia. "New basic principles." Mr. Villares, you were in doubt as to how to guarantee the use of the English language, or whether there is a principle of equality and non-discrimination. I beg you to read again the basic principles of this law, because they are consensual and they collect the feeling of this law. "Mechanisms in the Face of Technical Incidences." Mrs. Santos, a decree of what I have already informed you and that I will leave it here to Mr. President so that he is informed of when the German Government is prepared to deal with possible technical incidents and to be able to extend the deadlines if necessary with a decree that would solve this problem. Here I leave it to the president so he can read it later. "Corporate Web Policy Guides" -- which also improved this legislative text -- and, as it does not, the implementation of the enabled official, who here has so much doubt." Ladies and gentlemen, the bet on this figure, this person enabled, will allow an authorized person to do telematics on behalf of another person. "The purpose of the fully privatized citizen folder." It's just that we'd almost get in doubt here, and we'd come -- I don't know -- to collapse part of the Folder or to enter into something that doesn't fit into the Citizen Folder. It's totally protected, and for that it's protected within a data protection law. I'm just asking them for a little consistency. This Galician Digital Administration Bill focuses on four basic objectives: equipping Galician Union with a stable legal framework, legally establishing the guiding principles of public administrations, offering greater efficiency, efficiency and simplification of procedures and achieving a comprehensive and coherent regulatory context. It is a bill with three basic principles: to present the documentation once, ladies and gentlemen, with personalized services suitable for the needs of people and a good management of the necessary resources. The German Government will continue to stand by the Galicians and the Greeks, he likes or doesn't like the opposition. And, in addition, for them to understand it, a clear example: the birth of a child is one of the most wonderful experiences a human being can live. The arrival of a member of the family means administrative and bureaucratic procedures that take away the boy's enjoyment. So the bill we're discussing wants to make it possible for the Administration, whenever the user authorizes it, to do the processing of the Welcome Card automatically. If that's not a bet and it's not ambition on the part of a bill, tell me, gentlemen. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, this law comes to the parliamentary House preceded by consensus, and I have already appointed it, with a consensus on the part of all trade union representatives, with agreements with Mr Villoslada...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u35	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u36	...by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, and by others, such as Mr Bará or even Mrs Santos, with primary and essential agreements on matters relevant to the groups of this House, ladies and gentlemen, enriching this draft law on security and training, on equality and non-discrimination, and, as otherwise, on transparency, with the hand held always towards the groups that preceded me in the use of the word so that Galicia is a pioneer in the issue of digital administration and always looking for the best for the Greeks and the Greeks. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u37	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez. Round of parliamentary groups to define themselves on amendments. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u38	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, don't get angry. You and I have been debating here in this House in the whole debate when the bill was taken into consideration; therefore, I hope you will recognize me at least that dialogue and the fact that it was also one of the signatories of the amendments I referred to earlier. So that's about the minimum. If you prefer not to talk and go to the seat, you have nothing but to say, even if I have someone else to protect the House. And you talk, and with Steve Jobs' quote, of building the future, that you have to let it pass and build the future. This is the map with which you want to build the future. Let's talk about this map, because this map is important. This map is very important because it's the map of territorial cohesion, it's the map of equality; or rather it's the map of the territorial divide, and it's the map of inequalities, of digital inequalities, of inequalities in access to the digital media of our country, of inequality in access to the exercise and the fulfilment of the duties imposed on this new standard. So that map is important. The opposition is not profiled, the opposition is there pointing out what are the problems the citizen will have in order to meet the norm. The opposition is there pointing out what are the problems people have in accessing digital space. You say there's already been a law on driving telecommunications infrastructures in Galicia. Well, that's the result of the rule. This is the map of your failure. This is the map of the failure of digitization: two-thirds of the territory and one-third of the population without access to the broadband. Of course, this is the situation. So, the only thing we're getting into is a real situation. Anyone who is listening to this debate and who lives not only in high mountain spaces too far away but often in peri-urban spaces or in rural spaces, which are the ones that make up a majority of what is Greek organized space, are in this situation. I mean, you don't need to go to Manzaneda, you don't need to go to Piornedo, to find this situation. This situation is located 30 kilometers around Santiago. So we're here realizing a reality. And the paper can with everything. You can put and write black on white whatever you want, but there's a technological reality that doesn't support the obligations that you impose on this new standard. So we're doing what we're doing here is pointing to these shortcomings. And it seems to us that this is a missed opportunity. The guarantee of broadband access is not something that has developed the Infrastructure Push Act — as you say — because that law does not recognize subjective rights. I borrow it, if you like, which we discuss about that law, and that law doesn't recognize subjective rights to citizenship in access to broadband. It doesn't grant them, it's not a law that extends rights. And this law sets new obligations for citizenship but does not extend rights either. A right allows the citizen and the citizen to address the Administration and say, "You recognize me this right and I'm not being given the technology to comply with." Neither that Law of impulse nor this Law of digital administration recognize that right. That's right. And I'm willing to come back here and correct it, but it's just that there isn't because we've already found out there wasn't. That's why we said it was a missed opportunity to extend new rights, that's what a law has to do, to extend citizenship rights and not restrict them. When new obligations are set here for citizens and citizens, and at the same time they are not equipped with mechanisms to be able to fulfil those duties in a non-disproportionate way, so that they are not excessively expensive, what is being done is to widen a gap; which is a territorial rift; it is a social divide, an economic rift, an old rift, a gender rift. And you're not responding to this situation and that's what we're telling you. Look, would normal people like to have a digital relationship with the Administration? Of course I can, but not everyone can. What we're saying is that if you set the means for this law to be fulfilled, we're talking about it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u39	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u40	And we're also talking about this: that, in relation to consumer relations, consumer protection regulations lay down a number of obligations for private companies when contracts are produced that assure consumers and consumers a number of rights — justifiers, capacity to pay, etc. — are guaranteed. Well, that doesn't even come into law as an obligation for the administration. So we'd like it all to be taken into account. We think this is a missed opportunity to expand rights, to reduce inequalities. It's a missed opportunity to expand our country's digitization. The role will only not carry out that situation. It's a missed opportunity too to cohesion from different points of view, especially the territorial one. And then it's a missed opportunity too to boost small and medium-sized businesses and we're autonomous in a better relationship with the public administration at the digital level. We therefore ask them to consider these amendments and, if not, our position will obviously be to vote against the project and to add ourselves to the amendments of the rest of the opposition groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u41	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u42	Mrs Vázquez came here with the autopilot, with the pinion made — as usual — there is no change in movement in the People's Party. So, no matter what we said here, she'd already come with her argumentary and she didn't get into the debate of what we put here. Look, you're the conservative party, but I'm also the immobilist party, you don't come here to talk to us about the future. We want the future for this country is the future for Estonia. Yes, in Estonia you can register the birth of a child by means of digital administration. And you come here to talk about the Welcome Card. We want to be like Estonia, we want the future that Estonia has!, where, by the way, the Internet is a fundamental fundamental right of all the population, a fundamental human right. [[Applause]] That is the future we want for this country. [[Murmurs.]] So maybe they have to travel a little more for you, because then they'd learn that there's really a much more advanced world than this one that's here for us. [[Applause]] Yes, Russia, yes. [[Applause]] Russia might as well. [[Murmurs.]] You don't just understand a basic question of democratic functioning and public participation. You are striving to close Parliament's doors to society. It's true, from foot to foot, from tail to tail. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, because the process of hearing and public participation has to be given throughout the process of processing a law. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And now too, the presentation procedure is a procedure in which there may be audiences and public participation, and you give it systematically because you refuse to open the doors of Parliament so that people come here to give their opinion, talk about the laws and criticize their laws. [[Murmurs.]] A closed parliament to people is the parliament you create. [[Applause]] Parliament's Rules of Procedure provide for the possibility of hearing proceedings. Do you know how many times you used it? Sky! They systematically denied the possibility of the hearing process. What's the fear of collectives and entities coming here talking about laws? What do you want to hide? And, of course, don't tell me here too that the free software sector is applauding with its ears that agreement they just made with Microsoft, which doesn't cost anything either. You know it doesn't cost zero. Because, as the German free software sector said in its June 26 manifesto -- I don't know if you read it -- this agreement and the previous €13.5 million contract in open source licenses are clearly linked from the planning point of view. They are two phases of the same plan, a strategic agreement with Microsoft to convert nearly 300,000 students from the Greek institutes into potential customers of this multinational. Or do you think Bill Gates comes here to give us his private software? The biggest criticism made it the free software sector. So, Mrs Vázquez, we have two completely anti-thetical and opposite models: you have the technocratic and privatising model and the BNG has a democratic, socializing and public model that wants to end these inequalities. Because the Internet and access to the knowledge society must be a fundamental right of all the population, a right to guarantee access to competitive networks, also access to knowledge that allows us to have an active, critical citizenship, which can be developed through the use of technology. And you with this law, instead of shielding and boosting the free software or the public character of the Administration, what they shield by law is privatization. And it's a privatization, in addition, monopoly of large companies that are co-operating fundamental and strategic areas of the public administration...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u43	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u44	...who have access to services and data that are also private. And, of course, I'm not surprised, in that sense, that you come here to defend Indra. Of course, it's totally coherent and consistent. If you help Indra more than 70 million euros, if Indra doesn't give any justification for how it paid the People's Party for "B" 1 million euros, the logic is that you come here to defend Indra, of course. We didn't expect anything else. They defend that monopoly. So there are several red lines that keep us away from this law, because it doesn't give us that impulse, that digital leap into the future we want, because it's not betting on free software, because it's not a law for the whole administration, and because it's a privatization and monopolistic law. And so we're not going to support her. If we are going to support the amendments of the other groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u45	Thank you, Mr Bará. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Vázquez, we weren't looking for consensus with your group or your bill. It's just that I think we've made it clear enough. I'm not a suspect of being a militant of the People's Party, God set me free! But we're already in the fallacy to try to seek consensus when it's you who need those consensuss to avoid giving the image of the knee. But one thing is that we can reach timely agreements on very specific issues that are of common sense and another thing is that we are going to support their management models and their laws. I think it's a question you can't even argue about. If you want, I'll explain again. But the truth is that we are against these privatizing models and the precariousness of the services to citizenship, which will have a cost not only for the arks of the Greeks and the Greeks but a cost for their attention, especially of the people who will have greater difficulties at the expense of this digitization and of this modernity. And of course it must be done, but it must be done by providing that this situation does not deprive them of their rights, but guarantees them rights, extends their rights and improves their attention. That's why you're the ones who want here to impose a consensus that's impossible. It's the same as the law you mentioned, for us "the law of depredation," which we have already said clearly. It's just, how would we support a law that we thought harmed the whole of the Greeks and the Greeks, how is this case? It's just that we have a model that is opposite to yours. And I'm not just talking about the subject that then these models derive from the practice of political corruption -- and we have the hemerotheca to see it -- but also that, although there was no such thing, we are also against it because we consider that business is done at the expense of the rights and money of the Greeks and the Greeks. And then he makes me here the recommendation that I look at, I don't know what a deadline extension document is. That's what we've been talking about in the presentation, and I haven't mentioned the issue of extending deadlines with regard to implementation barriers. I think I explained, and that, if there's a fall from the system on a working day -- as I've seen and suffered -- people stay in the door, stay in queues and stay in the chairs when they had to ask for days off, they had to make prior appointments, they had to make a series of changes to be able to attend an appointment in the administration. And they hang them up and we hang them up without being able to handle them. And there's no forecast, you know there's no forecast for such situations. I mean, I think you should get a little better informed or listen a little better and don't come with the argumentary prepared, because I didn't mean that. And the success of the Galician Union and the modernity of the Galician Union in the question of the deployment of the wide Internet access band is to be alone in front of the Extreme in the state as a whole? Is this really the success of your laws and your bets on telecommunications, infrastructure and broadband? Because here, in the intervention of our group, there was a lot of emphasis on digital exclusion in our seniors, in the autonomy, in how it will be implemented, if there are problems, mechanisms to avoid harming them, in how it will be ensured in the rural municipalities and in the municipalities of other characteristics to those groups that have problems with access to digital administration so that they can be properly cared for and that they are not excluded from their everyday activities, as is already happening today. And he didn't say anything. He said we're the vanguard and we're pioneers here. Yes, pioneers in precarious circumstances, behind Extreme. In other words, only Extreme wins us in that and in so many things. But it's just that you don't understand, you don't understand, you don't understand that we're talking about digital exclusion, that we're talking about the problem that there's no universal access and the right of access to the Internet, so you can implement this, these laws and these actions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u47	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u48	Because if you don't understand that energy poverty -- because it's more important that electrics continue to abuse without making the policy changes or appropriate public policies, that that's money for the country even if people later have the energy poverty problems they have, and it's not just a question of the poor, of the excluded, it's middle-class families -- and if they don't understand that of renters, that of the empty funds, then how will they understand that and our fears that Microsoft appears using information from the Greeks and the Greeks, that they continue to fall into the traps of the lobbyists, that they continue to use the resources of all and the contracts of the Greeks and the Greeks paid by everyone for the interests of these companies, and what will be done with their data? You don't care, just like you don't care about rent and energy poverty. Of course, this is going to worry you less. But we do, we do care. And we worry about the consequences of all this and let these monopolies in.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u49	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u50	...in the Greek administration, and more in the character of foreign multinationals. So we are going to vote against the law without prejudice that the transactions of the amendments — for those issues that were raised from the other groups, just as we are — will support them. But, as you will understand, we cannot support this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u52	Thank you again, President. Mrs. Vázquez, I think you realize that there is a mistake, a grave asset in the processing of this bill: they did not ask for the preliminary ruling of the Galician Economic and Social Council. Or it's a mistake or something more serious than that, which is a torturing use of Galician statutory organs. I say this because, as I recall, the ESC's regulatory law is clearly clear on this issue. [[Applause]] But, just as we are seeing the current state of hibernation of the people's Valedor institution and the use on some occasions of the Galician Consultative Council, we can only conclude that it is not a mistake, but that it is precisely that it dictates itself — in a non-binding way, because the dictates of the Galician Economic and Social Council are not binding, that it dictates and that it brings the vision of the social and economic part, which has something to say about the progress in this legislative, economic and social case in Galicia. They report union organizations are fine, but they have reported in a consultation process on the management of autonomic personnel. I mean, that doesn't mean that the union organizations representing this country spoke about the bill in terms of socio-economic advancement for the digitization of Galicia's autonomic public sector. So, in that sense, we thought it might be a mistake, but we can conclude that this is the use — I said — of torture, of that use, I think it is not democratic of our statutory bodies in Galicia. And it's true, as Mr. Villares said, that a text can include rights, it can broadly regulate a catalogue of rights, it can establish a series of guarantees. But it is also true that if the administration is not established — in this autonomous case — the instruments and mechanisms that make these rights effective, of course, citizens and citizens of Galicia cannot exercise them. And in that sense, I would also like to remind you of some data. Because we speak before the digital divide in Galicia -- I insist, not territorial, but population coverage, which is very different, because it's often spoken in these forums of Galicia's orographical problem, but we're talking about population coverage, not territory coverage -- and Galicia, by many standards, laws or digital strategies that go ahead, is not doing its homework. Other autonomous communities, as we had the opportunity to point out in the whole debate, have made much greater efforts. Andalucía — which was at low rates —, from 2017 to 2018 made an effort of 7 points; Canary Islands, of 10 points; Castile-A Mancha, of 14 points; Extremadura, of 7 — which was on the queue—; and Galicia, of 1.5 points. It is data that we highlighted in the whole debate and that they are there to believe that the effort to overcome that digital divide — I insist, of population coverage — is not being enough at all. Mrs. Vázquez and ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, when we talk about including rights, among others, such as participation by electronic means in administrative activity through hearings and public information, privacy rights, rights to computer security or rights, among others, to use free and free of charge autonomous electronic means and services, I don't think we're talking about redundancy when establishing precisely digital security for citizens and citizens of Galicia. There were two or three questions also that I wanted to keep in mind and that we were worried about this text.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u53	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u54	First of all, in many paragraphs, reference is made — it ended, President — to the digital accreditation system, which has no bearing on the system of professional qualifications or the education system. No amendments — which have seemed important to us — were included which prevent advertising in the promotion of electronic services, or — yet again — a number of guarantees that should establish the independence of the data protection delegates. In any case, and to conclude, Mrs Vázquez, there were four or five amendments that we considered appropriate. Finally, I hope you will agree to incorporate them into this bill so that you can count on support from the Galician Digital Administration in this articulated text. On the contrary, the Socialist Parliamentary Group is absolutely obliged to abstain because we are in a purely technocratic law, it is not ambitious at all and does not protect enough the digital rights of the Greeks and the Greeks. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u55	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Villares, article 3, end of the law: "Ensuring the interoperability of the service." You keep reading, because in five minutes I don't have time. Mr. Bará and Mrs. Santos, you say I didn't get into the debate, or I bring the argumentary prepared. Sure, you know what's going on? That they didn't like what I told them because it's the real truth, that's what happened. Mrs. Santos, the decree, as I see it has not been made clear, I will read it, and then I will pass it to the President: "Project of decree so as to regulate the extension of the deadlines for submission of requests, writtens and communications at the electronic headquarters of the Council of Galicia in the case of certain technical implications that prevent its ordinary functioning". Lea, sir... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Villoslada, there is the Socialist Party to teach lessons about institutions. Yes, sir...! We've spent more than three months with a government in office, without the Permanent Deputy, without organs that control the Government. Then, yes, the lessons leave them. I really give them advice: leave them to other parties who need to be supported by their government. Leave him for that moment! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] The Galician Digital Administration Bill entered this Parliament with an amendment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u57	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u58	No, you don't like it, ladies, of course. But listen, listen, they'll like it better. [[Murmurs.]] I came in with an amendment to the whole of the three opposition groups that we still don't understand today. We believe that, through partial amendments, we would understand and understand why the opposition does not want to move forward, why the opposition does not want to progress, and even, ultimately, why it does not want to go into the hands of technology. Now we have represented in this parliamentary chamber the four left-wings who pretend to be the alternative to the Government of the People's Party of Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greeks and the Greeks already live as if they were in the morning and as if they were opposed in the afternoon to a bipartite. What we don't understand is how a quadripartite will be possible. Of course, we can't see it easily; and by consensus, much less. And I say de-governance because, analyzing the amendments of the groups... You don't like it, Mrs. Noela, you don't like it, of course. [[Strong murmurers.]] I say ungovernance because, by analyzing the amendments of the groups, they present them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u59	Calm down! Quiet, the campaign hasn't started yet, eh! Let's take it easy! [[Protests.]] There's still a lot left for the campaign. Let's go easy! It's okay, it's okay. [[Strong murmurers.]] Come on, come on! Mrs. Vázquez, continue, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u60	I say ungovernance because, by analyzing the amendments they present, it's curious. Because, look, on the one hand, the Nationalist Block Galego is making great progress by changing the "autonomic public sector" to the "Galish public sector." But what is really curious and amazing is that it is literally deleted, in Article 9(3), which establishes the use of electronic means for granting grants. I mean, Mr Bará, instead of moving forward with the world, we go back to the Stone Age, using the cart to raise the documents to the administrations, and so we continue to waste, as usual when you rule. The tides — which I no longer know is the high tide or the low tide — go further. They intend to eliminate the collaboration of private entities — Article 36 —. Mr. Villares, Mrs. Santos and Mr. Bará, do you know what would lead to the deletion of this paragraph? Well, look, the agreement that maintains Amtega with the Federation of Jewish Associations of Galicia and does not offer the service of sign-language video interpretation for people with hearing impairment. I think they should analyze their amendments. Mrs. Santos, your amendment to the whole indicated that no rule of law should be established. And you go...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u61	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u62	And you go into your partial amendments and regulate to the format of a PDF file. And, as if it weren't much, the information office schedule. Ladies and gentlemen, why don't you recognize that we are facing an ambitious, assuming bill and, more importantly, useful for the Greeks and for the Greeks. This bill aims to achieve a single framework of principles. [[Applause]] Once again, the proactivity, like not, that is to get a more efficient management. The priority is to consolidate a fully digital administration and universalize the use and access of citizens to digital public services. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the administration is close to the Greeks and the Greeks. I'm done, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, soon you will have the opportunity to press the green button, to be next to the Greeks and the Greeks; on the contrary, you will continue to set stones and prevent the progress of the Greek citizenship. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u63	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez. Voting of the legislative text
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u64	We shall vote on this legislative text. Close the doors, please. In particular, we shall vote on the amendments to the Ditame issued by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior on the draft law on digital administration of Galicia. We started by voting on amendments from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting of the amendments made by the G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego (Doc. # 52064) not incorporated into the Ditame issued by Commission 1a, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, on the draft law on digital administration of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u65	We are now voting on amendments to the Parlia­mentary Group on the Environment. We vote. Voting of the amendments made by the G.P. of En Marea (Doc. # 52069) not incorporated into the Ditame issued by Commission 1a, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, on the draft law on digital administration of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u66	Finally, we voted for the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting of the amendments made by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia (Doc. # 52070) not incorporated into Ditame, issued by Commission 1a, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, on the draft law of digital administration of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u67	Finally, we voted on the committee's opinion. We vote. Ditame's vote, issued by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Home Affairs, on the Galician Digital Administration Bill. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 14; abstentions, 19. The voting is positive. It is therefore approved or issued.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u68	Consequently, it is approved the Galician Digital Administration Act. They've finished voting, open the doors, please. We're still on the agenda. In this case, point 2 of appearances. The opinion of Mrs. Counsellor of the Sea, on his own request, to take into account the impact of the participatory local development strategies of the GALP in the fishing areas of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u69	To make this appearance, Mrs. Rosa Quintana has the floor of the Sea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u70	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. I share today in this plenary session to report on the work done in Galicia in relation to participatory local development strategies in the coastal areas of Galicia and to evaluate its impact and scope. I must begin by stressing the importance that for our territory is the so-called participatory local development strategies, which came with the implementation of the European Fisheries Fund in 2007 and which have increased with the implementation of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, with the priority in both cases to increase employment and social cohesion in fishing communities. Among its main objectives are the appeal of young people and girls to these areas, the promotion of innovation in fishery products, as well as support for diversification within and outside the fisheries sector, but also the momentum of the environmental and cultural heritage of these areas and the strengthening of the role of fishing communities in local development and co-governance of fisheries resources and local maritime activities. In addition, these strategies address challenges of the future, so important to the Galician coast, which include aspects related to the common fisheries policy, blue growth and climate change. In short, in our view, these strategies are key to contributing to the diversification and complementarity of coastal economies, with the maritime-fishing sector as an axis, and, as the focus of that common point, the activities of artisanal coastal fishing and seafood. Before I go through the evolution of the implementation of these strategies, I think we should focus on the start of this course by pointing to its origin, which is pointed out in Council Regulation 1198/2006 of 27 July 2006 on the European Fisheries Fund. In this rule, recitals 32 and 33 point to the need to establish measures to accompany the common fisheries policy which may reduce its socio-economic impact by applying local development strategies for a sustainable development of fisheries areas. Assume, and given the diversity of situations and regions, the European Union itself points out that the territorial strategy must be appropriate and adapted to the local context, be decentralized as possible, promote the participation of local agents, be based on upward planning, allow small-scale operations and ensure broad private sector participation. This declaration of intent takes shape in Chapter IV of the Regulation, between Articles 43 and 45, and provides for them as priority 4 axis on the sustainable development of fisheries areas. With the arrival of this government to the Galician Union in 2009, we constituted the coastal action groups with the aim of acting as collaborators of the Welsh Fisheries Administration and giving practical shape to this development of the EFF axis 4. We did so as was reflected in the regulation, and during that period we constituted a total of seven groups, in which three hundred and thirty public and private entities were integrated representing the socio-economic interests of each area. The most important lesson learned from the EFF axis 4 was the importance of the involvement of maritime-fishing professionals in local action groups, as each group was able to organize and define its territorial strategy and shape it in its respective plans. In total, in the period covering the years 2010 to 2014, time when the EFF has been operational, Galicia has approved a total of 400 projects for a total aid amounting to 23.2 million euros, and the number of jobs generated is estimated at more than 200. The welcome of this fund has been translated into a very important financial execution, which has reached seventy-five percent execution during the EFF period, reaching around ninety percent in some coastal areas. The good experience and lessons learned in this period led Galicia to redouble its bet on this and objective, issues that we could carry out when this bet was also extended in the new regulation of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. This new regulatory text, as defined in Regulation 508/2014 of the Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, collects this proposal in a corrected and increased manner in recitals 55 to 59, stipulating that the participatory plans applied to local development were positive. In addition, it is stressed that part of the success of these strategies lies in that they fully take into account the multisectoral needs of endogenous development, so support in this area must continue to advance and intensify in the future. And that is what we did, in accordance with Chapter III of the Regulation, which contains Articles 55 to 64, and taking into account the priority of increasing employment and social cohesion in fishing communities, which has led to the launching of participatory local development strategies. Again, local associations, now known as local groups of action in the fisheries sector, are prominent, composed of members of the public and private sector in each area and with the objective of meeting the needs of each area. Compared to the previous fund, there were a number of improvements: the number of groups increased, from seven to eight; the four cities in which the fishing sector was significant were included in the fisheries area; and finally their budget increased. In this respect, an important effort has been made, since the funds intended for this purpose are around 50 million total public investment, which doubles the provisions of the previous financing period. In short, there are currently more than 300 and one social entity represented through the eight GALPs, of which one hundred and five are fisheries organisations, representing more than 11,000 fishermen in the sector. It is now necessary to make the first balance of this FEMP period. Since 2016, the first order has been published until the end of 2018, three hundred projects have already been approved, of a total of six hundred forty-nine presented, amounting to nineteen million euros. Importantly, out of the total projects approved by the Council of the Sea, they went ahead of eighty-four percent, and it must be noted that they managed to mobilize a total of forty-three million euros of investment, of which forty percent are of public aid. This data confirms the programme's ability to promote private investment in coastal fishing communities, which is recorded in EUR 20 million. But even more, we believe that the economic momentum and dynamism that this tool offers in non-urban coastal areas are one of the main positive points that we can derive from this experience. But that general data that I bring here, and that emerges from an analysis of the evolution of the LAGs, must be bubbled to understand better what the keys that this line of action touches, in the spirit of improving the present and future socio-economic situation on our coast. Without a doubt, the most beneficial objective of the FEMP is support for diversification, which receives EUR 9.8 million, just twice as much as the next objective of the FEMP with more aid, which is the increase in added value, which has so far received EUR 4.8 million. Together, both targets combine eighty-seven percent of the total aid. As for the projects that address the new challenges of the GALP, governance models are being supported in resource management, diversification strategies for marine tourism and promotion of the quality of catches, certification and marketing. In relation to blue growth, activities linked to marine tourism and sustainable coastal represent the main type of projects to be financed, reaching the nine million euros of public aid. Other activities linked to traditional infrastructures and biotechnology or the fight against climate change mitigation are also being helped. Finally, as far as job creation is concerned, these first years are two hundred and sixty-seven direct full-time jobs in three years. In addition, we must bear in mind that this figure has to be put in relation to the generation of jobs in non-urban coastal areas and their population, rather than meaning that these jobs are complemented by many that are supported and created in the extractive sector and in the sea-industrial chain in their future. I mean, it's not only the goal of creating jobs, but also the pre-existing and related ones that sustain and push their improvement, and all that within a coastal sphere of lower population and prone to the loss of inhabitants. Now I'm swirling the data from these funds into the fishing field itself. The truth is that the fisheries sector has promoted a total of one hundred and seven projects, i.e., forty-two percent of the total projects in the 2016-2018 analyzed period. By steps, the extractive sector leads twenty-three percent of all funded projects; the marketer, thirteen percent, and that of the transformation agglutinates six percent. It often stops us in monetary terms, the aid allocated to the fisheries sector has reached thirty-three percent of the total, about 11.6 million euros of total public and private investment. It is important to highlight the good figures of some groups, such as the Gulf of the South Arctic, where eighty-five percent of investments linked to the fisheries sector are reached, and the number of projects focused on the commercialization of marine products in the Groups of Walls-Noia and the Marine-Ortegagal. The report also collects that, in the course of transformation, they highlight the Gulf of the South Plateau and the Pontevedra River, while the groups of the Arousa River and the Coast of Death have more investment in projects in the productive sector. It should also be noted that the fisheries sector is very involved in diversification, promoting projects mainly related to marine and industrial tourism, training of sea professionals and promoting marine culture. As for the typology of the promoters of the fishing sector who present projects, the most frequent profile is their own confrries, as well as fish marketing companies or processing fishery products. Finally, the global socio-economic impact of the aid program estimates its impact on the whole of the Greek economy by one hundred and eight full-time jobs and an increase in gross added value of almost fifty-seven million euros. This results in an impact of 0.09 percent of the total German gross domestic product in 2017. This figure is so important because, in order to put in place the projects, they require labour, raw materials, equipment, advertising, consultants, training, computer services, restoration, etc. But in addition to knowing how we apply the funds, we need to know — and now explain — how much we apply. The direct application of GALP's participatory local development strategies has a total budget of 52.6 million euros. On October 31, 2018, the degree of financial execution of the FEMP priority 4 aid program is 40 percent. Of course, we're also considering rule N+3 by half of the program, so this number is still relative. In any case, we continue to work to increase this percentage of execution and to increase the amount of public funds. In this sense, even today, an Order has been issued that expands the Order's credit on December 21, 2018, and this means that more projects can be attended this year, considering, because then, it is appropriate to expand the amount of the initial credit for so-called non-productive projects. We have incorporated more than 1.2 million euros right now to increase this support, and I am sure that we have achieved more efficient use of public funds through a higher degree of budgetary execution. With regard to the execution by GALP, they stand out, with an amount equal to or greater than 40 per cent of execution, the GALP Costa Sostile Seo de Fisterra - Laria de Muros-Noia, the A Marine-Ortegal Group, the Pontevedra River and the Arousa River GALP. At the opposite end there is the GALP of the Gulf of the North Plateau, the GALP of the River Vigo-A Guard and the GALP of the Coast of Death, which are around twenty-six percent execution, but I am convinced that they will grow in their numbers in the present summons. As for the execution based on FEMMP's objectives, it highlights the high degree of execution of diversification targets and the increase in value, with fifty-eight percent and twenty-nine percent respectively, predominant in most groups. Depending on its typology, productive projects benefit from seventy-four percent of the total aid program, compared to twenty-six percent of non-productive projects. Production projects, mainly, have to do with diversification targets and added value increase, which together account for ninety-five percent of the aid granted in this type of projects. In the meantime, non-productive projects also support environmental heritage, cultural heritage and governance objectives, mainly. In most groups, the aid granted to productive projects is greater than in the Gulf of Northero, where the distribution of aid is balanced between productive and non-productive. The Council of the Sea has come to realize, therefore, a commitment decided to strengthen the local groups of action in the fisheries sector as a key tool for the sustainable development of fishing areas in Galicia. In order to provide systematic and up-to-date information to keep this bet on track, we urge Cetmar to develop a strategic follow-up programme for participatory local development within the framework of the FEMMP. The program is structured into three major blocks and is characterized by its continuity in time and its participatory character: follow-up, to determine to what extent the main challenges are being addressed in terms of common fisheries policy, blue growth, climate change, job creation and social integration; evaluation, to measure the economic and social impact of the developed projects, their contribution to local development strategies and the contribution to the objectives of the FEMP; and learning, to identify good practices and attributes of excellence, generate ideas of improvement and develop training activities for groups that guarantee their integration into the process. The work carried out during 2018 focused on review and updating tasks of the program analysis framework, evaluation of projects, results and periodic reporting, with fieldwork based on interviews. Among the positive conclusions of this memory entrusted to Cetmar, two of the three projects are productive, that is, sixty-five percent; the capacity of the program of participatory local development strategies to promote private investment is corroborated; most projects respond to the specific challenges of local communities' economic and social development; and if much of the FEMP objectives have been addressed, there are areas of action that remain inactive, such as aquaculture or renewable energies. There are also positive trends in job creation that we should even improve, knowing that the results in this area are always better than those mentioned. However, we need to note the dynamization of the business fabric in coastal communities by giving itself the generation of one hundred and twenty-one business in this period analyzed. With regard to the perspective of gender and generational relief, it must be pointed out that forty-two percent were presented by women and/or new people, reflecting once again the success of priority 4 of the European aid program. Another success that also becomes apparent is that priority 4 is being able to involve the fisheries sector. Ladies and gentlemen, I finish and do it by summarizing this course of action over these ten years. Since 2009, we have been able to set up coastal action groups and integrate into them thirty public and private entities. They were able to start a walk that left four hundred and twenty-seven approved projects and a global investment aid of more than twenty-five million euros. The result of that good experience we wanted to strengthen this bet, and for the period 2016-2020 we redoubled support, increasing by fifty percent the total budget and reaching around fifty-eight million euros in aid. This renewed bet is already bearing fruit, and it is one of three hundred projects approved at this stage of the local fishing action groups, with a total of 19 million euros of public aid, more than 200 sixty-seven jobs generated full-time and one hundred and twenty-one business created. I know that this strategy will continue to bear new fruit and that many of them, which we have had so far, will even be recognised and highlighted by the European Union itself, making even Farnet itself, the network that integrates all the GALPs of the European Union, highlight us repeatedly. But I come back to the important point of this appearance: the important is not the figures, but the primary role that the maritime-fishing sector itself has adopted and adopted in this line of work. In this participatory strategy we re-edit and expand, ladies and gentlemen, co-governance with the sector. We have challenges for the future in this area of action, especially with a view to stimulating the presentation of projects by fisheries professionals, and we know that this is going to coincide with the necessary simplification and speeding up of the implementation of the new fund, which will have to enter into force in 2021. I know you can count on your support on this new walk. They know that this support is neither to this government nor even to the local fishing action groups, but to support the maritime-fishing sector itself and its professionals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u71	Thank you very much, Counselor. On behalf of the parliamentary groups, we begin with Mr Casal Vidal, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u72	Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, Counselor. I ask for a little kindness to be as a spokesperson for fishing and Marisqueo of the Political Group of En Marea within the Mixed Group, and I apologize for possible inaccuracies in which it may incur; one day I will learn. Today, basically, I'm going to ask questions just to see if we know a little bit more deeply about all this about the GALP. Because the truth is, after a couple of days of investigating a little, I have to tell you, Counselor, that it smells; it smells a certain kind of chiringuits for the discretionary and caciquil distribution of some of its money to friends and close friends. That's the impression you get by analyzing the approved projects, analyzing who belongs to these GALP and what the partners are. Besides, we're not talking about four bitches: the budget for the 2019 to 2021 exercises is almost twenty-three million euros, and the aids can reach — as you have commented —... well, I saw two possibilities: a handful up to 50 percent in the case of productive projects, and elsewhere I found that sixty percent, and 100 percent in the non-productive projects. As we all know, eighty-five percent of these funds come from the European Union, and that is why it would be very important to give you an advantage that we believe should be otherwise. How are these GALPs — what do you mean fishing local action groups — constituted? Well, mostly, for partners who little or nothing are related to the fishing sector; a curious thing. In most of them, associations or collectives representing the fisheries sector do not exceed twenty percent of the partners, in some of them they pass a little above, in others they are below. I did a review like this, a little bit, and we found such curious partners, in an entity that theoretically aims to promote the fishing sector directly or indirectly, such as an association of music friends, a association of widows, many neighbors' associations — some of representativeness more than dubious, because I looked for them on the Internet and they don't appear on the web, associations of housewives, etc. They're all very respectable in their field of action, but they don't seem to have much relationship and knowledge of the fisheries sector; in principle, they don't seem to. Again, this gives a smell to chiringuit, because these associations belong to the decision-making bodies of the GALP, and in view of their lack of knowledge of the sector, they can easily be manipulated by managers and presidents. Which, by the way, Madam Counsellor, and I start with the questions: who names the presidents of the GALP? Do you have any responsibility to these appointments? For example, people who have been retired for many years in relation to the fisheries sectors, but who are still there, year after year, sharing money in their area. Who chooses the board of directors? The reality is that this leads to the fact that most of the tips don't go into actions directly or indirectly related to fishing. It's very good to finance hospitality projects, but it doesn't seem as timely as it is from these funds. And it doesn't seem that the confrereries — at least as I read in the documents I have found — are very pleased with their operation and the distribution of the large funds available to the GALPs. Who evaluates projects? For the head of the GALP, the president and his technical teams, who, for the allegations I have made before the People's Valedora, do not appear to be selected with much equanimity and criteria of independence, transparency, competence and appropriate training. By reviewing the projects, that's right, the names are very humbling and very related to fishing, most of them, but often their only relationship with the fishing sector is to be located on a sea trip or to be called "Way of...", "Way of...", or "Sense of..."; at least in the name if they are related to the fishing sector. I stopped to check some and there was one that caused me a lot of surprise: it was subsidised with twenty thousand euros the arrangement of a terrace in a village — yes, sailor — on a sea trip and which has in the name of the bar the word "nautical"; that is, of course, three weight reasons to have a direct relationship with the fishing sector. Well, you got twenty thousand euros for that, to fix the terrace — which, in fact, by the pictures was pretty nice — and the commitment to create jobs was 0.125 full-time equivalent jobs, that is, almost twelve percent of what one worker would expect a year. The truth is that this does not seem to be a lot of promotion of the fisheries sector or a lot of job creation. On this line, I want to ask you other questions: doesn't it seem to you that the ratio of more than 100 thousand euros of job support created is not very satisfactory? What percentage of the subsidized projects is directly related to fishing activity? Have you ever answered a moment ago that around thirty percent, but directly productively, really directly productively? Counsellor, do the presidents and members of the GALP board of directors have remuneration? Who names them? Do you have anything to do with your appointment? Who names the board of directors? Do you know the total annual expenditure on offset of travel expenses and cost aids for members of the GALP Boards? Finally, we would like to know — because we are asking for Article 9 — whether the audits of each project are available and whether these audits are solely aimed at reviewing the bills that justify expenditure — which seems to be at least obvious — or are genuine audits which, in addition, confirm that the objectives of the subsidised project and its socio-economic impact and for employment in the fisheries sector have been met. It's five or six very simple questions — sure — to answer for you. From then on, we'll become more familiar with this subject, and hopefully we can change our mind with its information and the information that it sends us. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Casal. I, using the kindness I asked of you at first, would ask you, in order to avoid confusion, to speak on this initiative as a spokesman for the Joint Parliamentary Group. No, I know you didn't, but that's what it is. [[Mr. Casal Vidal pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I believe that this kind of thing, of course, does not come close to deliberations, so we ask them to adapt as closely as possible to the new situation. [[Mr. Casal Vidal: From the Political Group of En Marea within the Joint Group.]] Let's keep going. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG has the floor to Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u74	Good morning. Good morning, Counselor. In fact, the coastal action groups began to shuffle back in 2009, and there was expectation in the sector, because they saw that it could be an opportunity to put in place collective projects, to try to alleviate deficits in the sector and to try out which pending and never resolved issues could be carried out, as projects to unify sales, create sales and seed farmers, recover unproductive areas, modernize the fleet... But you, instead of using these projects to go in that direction, went to a model that, instead of acting on these issues, went to the division by zones. They've created eight zones and they've been assigned to each of these areas, where sectors that little or nothing has to do with the sea sector directly are those that have most of these local fishing action groups right now. Linked to the European Union's strategic plan on fishing, indeed, the challenges of GALP are essentially linked to environmental or tourism issues, but not to productive and extractive sector issues, not to live dignifiedly from the sea, to increase income or to promote generational relevance; these are not the priorities of these local fisheries action groups. Targets are side issues with footwear to justify what they have to do with the sea sector. In fact, they are projects that are in municipalities that have sea and that bear, in some cases, the name of sea or mariner in their nomenclature, or in which they will eat seafood; it's a very important matter. We do not know how these issues are checked; it is one of the subjects that we would like you to explain to us: what level of inspection and verification there are these establishments that are subsidized because there will be in the letter products from the sea; how they then verify those issues. And so, in this way, we found ourselves, in fact, with grants from projects such as the Nautico Lounge Bar, the Beach Club & Coffee, the creation of the tavern and event room Marines of the sea—it has something to do with the sea—it has something to do with sea, the child school Tranvi I from the sea—effectively: take sea, the hostel of pilgrims Estela do Mar, the pilgrim hostel Estela do Mar, indeed: take the sea theme, a project to improve pedestrian access to the bay area in the greenhouse of the Xillas, in the East Sea, the Hotel Solpor do Coido, the Hotel A Marine, a Jacobean Nautical Crossway to the Royal Club of Itates of Baiona Islands of Baiona Islands of Baiona — my marinery — indeed, the creation of a crafted brewing beer — with water water, but a beer, but a beer shop, home Carmelite house — sea, sea, sea, the Hotel A Hotel A of Lo Lo Lo Lo Lo Lo Lo Lo Lo Lo Lo Lo Lo Lo Lo Lo Lo Lo Lo Lo Lo, Camping, Camping R R R Rio, The Bay, The Bay, The Bay, the Bay of the Bay of the Bay of the Bay of the River, the Bay of the Bay of the Bay of the former of the former of the former of the former of the former of the former of the former of the former ca of the former of the former restaurant and the former restaurant, the former restaurant, the former restaurant, the Ca of the Ca and the Ca of the former restaurant, the former restaurant, the former restaurant, the former restaurant, the Ca and the Ca and the former restaurant, and the former restaurant, and the Caonnainainainainainai of the ca and the ca and the former restaurant, a restaurant, a restaurant, a restaurant, a restaurant, a restaurant, a restaurant, a restaurant, a restaurant, a restaurant, a kitchen, a kitchen, a kitchen, a kitchen, a kitchen, a kitchen, a kitchen, a kitchen and a kitchen, a kitchen, a kitchen and a kitchen and a kitchen and a kitchen and a kitchen and a kitchen and a kitchen and a kitchen and a kitchen and a kitchen and a kitchen and a kitchen, a kitchen, a kitchen, a kitchen, a kitchen and a kitchen and a kitchen and a kitchen, a kitchen and a kitchen and a kitchen and a kitchen and a [[Laughter]] If I wasn't serious, I'd laugh. Yes, it would be a laugh if it wasn't really the story. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Where do I want to go? That, under the topic of local fishing action groups, what they do is go to the European Union's saying, which aims to reduce fishing, and people who work at sea, who want to live from the sea, who want to have decent sea rents, who want to improve their living conditions at sea, turns out, instead, that we drift to marine tourism and we drift to restaurants and hotels. [[Murmurs.]] I don't say that this doesn't have to do; what I say is that, Counselor of the Sea, your concern should be to work for the people of the sea, improve their incomes and their working conditions. That should be your concern, and not these kinds of issues which, in fact, will have to be within the competence of the tourism sector or other types of competition, and should not attract resources that would have to go precisely so that, instead of the situation at sea, there could be another. Because I have to remind you, Counsellor, that in the time you've been a consultant, ten years, who are the period of existence of these local fishing action groups, in Galicia there are 3,769 people less affiliated to the special fisheries and aquaculture regime, 3,769! In 2009 there were 24,841 and in 2018, 21,072; this is the balance sheet. One of the goals of these programs was job creation; you gave the data of six hundred and something, but you didn't say exactly what sector, what type of job, how many days, months or weeks is the job you create. During this period there are 489 permex less, Counselor, and on the topic of women: 1,165 minus; men's increases, but women's ones have gone down. We won't get tired of telling him. A newspaper, in mid-June, gave the fact that, in the last decade, Galicia has eight hundred ships less — sixty-six in the last year — and that the Greek fleet needs urgent and necessary modernization, because it is the oldest in the state: thirty-six years in average, only comparable to that of the Canary Islands. So with this balance of the productive and extractive sector of the sea, you are, of course, dedicated to the European Union and the Spanish State, who decide what things can be subsidized and where the sector has to go: towards its disappearance and to create these work alternatives which — I insist — would have to be created from other areas. So we could talk about the difficulty in the operation of managing these coastal action groups because of a lack of model at the beginning and a lack of model at the end. Because it is clear that in the design of the European Union for our sea, the productive and extractive sector is becoming less and less important; the sea is not as a fundamental sector in our country and as a strategic sector for the creation of wealth, employment and well-being, but as a complementary sector. These types of groups are going to make the sea a complementary sector. Not part of the identification of which the problems and needs of the sector are, there is not a country project, a project that addresses the professionals of the sea and the problems and needs identified — as I told you earlier — the recovery of productive areas, the lack of seed, the low production of seafood banks, those issues. Theoretically, if we go to the DAFO analyses of each of these groups, Mrs. Quintana, which each area makes its own diagnosis of what the situation is, we find that, for example, the group of Vigo-A Guard in its weaknesses establishes that there is a generational gap, that the fishery product has a poor commercialization and low added value, that there is a decrease in fishing resources due to mortality, that there is a lack of research to know how marine resources are diminished, that there is a management of poor fisheries resources and that there is little visibility to the advances of the artisanal fisheries sector. In the Marine-Ortegal they identify: fishing activity in retrogression due to the shortage of marine or fisheries resources, decrease or disappearance of the marine, fewer boats, loss of jobs and income from fishing activity, loss of shellfish areas, misuse of resources, lack of processing processes that bring value added to the final product, low prices at first sale, sector with low prestige and difficulties for generational relief. In the case of the Arousa River, they state that there are problems related to the production and marketing of resources, the lack of services and defective structures for marketing, the lack of marketing strategies and the value of products together and the shortage of products at certain times. These are the weaknesses that the groups detect and put in their DAFO analyses. Do you really believe, Counselor, that with the projects that are then presented and carried out, one of these problems identified by the groups itself is solved? Do you believe that with that relationship of unknown products, that everyone presents their inconceivable project without any relation, without responding to any strategy and without responding to any planning by the board, if they solve these weaknesses — to him some, we could read them completely—detected by the groups themselves? From the BNG we think we don't; we sincerely believe that they don't go at all to the bottom of the problems people in the sea have. You say they make millions of euros available to the sector, four hundred and I peak approved projects. I'd like you to tell me how many are executed and how many are in operation. I'd like you to give me that data, because you guys have that habit of saying they're...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u75	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u76	...charts at the disposal of the sector, but put them on the top shelf for them to be seen there, but not accessible...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u77	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u78	...and that they do not return directly to the sector. Then I'll continue with my intervention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u79	Thank you very much. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea to Mrs Quinteiro Araújo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u80	Thank you, President. Good morning. Well, the first thing we have to tell you is that, despite its intervention, we believe that, as always, it has been quite triumphalist, it has described a reality that unfortunately does not exist, because the fundamental objective of these groups within the strategy in which they are framed, the European Strategy 2020, which is the creation of quality employment, social inclusion and economic growth, we understand that this fundamental objective is not being achieved. By the way, before you go in, I think it's an irresponsibility that you talk about the importance for the economy of the job generated by the start-up of these projects only during the creation of the project, when the important thing is that these projects generate quality jobs in the medium and long term, not only at the time of the project's creation. As I say, I believe that this fundamental goal that is marked within the local action groups is not being effective, and the data we believe does not give rise to doubts or interpretation. The sector is losing its jobs year after year; it loses its jobs and, in addition, the job created is of the worst quality. We have lost, ever since the People's Party ruled, the twenty-five percent of jobs in the sea sector, and even today we have known the figures of discharges and incomes in the lengths of Greece, which is the worst — in the first six months of this year — of the last five years. Also, another of the fundamental objectives set out in the FEMMP funds is the need for generational relief, and the data don't give any doubt: we've only lost young people in the sector in recent times. If we do an evaluation of the boys in 2009 who were under the age of twenty-five and the ones that are now, we see how we went from two thousand five hundred to a thousand seven hundred. We believe this is the general framework that we have to debate, because by making or drawing a reality that doesn't exist and that's a lie it's very hard for us to move forward. We believe that the lack of incorporation of young people into the sector has structural problems: there is danger and there are no material conditions worthy of many people, and we believe, indeed, that there is no support from the administration. Because, when we're talking about these funds, it's essential for us to also link it to the bet and funds of the Sea Council itself, and we know that the game of incorporation of young people always has very low levels of execution: thirty-five or forty percent. The same is true of the situation of women: there is absolutely nothing being done to improve the situation of the enormous inequality that women in the sector are experiencing. We believe that the reasons for this situation obviously cannot be unique and exclusively for local action groups. There are many causes, but we actually believe that the Galician Union has been betting on the hidden conversion of the sector for a long time. That is the reality and we believe that it is the fundamental debate, because they set out an objective and then the policies that are going on do not correspond at all to those objectives that are set out. If we talk about our own groups, even though they're also very closely linked to the rest of the budget, we think there's a lot of things that need to be improved. One is the low execution of funds, which we believe you're trying to deny or say that it's not a low execution, but for us the level of execution of these funds is very low. It cannot be admitted that in 2018, for example, some 60 percent of the unexecuted funds remained, which is more than half of the funds. Whenever we have this debate, it is false, because they talk about increasing funds, but they don't talk about the low level of execution. There's no point in raising funds if we then have these levels of execution so low. We believe that the Council has to make a critical review of why we are at this point, because systematically every year there are these levels of execution that are so low on European funds and also on the Council's own funds. We believe that arguments are always used as an excuse, such as the subject of the difficulty of handling the aid — and we agree — but it is time that there is not a problem again and again and that there is a need to simplify the aid, but that something is done, that some measure is taken to actually end this excess of bureaucracy. Then, we believe that another of the main concerns of these groups is a little that a concrete political action by the Government is missing so that the projects are really meant to defend the objectives that are stated. The problem is, I think we have no agreement in this case; our group has no agreement with the Government's group on which these fundamental objectives of the funds must be. What is clear to us is that they should serve to improve our production model, but not to replace it, which we believe is the path that is following a little bit in recent times. Because, in fact — as you have already been told — it cannot be that much of the projects will be geared to hospitality and tourism. In addition, we talked about more than half of the projects that were being taken to this area of hospitality and tourism: in 2017, thirty-nine of the seventy-five projects; in 2018, twenty-four of the thirty-eight projects. That's the reality of local action groups, and that's what we need to evaluate. It is a mistake for us to understand that the growth of fishing communities will be uniquely and exclusively associated with tourism; in fact, we believe that, reading memories, there is an obvious oversizedness of these projects — as I say — hotels and restoration. It bets on tourism, but there is no kind of reflection on the need to destabilize tourism. Tourism is only focused on summer months in Galicia and nothing is being done to address this issue. After tourism, the second point where funds are most targeted is in the processing sector, but if we see the funds for marketing and fishing, it's a very low percentage. We believe that this is where the government's political line should be changed: that should be justly — which has a lower percentage — which had the main percentage, because it must be the priority for job creation directly in the sector; we believe that most should go to the extractive sector. We don't understand how, for example, if we do an evaluation, when we always talk about the importance of improving the productivity of vessels, we see that in these years — from 2016 to 2018 — there is only one project dedicated to improving a vessel that has been worth 200 euros, a figure — in our opinion — ridiculous. The same is true when it comes to climate change — I will not extend myself because I do not have time — by saying that nothing is achieved; we will have to see what concrete projects have been made to defend the climate struggle and also what issues has made the Galician Union — more than nothing — to fight climate change. We believe that the Galician Union must have a proactive role. We must respect the autonomy of the groups, but we cannot — in our opinion — do what we are doing now, which is a loss of functions, because if there is no direct support from the administration and to mark that political orientation, what is happening is that those who are not large companies do not have access to these local action groups. In fact, we would have to review the impossibility of financing our own projects, because you know a lot of people can't do a project for the cost of this project, which if they didn't get the grant later would be irrecoverable. We believe that this must be a turn to regulation itself. And then, finally, we believe that this should also serve, for example, to recover our marine ecosystems, which are in a very dramatic situation. We want to take advantage of this attendance to respond to a concern that we find very important in the sector, which is the subject of the mud of the dredging of the river Lérez. You will say that this has nothing to do with the appearance; for us it has everything to do with it: we are talking about an urgent situation, a situation that is worrying about the whole sector and the ecological groups. This same weekend Ecoloxists in Action and APDR denounced this situation. We understand that they have been giving contradictory information for weeks and that they have absolutely no clarity on this issue — in our opinion — and we believe that we must demand clarity. Because they often come here saying that they defend our laughs, but then, in practice, we see this decision, that it is concrete. If they go back, we think it's the pressure of the sector, not their own will, because the statements are made.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u81	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u82	The same is true of the Touro mine, and the same is true of the situation, in general, where our rivers are found. There's nothing to say about defending the sector when they're using laughter as dumps, which is what's been happening for so many years. We take advantage of this appearance — and it is over — because we find it fundamental and important that the Fisheries Adviser respond to the needs and issues that are being demanded by the sector itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Toja.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u84	Thank you, President. Good morning. Good morning, Counselor. Well, since you've already got a picture, you already have the headline for the non-campaign they're immersed in. But I'm also going to give you a headline today, look, "The confrereries question that the GALP doesn't add any more funds to the fishing sector." [[Mrs. Toja Suárez shows you a document to the members of the House.]] It's not that we tell him, that he tells each and every one of the voices that we've just been here or that we're going to be here, but that he's already told his own confreres: few GALP funds are added to the fishing sector, very few. You think you talked here about thirty-three percent, about forty-two percent, because that leaves six out of ten that don't go to the fishing sector, being funds coming from the Maritime and Fisheries Fund; it seems to us to take into account. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] On the other hand, on the first day of the participatory local development strategy of the FEMP, the strategy on which these action groups would be based was based was the modernization of the sector. The spokesperson for the BNG said that, as a mean, the Welsh vessels are around thirty-six years old. What we ask you is, with these numbers, how many euros of these GALP projects were dedicated to the modernization of engines? How much? It is an easy question, to see if you can give me an answer, especially in view of the fact that in the budgets of the Sea Council there are only two hundred thousand euros, of a hundred and sixty million euros — two hundred and a thousand euros — for the modernization of engines. So that's the first question we ask him. The second is about generational relief; we think it's a fundamental issue of concern, and it's also on axis 3, sustainable growth, territory, sea, agriculture, livestock and mountains, in strategic plan 2015-2020. What we ask you is: of those two hundred sixty-seven -- it seems to me that you said -- direct jobs that were generated through the GALPs, how many were jobs in the sea and how many were jobs on earth? Because it's two hundred sixty-seven, but what we're afraid of is that most of these jobs develop on land, and here are many examples of the kind of establishments that are created: coffee shops, inns, interpretative paths... At this point, it seems that the counselor, Mr. Román Rodríguez, of Tourism, or Mr. Conde, of Commerce, who comes to you, the sea councillor, speaks to us about the GALP funds, because the final destination goes to other sectors, such as tourism, commerce and hospitality, and not so much to the sea. So the second question we ask you is, these direct jobs that you say were created, how many were created directly in the sea, and not on land? We asked this, basically, because, according to the Active Population Survey, in recent years, since Feijóo governs, one out of every five posts that were directly related to the sea has been lost, one out of every five! But in the case of women, the data is even more worrisome, because one in three jobs has been reduced since the Feijó government in Galicia. If we had taken into account the permit of shellfish — as already mentioned here — we have also lost one out of every three for women; it is the women who assumed for the most part — let's say, absolutely — the loss of the permit of shellfish: 1,165 less since 2009, that there were 3,887 until the end of 2018, that there were 2,722. I'm telling you, this data is from the Galego Institute of Statistics, official data from the Galego Institute of Statistics: 1,165 permits for shellfish less, and one out of every three assumed by women. So what we ask of you is that you also try to give us answers so that the appearance can be constructive and that we don't end up discussing the source of the data. Because I'm very afraid that, really, these funds that ultimately go to the LAGs are not meeting the goal they should have, and we regret that they're taking advantage of an opportunity. Because it's an opportunity for us to have these funds, but it's being wasted, as this is reflected by the data from the Survey of Active Population and also by the data related to the permit of shellfish. We understand that if you're losing an opportunity, and -- as I said to you -- we're not just telling you, but you're also telling the confrereries: "They question that the GALP doesn't add any more funds to the fishing sector. Major patterns do not agree with the way the GALP works because the subsidies do not go directly to fishing. (...) Discrete because the GALP has been created to improve the lives of the marine people, but much of the public funds (...) in recent years we have received companies linked to the tourism sector". [[Mrs. Toja Suárez shows you a document to the members of the House.]] This is what it says, more or less, this news of a known medium, that you know well. It is true that we have a problem of losing busy people and losing shellfish permits; we have a problem that I understand is very related to the low execution of the Sea Council and those European funds. Here, the 723A programme, which is a program that is intended for most of the budget funds of the Sea Council, leaves six out of every 10 euros without running. In this program are games related to generation relief, motor modernization games and are split like climate change mitigation. You here told us about climate change; I would also like to say that today, if you can, you've explained to us how climate change is mitigated with EUR 88,000; one hundred and sixty million that has the Sea Council, for the mitigation of climate change EUR 88,000. So it's very good that you mention it in this audience, but we also understand that resources are needed, because it's true that there's a problem, but you have to spend money on it, and eighty thousand euros seem totally insufficient. In addition, what we see in this program and others, in general, is that, when it comes to the end of the year, there are games that might be important, such as aid to young fishermen, who go to programme 723A, which is marketing measures. I mean, there's a very low execution and, above all, these games, when it's getting to the end of the year, over the month of September, that there'd still be a certain margin to be able to perform some kind of activity or anticipation proactivity and to really try to ask for these aids, it's easier to use them for marketing than to carry out activities to get people to ask for those subsidies. So we understand that — as we say to you, and we have already mentioned here various places, cafes, inns, gourmets, interpretative paths... — it seems more than the goal was that the sea sector rests than it was active, by the destinations of these games. But since the projects are based on local development and designed to contribute and achieve strategic goals, we also ask you today why they don't mark as a strategic goal to recover the number of shellfish permissions; that would be a good strategic goal, and also to recover the number of people occupied in the sea, because that number of people, since you rule, has done nothing but go down. Because the truth is, if these GALPs really have as their goal and are framed within what is local development and designed to contribute to achieving those strategic goals, let's put as their target...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u85	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u86	...recovering the number of people occupied in the sea and setting as an objective also recovering the number of seafood permits. Not that we say it, but that it is collected — as we say — in its strategic plan. On the other hand, priority 4 of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund includes, in its first subparagraph, increasing value, creating employment, attracting young people, promoting innovation, etc. We see that this Maritime and Fisheries Fund may be destined, precisely, to incorporate these people into the sea, but what we see is that the targets set are not enough to recover those permits or those people occupied. It won't give me much more time, so now we're asking you these questions: what part of the direct jobs were at sea, not other types of activities? That question has already been put in writing and we have not got an answer, so it would be great to take advantage of that you are here today to give us an answer. Which part is also going to modernize engines? And then I also wanted to ask you, although I hardly have time, but for you to think about the answer, why do you keep in the GALP 3 of the Coast of Death — as Mr. Casal asked — as president this person of a confrerere who is not the most representative of the Coast of Death in number of ships...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u87	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u88	...and he's not a representative of the fishing sector either, because, as you know, she's retired. Nothing else for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u90	Good morning. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor, thank you very much for coming, on your own request, to appear today in the House, in Parliament, in an exercise of transparency, and talk about the GALP. Because, in the face of the interventions I've heard here... Well, you understand exactly what the GALP means, you clearly explained how Together and the Government of Greece works as a tool for these funds to reach the people who demand them and the coastal towns. Therefore, I will begin at the end of your intervention. You spoke of co-governance, more and more re-edited by the Board, and spoke of a new phase with 300 approved projects. No matter who cares, that's a reality, it works. The Galician Council and this councillor, from time to time, mostly from 2009, started working with these GALPs, and they're producing results. It is therefore a successful, committed and autonomous management, with great autonomy, on the part of the people who ask for this help. Future challenges: the necessary simplification and axillization in the implementation of the new fund, which will enter into force in 2021. You're talking about not being self-criticized; the advisor talked about the challenges of the future and the needs that need to be improved to access these funds. The advantages: opportunities for young people and girls — you have laughed here at some business routes that create people living in coastal villages — more employment and social cohesion in fishing communities, boosting environmental and cultural heritage, marine tourism of diversification — why not? — accompanied by fishing activity, biotechnology, fighting climate change and many other activities. I'm not going to have to do the figures, the ones the advisor has found out well, but I have to do a series of appreciations and answers to the voices of the other groups. Mr. Casal, all kindness, but I'm telling you that Google, in this case, didn't work for you, because you did a Tetris puzzle or things you read in the press with your preconceived speech, and it's not worth talking to you about chiringuits for everything. This speech I hear today about the fishing sector or the sea sector I listen to in the industry, I hear it when it comes to energy, and you always have that same mantra. So then you won't be able to learn; with that preconceived speech and already directly putting some things in front of the counselor, which you also recognized you you don't know, so you won't learn. I have to deny the biggest, absolutely; what you said here are accusations that I think they are not at all grounded and that they are far out of the discourse of the sea sector and of the GALP itself. So we're going to give you some more opportunity, since you're now in that Mixed Group or inside of En Marea, because the name does learn it well, but what is the GALP hasn't learned very well. Well, I think you'll change your mind when you know well what these funds are dedicated to, how does the Council itself, what they are exactly and how they go towards the future. I have to tell Mrs. Prado that you have had an absolute disrespect here for many people who have all the legitimacy and all the need to start a business or do some activity with these funds and which have to do with the dynamisation of a coastal town. You laughed here at a lot of new projects that exist, that people live on these things. So I think you can live together. These GALPs talk about dynamization and they talk about diversification, so you have to take this into account. Of course, we're going to have to put the vote here, too, as if we have to call the different businesses that we open, because some do and some do not, even if they devote themselves exactly to it. So I think you also have to have a little more depth in the debate and you have to have a little more consistency. It's just that you talk to me about a whole list of names used by people who open up business with these funds, and I don't think it's serious. So I think you're the one who has to go down to reality and know how these towns are getting dynamized, how they help young people and girls, how they also help women in many cases, and how they help families, that from time to time they see how the fishing industry is evolving in other areas as well. I think you have to -- I insist -- go down a little bit to reality and know that these funds are exactly what they're looking for. And the advisor also spoke here: there's a high percentage of funds that go directly also to the extractive sectors of what you've been talking about. Are you against two GALPs? They may not have been able to get them out of the Bipartite. So I think that, perhaps, if you're not against the people who ask you to perceive these aids, then you should say so clearly. Because I think, in addition -- and I spoke before -- that this has absolute autonomy, and it's interesting and important that we know what people are demanding that they also want to fix the population and that they want to live in fishing villages. And it speaks of generational relief: well, there are other projects also devoted, from the Council, to this subject; other games. The GALPs are also going for that, but there are also other projects, which today is not the subject; they haven't talked about this, because they come to talk about these very GALPs. Mrs. Quinteiro, you talked about indefinite jobs and the quality of employment. Well, some of the conditions of these GALP are those, and precisely now they are -- as we said -- improving and increasing the conditions for the needs that we support and asking for to be a reality with those aids. Look: you change groups, but the canteen is the same, and you come here to talk about your book; yes, Mrs. Quinteiro, there was already a question to answer the subject of what you talked about here: the advisor, in the full past, answered exactly what you just asked him, with total transparency. And since you want to keep that debate, you want to keep that topic on the table and you want to mess it up, Mrs. Quinteiro, you have to pull it out again in this audience. Look: the Counsellor answered with total transparency in the past; therefore, I believe that, if you talk about false debate, perhaps you should look at yourself more in your group and not here — as I say — which made the Counsellor an absolute exercise of transparency. I think you're chilling, you're simplifying. You may like this subject more or less. The counselor made self-criticism, said there were things to improve, but they frivolized absolutely in their interventions. Look: just looking at the FEMP period analyzed in the 2016-2018 reports, the fisheries sector has promoted a total of one hundred and seven projects, representing forty-two percent of the total projects. So they don't say there's nothing related to the fishing sector; there are projects that are directly linked to the fishing sector, but a coastal village has a lot of diversification and dynamization to get out ahead and keep surviving. Why do you fiercely criticize businesses and lines of work linked to marine tourism? We don't understand. And industrial too, the promotion of marine culture; we believe that this will also serve a great deal for the dynamization of these villages. It should also be remembered that the groups themselves are responsible for ordering priorities and adjusting funds for each of them through participatory local development strategies. So there's autonomy, and I think that, in addition to these funds, there is a great deal about the needs and wills of people living in these villages to invest them. In the case of the people who are talking about some of them, I would confrere and who is in front of a GALP, look: it's the associations that select representatives; the associations themselves, not the advisor. So I think it's the ones who participate and are part of the LAGs as an association. The presidency of the LAG on the Death Coast, in this case, fell into a confrerery, and very recently, in addition, there were elections and it fell back on that person. So you don't blame the Government here for everything you want to debate or don't like, because that's not true. And I insist: in the matter of the GALP there is absolute autonomy in the use of these funds. Mrs. Toja, how can you talk about campaigning when you were ten months old, Sánchez and his Ally Round of electoral campaign to revalid a majority in the polls? Because they were campaigning; because they also left in a box very important themes for Galicia. Why does the Ministry of Ecological Transition serve? What does it only do to make advertisements to harm Galicia? Because it also talks about the importance of the environment, but we understand that from the central government what they're doing is going against.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u91	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u92	So I think you're mixing a lot of things, but this intervention was not appropriated by the voices of the groups. Because I believe that the GALP and the FEMP in Galicia, some European aids that the Union sets up as a tool for channeling and reaching people, are very beneficial to our autonomous community, very beneficial for coastal villages and the fishing sector. So, I believe and I hope that you, in your next turn, can clarify some of the things they said here, that most of them are not true. Mrs. Toja, an appreciation, which you always speak of the 723A: you always speak of the execution of that game, but in budgets you continually ask for it to be reduced. So we never understand very well how you in that debate are always with that contradiction. And look, I tell you, in addition, that the population occupied by extractive fishing in Galicia increased by seven percent from 2015 to 2017, and the fleet of minor arts was, in addition, the most likely to contribute to that increase in occupation. So I also like to clarify this subject. Counsellor, all of us with regard to new entrepreneurs, investments made with these GALP funds and that you are also involved in generational relief, employment of young people and girls, and the dynamization and diversification of coastal towns. So I think you left some questions on the table without any sense, but I think you have very clear what you came here today with total transparency -- I insist -- and therefore we thank you very much for doing this transparency exercise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u93	Thank you. Replica, Counselor of the Sea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, I must begin, necessarily, by thanking Mrs. Egerique for her words, because they give a little bit of courage. The truth is, after hearing the speeches of the voices of all groups, I was feeling very little there. I have to say clearly, Mr. Casal: you started your intervention by saying that we had benevolence, and I can understand that the fishing sector must be loved, you have to work hard with him and it's hard to understand a lot of things. And I, of course, will always respect all the voices and all those people who want to get closer to the fishing sector and who want to know in detail what their needs and questions are. But the truth is, you start by asking for kindness and you already insult the local groups of the fishing sector by calling them chiringuitos, we hardly started. We're getting worse! [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] You came here to ask for information, and I'll give you, of course, here, in my office or out when we can talk, all the information you need, that for that we are. But I believe that in my first intervention I referred to the regulation that developed the coastal action groups of the year 2006 and the regulation concerning the local action groups of the fisheries sector, which is 508/2014, which is what is currently in force. I read those two regulations and even quoted the articles of the regulation that are developed as the GALPs, what they are, how they have to work and what is the fundamental objective that is being sought with these local action groups in the fisheries sector. I can understand that the philosophy of certain Members present in this room does not agree with the European Union's fisheries policy; I can understand that philosophy. But it's clear that everyone, who lives in Galicia, has known for many years that there are rural development groups, which have generated a lot of wealth around the countryside, and it's time for the European Union to remember that, apart from the rural nuclei, there are coastal nuclei, and that it has enabled a specific line so that coastal areas can also benefit from community funds. The intervention of some of those who have talked to me here raises many doubts that they have read the regulation and that they know the purpose of these articles to which I refer in Article 58 of Regulation 508 to 64; they are not so many, they are easy to read. The objective they seek is the diversification of coastal areas, where all the countries that we are part of the European Union have understood that it is difficult for people to live there. So among all administrations we have to do everything possible to make these places attractive, so people can go live and make an economic development. That is the goal that is being sought through these local fishing action groups. How are you looking? Precisely doing it from the bottom, from society itself, that doesn't intervene in administration. And so every local action group in the fisheries sector is made up of all the associations that say the regulation has to be part of, and it states that the fisheries sector has to have a fundamental representation, which establishes forty-nine percent. That's why all the local action groups in the fisheries sector have as president a representative of the fisheries sector. But, further away, one cannot only seek from these funds from the local fisheries action groups to finance all activities related to the fisheries, seafood and aquaculture sector; the fisheries sector, the seafood sector and the aquaculture sector already have their own funds. This is specific for the dynamization of coastal areas, from that dynamization and that diversification there are certain businesses, one hundred and twenty-one in particular, which I think is not a minor issue when we're talking about coastal cores; one hundred and twenty-one businesses have been created from 2016 to 2018. It is clear that the fishing sector also has the capacity to present projects within these local fishing action groups, of course yes; thus, more than forty-two percent of the approved projects were presented by the fishing sector itself. You asked me a lot of things that said they smelled bad. Look: each group presents its own participatory local development strategy, that strategy is approved, and within it it it is established what are the priorities that will be financed in every stretch of the coast where that group works. It's also said — and it's here talking about a headline — that the fishing sector is unhappy because it doesn't have enough projects. There are different groups that are running at different pace, and that group is precisely what's already virtually run out of all the credit lines you have to develop certain projects, and now they're going to have to unwind the fisheries sector projects; but it's also going to have to be the fishing sector itself, what these projects are running within the strategy they've approved and can then be actually funded because they meet all the requirements. All these projects are audited by external teams and verified by a team of verifiers. All these projects are funded from European funds and therefore have comprehensive financial control, from the minute up to five years after the project has been operational. Of course, in this time of intervention by the different groups, things that hurt me, because you can criticize the initiative that certain young people have to make certain projects in the coastal areas that is really sad. Because these people are putting their heads on, risking their capital, looking for economic movement into their area and betting on living in their area, which is what they have to do, and I think the only thing they deserve from us, politicians, is the greatest respect. [[Applause]] Mrs. Prado said we had adopted many projects, but how many were executed. I in my first intervention said it, but in case you didn't take note, I read again exactly what I said: "You'll have to make the first balance of this FEMP period now. Since 2016, the first order has been published until the end of 2018, three hundred projects have already been approved, of a total of six hundred forty-nine presented, of a total amount of nineteen million euros. It's important that, of the total projects approved by the Council of the Sea -- because, Mr. Casal, the group approves the projects and then they come to pass an audit to the Council itself, which is the one that says if all the projects approved by the GALP meet the requirements set out in their strategies -- "they went out ahead of eighty-four percent, and it must be pointed out that they managed to mobilize a total of forty-three million euros of investment, of which forty percent are of public help." This was my first intervention, I suppose I'd take note now. Of course, Mrs. Prado says here that they are issues with footwear; I say and repeat: the most respect to all those people who want to bet on their economic activity in a coastal area of Galicia; thanks to them we will be able to keep our entire coastline alive. Is it so hard to understand that, if there is an economic movement, there will be more movement in the generation of employment, also directly in extractive positions? Is that so hard to understand? [[Murmurs.]] Is it so hard to understand that, if we have restaurants suitable for tourists visiting us, which say that the second reason they visit us is gastronomy and that they are willing to pay for the quality of our fish and seafood, those restaurants and bars that are opened in these coastal areas will increase the value of the products on our shores? Is that so hard to understand? Well, if it's hard for you, I ask you to go out and visit people like Corcubion and see how they've changed, see how they've changed and see how they've changed, or visit any of the people where all those projects have been developed. Even Farnet—I said: Farnet is an entity of the European Union that oversees all the work done in the different GALPs of all countries—is a constant example of Galicia. Every time Farnet convenes prizes for projects developed around axis 4, there are always Galician projects. I believe that what we can do as Greeks is to feel, precisely, proud of what the fishing sector is doing, but also all the social and economic agents in all the coastal areas of Galicia, because we are an example in Spain and we are an example throughout Europe. Mrs. Quinteiro was worried about the funds. Mrs. Quinteiro, I don't want to make excuses for bad payers or much less; I describe reality, and the reality is that this operating program has cost a lot to get it started. We are the autonomous community that is first running. I can tell you that, right now, from the European fisheries funds we have executed a hundred and forty-two million euros, which means an average of forty-seven million euros a year, and there is ten million above what we would have to do with the execution of the three hundred seventy-one million we've been charged with for the entire operational programme. So, we've been able to start -- I know it from minute one -- and we've had a lot of difficulties, we still say that this fund needs to be flexible, because it makes it very difficult for the sector to access the funds and it's very difficult administratively to process; but in any case, we're above average execution that we would have to have for all these ten years of the operating program. Mrs. Toja I don't know anymore, then of what Mrs. Egerique told you, what else to tell you. She's engaged in a budget game, and a few days she says we don't execute her and other days she wants to remove funds from that game to send them to another one. Mrs. Toja, all the projects that have been presented to improve safety on board the ships have been approved; all those who met the requirements. Don't tell me now that I tell you how many engines have modernized with the help of the GALP. GALP's help is not to modernize engines. You know how I am — because it's not like Mr Casal; it's been years of fishing voter -- that we have a problem with the fishing sector, and it's the problem of modernising ships, that the European Union is not letting us finance the modernization of those ships. And you know that Galicia, as a region that has been able to make the ruling that has been approved unanimously of what should be the new European Maritime Fund for Fisheries, the first thing that has put in place is the need to finance new ships that improve living on board and also improve energy efficiency. So we continue on that line, fighting in Brussels, which is where we have to do it, defending our positions with arguments and seeking more and more partners from other countries who also support our arguments. Finally, I came here this morning to explain how the eight local groups of action in the fisheries sector are working, those I want to congratulate from here too, because they're doing so very well, it's the groups that are running European funds better. Of course, I'd like you to get out of here with that spirit of getting out of your head that's neither chiring nor the Council puts anyone there, because the groups are organized from below: it's the associations themselves that decide to integrate into each group and it's that group of associations that elects your president. The Council and Council of Galicia do not appoint or remove GALP presidents. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u95	Thank you, Counselor. Special round. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u96	Well, first I want to draw a little attention to Mr. Diego Calvo, who rebuked me for telling me that I represent the Political Group of En Marea, when we've been listening to "the tides of Podemos" for three years. That's what you can say when you want, but when you say you represent a political group, which is what I represent, you call my attention; a little weird, but at last.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u97	No, it's a different thing. I think one thing is to represent a political group, and that's right; another thing is a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u98	No, I spoke of a political group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u99	A parliamentary group is another issue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u100	Let's leave it, it's not worth it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u101	Okay, that's it. Here we go.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u102	Mrs. Egerique, of course I don't know much about this sector, it's obvious — for now — but self-engagement and concealment are not practices that help to come to knowledge, and that's what you seem to practice. Because of the curious things I was talking about, she answered me almost none; the counselor yes, a little more, I have to admit it. But the reality is that it hasn't been answered, for example, because most associations that belong to these GALP partners have nothing to do with the fisheries sector. You say the regulation says that forty-nine percent; for your own website indicates that most of them don't go from twenty percent. What happens, that decree is not so clear, that regulation is so clear? I read what you put on your website; most of it is between eighteen and twenty-one percent, and you say it has to be forty-nine. No, it's just, on the social side, that a very direct association of housewives with the fishing sector doesn't have. Yes, yes: diversification; but forty-nine percent has to have a direct relationship with the fishing sector. [[Mrs. Quintana Carballo speaks words that are not perceived.]] I'm not saying that it might be that some of these associations have some cousin sailor, but it doesn't seem the easiest. The thing is clear: where do the money come from? Money comes from the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. I think that there should be little more to say about the inadequate implementation of the funds. And marine tourism itself, but what has to do with fixing a terrace — which, in addition, sells croquettes and other things — with marine tourism? Because precisely the terrace we're talking about, which seems to be very famous, doesn't sell exactly quality marine products in the area—then I tell you the name, you get into TripAdvisor and you'll see the comments—and, above, with virtually no job creation. [[Murmurs.]] Diversification yes, but within the fisheries sector. We are within the European fund devoted to marine policies, to marine policies; then, diversification yes, marine tourism yes, but directly related to the sector. Because for the rest of the activities — obviously, tourism in coastal areas is essential — I believe that there are already other bodies and other funds, both in the European Union and in the autonomous community, to which it should be used. You can't say they're given to fix terraces because there's nowhere to put it, because there's no initiatives. Counsellor, you are very competent in this sector and you know that, if there are no initiatives, you have to encourage them; it is also the responsibility of the politicians. Because you can't tell me that you can't get more value added to artisanal fishing, that you can't do other types of direct marketing, both physical and online. What do you mean, no? So the strange thing is, if there are no projects that work on that line, the government doesn't encourage them. I know several initiatives, especially in the area of the Coast of Death, truly outstanding.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u103	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u104	Well, maybe if you invite the children or people around the marines and artisans to visit those initiatives, they might start thinking about it. The other day I was listening to him in Lira, a gentleman who asked the other man, "Hey, why are they calling him a horse in the yard?" Because the yard is sold three euros and the horse fifteen. But if it's the same fish! Yeah, but it's the brand image and the prestige that involves a brand. Well, there is investing in brands, investing in marketing, investing in marketing and investing in the development of the ability to directly reach consumers, which would be completely feasible. It can't be that on the far side you're selling a two-euro product and then you're selling in Barcelona at 17 or 18 o'clock. The other day, a sailor who was there in Lira too, coming from the coast of Catalonia, said to me: We fished half, but the price multiplied by three, because we put value to the fish product of the moment, the fish that we brought out of there and that we actually sold in a bar there, in the nautical, on the seafront.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u105	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u106	Well, that's the way. There must be thousands of initiatives, and it cannot be that the money that is destined for fishing is used to fix terraces, besides — it seems — in a majority way.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u107	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u108	I mean, I'll counter this information and I'm sure you'll make it easier.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u109	Thank you, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u110	But, really, Counselor, if there are no projects, they motivate people to have them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u111	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u112	So look at one thing, Counselor: I feel very proud of the fishing sector; of which I feel nothing proud is the policies that you do or do not do for the fishing sector. That's why I'm not proud, because, of course, they're against their interests. [[Applause]] A couple things for Mrs. Egerique. She said the advisor knows very well how GALP works. Of course, in fact, you know very well how they work and in which direction you are taking them: in the direction that marks the European Union, in a completely critical way; just like your intervention here today, you are totally critical of the actions of some coastal action groups that do not mostly go to the sea sector. In fact, they're going in that direction to want to replace people from the sea with something else. We criticise these funds and how they're targeted because we don't want seafarers to be replaced; we want seafarers to live from the sea; we want seafarers to not have to make beds in hotels or not have to go serve drinks or coffee in bars. That work — very worthy of it — should be greater, but it should not replace employment and the economy of the sea with these issues. That's what you're doing with the European Union's funds and these local action groups; that's what they're doing. We don't want to replace employment at sea with other kinds of jobs; we want to increase by adding, not by substitution, and that's what they're doing. [[Applause]] Of course, from BNG we don't miss these projects, because if they're told to show up, because they're presented. What, of course, we criticize it is that it has something to do with fishing development, which is what it obviously places in the DOG. It states: "Increasing (...) territorial cohesion by promoting economic growth, social inclusion, job creation and support for employability (...) in fishing and aquaculture communities". Of course, that's what he says; then you do something else, but that's what he says. In fact, one thing is what they put on paper... And of course, people don't ask for projects. Why don't you ask for projects? Because one of the things I'd like you to answer, Counselor, is how many projects have been for artisanal fishing, for example, or for shellfishers. Why don't you ask? Because of the difficulty of operation, because they ask them exactly the same requirements — tons of papers — for a project of two thousand euros than for a project of 300 thousand euros. It turns out that the sea, the bass, and the shellfishers aren't professionals in management, and you don't do anything to support them and that they can present projects that can then be developed. Do you know what a major pattern told me about these projects? They're rich projects, rich projects! Why? Because they need to go to some managers, and if they ask for an engine — which is the issues they need — that is worth six thousand euros, they have to pay the manager for the technical project two thousand or three thousand euros. So they're not focused on what the sector needs; you know it perfectly and you don't do anything to change this issue. I'm a government that doesn't plan, doesn't organize, doesn't push, doesn't guide, because it leaves the sector... so spontaneously! You're not the sea councillor to push, neither to plan a sector, nor to defend the sea sector in our country; you're going to do what you do and for these things, projects, each one on the one side. No, they don't respond to a strategy, Mrs. Quintana, they don't respond to a strategy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u113	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u114	Look: the sector has no direct resources in budget funds or in these GALP projects. It turns out that, from the budget of your board, one hundred sixty million euros, sixty-five respond to FEMP funds, and that you in 2018 left without running more than forty-one; sixty-five left without running more than forty-one! If I had time, I'd explain to you what the situation is: that your board is the lowest budget executioner, continuously. Sixty-five million euros of FEMP funds, and you only executed twenty-four in 2018; I'm no longer doing the global fee. That's the level of efficiency and concern for you to allocate those resources to the improvement of the sea sector. That's why you keep saying, "Let's make the sector available"; what you don't say is that, in the conditions where you put them, the sector can't access them. Look: I'd like you to explain your budget, because it says: the sea sector already has on the other hand in the budget. Look: fisheries infrastructure only ran twenty percent in 2018; social promotion and dissemination of fisheries technology, forty-seven percent; competitiveness and improvement of the quality of fisheries and aquaculture production, fifty-five percent; sustainable development of fisheries areas, twenty-five percent. What are you talking about, Mrs. Quintana? Neither runs the global budget nor then these funds for the coastal action groups that we are talking about are intended for projects that serve the sector directly. I insist: I am a government that does not plan, does not organize, does not push, does not direct the sea sector, because the goal is that it squirms, which is reduced and oriental precisely to these issues.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u115	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u116	And I insist: at the BNG we don't want seafarers to have to leave the sea to go to bed in hotels or sell coffees or drinks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u118	We want them to live and have decent sea rents.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u119	Thank you. Your time is up. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u120	Thank you, President. Again, we first have to tell him that we believe he hasn't answered virtually anything; he gave us a lesson and read us the rules, but the clear questions that we have asked him didn't answer many. The balance is clear: just one job for each productive project; that's the balance. You come here selling it as a huge achievement when you see, in some cases, less than one job per project. Obviously, this is a negative data and, besides, it adds to the general data, because to the general data — as I said in my first intervention — it is summed up that, since you govern, we have lost about twenty-five percent of jobs, about twenty-five percent less! So that's the consequence of the policies they've been taking in the last few years. In view of this situation, instead of moving forward with the same policies, what we should do is take action to change our course and follow a very different path. We believe that, before that, the main thing will be to assess which part of the funds being allocated to the LAGs do not go directly to the sector. This is fundamental to us; in fact, related to it, we do not understand why the Board of Auditors, for example, does not accept our recommendation to make an assessment of the GALP funds. Of course, you always refer to the issue of diversification, but what is not typified is that diversification has to be only with tourism, which is what is happening in everyday life and in reality with these funds. Most of the projects, more than half of the projects in 2016 and 2017, were only tourism: bars, restaurants and hotels; that's the reality. So they don't talk so much about diversification, because the only way out that's being given to the sector is to turn it into a tourist-only zone; that's the way it's going. There are alternatives if there is political will, what happens is that, even in my first intervention, we may not have agreement on the objectives for the sector, perhaps that is one of the problems. You use the argument that you are left with autonomy; you do not leave autonomy when you have to leave autonomy, and in this particular case, that you have to have a clear political strategy to achieve the objectives of these funds, you let you do. Because they do nothing, absolutely nothing, so that, for example, if we improve the conditions of our sailors and the conditions of our sailors, to improve research or to improve productivity. For all this they could serve the funds, but what the administration has to do is have an active role; they can't be in a role — as they are up to now — completely passive, letting it do, because they know that this political line — which is none; the political strategy is non-existent, there's not -- the only thing that gets it is that only big companies that can access these funds in the vast majority of cases. The sector wants access to these funds, but there are obvious difficulties. One has already spoken: the issue of difficulties in processing; and there are many others. As I told you, the non-subsidisation of the project makes it impossible for many people to access and do that project and then take it forward, and the administration will have to do this accompanying work and say that these projects are really going to create quality jobs and generate jobs in the medium and long term. Because only what they're achieving is to convert Galicia into a region that's only touristic.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u121	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u122	We're going to take a minute to answer to the spokesperson for the People's Party, because here the only one who simplified and lied was you. It's a lie that an important percentage goes to extractive projects; I don't say so, said the advisor anyway. It's amazing that they come here to talk about the incorporation of young people and to look at the good they do in this generational relief when they have ridiculous execution percentages in this budget game: thirty-five or forty percent in the board budget game, specifically in the board funds; because when they talk about European funds they say it doesn't depend on you, but this is in the board specific game. And then, finally, to come to say that talking about a problem in the sector, which is worrying about the whole sector, is an insult; but not to me - I don't care exactly what they say - is an insult to the whole sector, which is mobilizing and which is asking the advisor to explain what he's going to do. There is contradictory information and they are not being clear, at all, on this matter. They said one thing the first day; the next week they changed their mind and said they were not muds, that they were arid and nothing happened; now they say nothing, the permanent silence; that's what's going on. So asking for clarity with a question you're worried about is not to mess around. What happens is you want to do is hide the main problem in our sector, which is that the laughs are contaminated in a very alarming way; they turned the laughs into spills. I think they're so worried about this because what you're seeing is that it's not a matter of time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u123	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u124	They've been dumping waste for many years without any control in our rivers and seas. That's what's being evidenced: they've been systematically violating all legislation for many years, and they're systematically polluting, and they don't want to talk about it. Well, obviously, if you're talking about the sea sector, you're talking about river pollution, we think it has a lot to do with it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Toja.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u126	Thank you, President. Really, counselor, you don't like us asking you about low budget executions, but we have to ask you, because if you leave six out of 10 euros without running, you understand that for us your budget is a real failure, a real failure! Six out of every ten euros not running is too much. [[Applause]] And whose responsibility are those budgets? That budget is your responsibility, which is the adviser in this case. She's the sea's advisor and she's the sea's budget; therefore, that failure is your responsibility, and we have to take advantage of that you're here to ask her for those low executions, six out of ten euros. He didn't answer me either, Counselor, the jobs that were created, the jobs; he didn't answer me here, nor did he answer the question we asked him in writing; I'm going to lose some hope. It did not challenge us how many jobs were direct from the sea, how many were for the primary sector of these two hundred sixty-seven posts created, and how many were for the service sector. How much? If you can, please, tell me. [[Mrs. Quintana Carballo speaks words that are not perceived.]] It's very good that these funds are accompanied by funds, as you said, which are funds that are used to accompany the sea sector, and which are accompanied by a proportion of six euros per ten. That is not an accompaniment; they dominate absolutely what budgets are and what they are for the GALP. Then Mrs. Egerique accused us of frivolity. We did what we did was give data: from programme 723A, six out of ten euros not running; one out of five people occupied at sea less in ten years, one out of three in the case of women; one out of three in the case of permit of shellfish, women. I think that's not frivolizing, that's objective data and it's not frivolizing. You also told us that from 2015 to 2017 the active sea population has increased. Well, the same thing you have to do is review what you've been through those years, see why you've increased the active population, try to bring the same management for these years, and thus try to get it to increase these years too, because what's now the active population goes down: one in five people less. With regard to the fate of the GALP funds, counselor, you always tell us that you have a very good relationship with the confrereries, that you talk to them, that you hear the sector, etc. Well, it's not like we're telling him, that's also what the confrereries are saying: the fate of the GALP funds, basically, is not the fishing sector. Biggest patterns don't agree with how to fund LAGs, because subsidies don't go directly to fishing. They discriminate because these GALPs were created to give life to the marine people, but most of that life they are given is precisely in the tourist sector. That's what they're saying, and you can read it here, it's a note this year. [[Mrs. Toja Suárez shows you a document to the members of the House.]] So those questions we asked him...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u127	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u128	Yeah, I'm a minute and a half, I'm under pressure.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u129	I said "go." I'm warning you; we've adopted this strategy now. I didn't tell him to finish, I said, "It'll be over."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u130	It affects concentration. Here's my watch.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u131	Yeah, but what do you want me to do with it? I have to modulate time. What more would I want to give you as before! But I can't.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u132	Thank you, President, for your motivation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u133	Nothing. It'll be the problem!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u134	I'll talk faster. [[Laughter]] Well, in the possible areas of improvement, as you set out in the first day of the participatory local development strategy — of funds, of areas — there are targets, which are: expanding the territorial base of farms, improving their economic management, creating new products and marketing channels, reducing and controlling environmental risks and improving energy efficiency, advancing in the integrated fight of pests and disease control, reducing the pollution of water and the air from greenhouse gases and protecting sustainable exploitation of water resources. I also ask you, how many of these GALP funds have gone to those destinations, how many? Those targets are set on the first day of the participatory local development strategy; it's yours, it's on the Sea Council page. So how many of those GALP funds have gone to these destinations? Then we'll understand a little bit and we'll understand what you're saying, which are accompanying measures to the fisheries sector. We understand that this way is not accompanied; it replaces the fishing sector, and we really care. And nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. [[Mrs. Toja Suárez speaks words that are not perceived.]] What do you want me to do to him? The warning I think has come to you all; I suppose it has come to you all. I don't know if they moved it or not; I spoke to all the spokesmen in this direction. [[Murmurs.]] Let's make this matter clear. I'd rather not be able to cut anyone, but we're... you understand me! [[Murmurs.]] I don't have to talk anymore. [[Murmurs.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u136	Thank you, President. Mr. Casal, you accuse me of self-deception and concealment. Well, I don't know, you'll have to explain to me a little bit that I'm wrong about myself and that I've hidden from you, because I've only got you a hand to make you a good fishing spokesman. And I think, in addition, if you think we have a competent advisor, we'll probably come to good agreement. Because it's true that we have a very competent advisor who has explained clearly, in addition, what the GALP consists of; so I think that since the first intervention and the second intervention you've already understood better how it goes. And the TripAdvisor I think he's a good reference, but not a reliable source of information to have a debate here. So we're starting a walk, and I think you'll see, over time, in the Commission 8th that this advisor is competent and fully responsive to the needs of the sector. Mrs Prado, we are also proud of the fishing sector and we are proud of the fisheries policies, but not of making politics with fishing, which is what you came to do here, more intensively, is fit, than the first time in the second intervention. Because, look, tell the advisor that he plans, orients, that he supports, that he organizes. It's just what you're doing! What you want to do is get directly into the fishing sector and organize yourself from within without letting them think and know what they want in the future. I therefore believe that yes, that you are again frivolizing and that — and I insist — what you have done now is political with fishing, because we have made it clear that these European GALP funds have brought and bring many opportunities for coastal villages and the fishing sector. So, I think I'm hoping for that efficiency that the Galician Union has, that efficiency that you have here, we can apply it to the central government. I say that to see if we can once come to some arrangement and have budgets. Because in execution you also put a plot here and I think you didn't give the exact and concrete data, but I don't have time to explain clearly what you said here, because you put yourself very vehemently with me and with the advisor. But we are very proud of fishing and, in addition, of the orientation that this Galician Union is giving you, because I think that, in addition, the data are positive. Mrs. Toja, you're talking about 2015 to 2017 being very positive data and fortunately having some policies; the same ones we have now! So in a situation and maybe a different social context, politics will still be the same. We're going to adapt very much to social reality to continue to increase and further enhance youth to fix population in coastal villages; to take advantage, in addition, fishing and our resources and be able to adapt for a long time so that we can live in this sector and, in addition, be proud of it. As the advisor said: to be an example in Europe. You put here the example of Estonia, and Estonia also began its wealth when it finally began with the liberalized trading regime. Yes, Mr Bará set the example of Estonia. [[Murmurs.]] Well, don't you put Estonia here, because they have Galicia and the fishing sector, which is an example for all of Europe. Mrs. Quinteiro, I think it is appropriate to read the rules. You come here to tell us how regulations are going; yes, the regulations need to be read and we need to know how it's going to talk about this. To give you an example: the Gulf Group of the South Plateau reaches eighty-five percent of the investments linked to the fisheries sector — to give you an example, because there are many—. And we're talking about, besides, forty-two percent of the fishing sector. [[Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u137	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u138	There's nothing to hide; no self-deception, no concealment. And yes, frivolizing and twitching, Mrs. Quinteiro, because the subject of the mud told you, and the counselor explained clearly and exactly what's going on. How can you come here to say that Junta is responsible for contaminating the rivers, when they have at this moment the peak of major sanitation for a long time and many years to this part? Mrs. Quinteiro, please! And with all the hydraulic infrastructures that are being built along the Welsh territory. That, indeed, seems to me of absolute frivolity. I want to finish by saying that the balance is positive and that there's always a lot to improve; there's always a lot to improve, and the counselor, in addition, here recognizes it. The balance is positive: eighty-four percent of the projects went forward; certification and quality of catches; one hundred and seven projects in the fisheries sector, one hundred and seven percent; and one thousand two hundred and eight full-time jobs — a very positive figure. In addition to Farnet, we also have Cetmar's report, which we have not referred to by the voices, but Mrs Quintana has also spoken. If you have to question everything, I think those conclusions clearly talk about the achievements and the things that need to be improved. So we read that report and we'll see how it works. Therefore, I support the professionals in the sector, I support the Council and this government as a channel for these GALP funds, which, we insist, are well-employed, always attract and bring wealth and improvements to the Greek community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Close of appearance, sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u140	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Casal, besides that you said you hadn't answered the questions and I think you did, because I took you to the source, and the source is Articles 58 to 64 of Regulation 508, and so you avoid thinking that I lie to you, what I can sum up about your intervention is that you said it's important to increase the projects of appreciation and online sale. Well, I'm going to tell you: the projects that have to do with the increase in the added value funded by the GALP have so far received EUR 4.8 million, and the online sale is funding the Sea Council with another line of intervention through the Galician Technology Modernization Agency, with an agreement that we have already signed since 2006; they have already started off the hinterland and Ferrol, and before the end of this year I think that thirty-five distances will already have the possibility of selling online. I mean, we all increase the added value of our products, you don't doubt what we're going to do. And we've improved in the last fifteen years: the year 2018 I've assumed an increase — which I have noted here — of 23.5 percent of the average value of our products. But still, it's a lot to get better. I appreciate you thinking about this thing and also referring here to the need for a brand; on that line I also think we've been working in the Council since 2009. Now I'm going to tell the technicians who carry the markets and all the commercial valuation that explore also the way you pointed here: that, perhaps, instead of calling it a yard, if we call it a horse equal increases value. Anyway, maybe it's a subject that we have to value, and I'll tell the technicians to do it. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Prado, I really don't want to replace people from the sea, it would be stupid for me to load the sector that I represent! I think the more people there are working at sea, the better. The GALP projects they don't come to are creating jobs at sea; the GALP projects come to diversify coastal areas. The possible creation of jobs in the sea is generated by other kinds of policies and other kinds of actions, which is what we are doing. Look: I know well that you and I disagree on the figures and disagree on the data. And what I can tell you is that since 2015 there have been six hundred twenty-two new jobs in the sea. Not many, of course not, and I want there to be more, of course, but for that we have to go to work all of them and give them conditions. Look, I appreciate the emphasis you make here, in this gallery, on defending the fishing sector; then that doesn't agree much with what you did when you were delegated to Pontevedra. Because, of course, from the year 2005 to 2009, five hundred thirty-eight ships were lost in Galicia, some sixty-five percent more than were lost from the year 2009 until now, and we have addressed a process of regularization of ships. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, I don't say it was her, but she says who destroys the job is me, so the same logic we apply to her. If in my age there are six hundred twenty-two jobs — that I say are few, but they are generated — what do they tell me when they were destroyed? [[Murmurs.]] Because more than a thousand jobs were destroyed per year in the four years of the Bipartite. That's the data, I'm not inventing anything, and I'm not finding anything out, but if I tell you... And we've approached a regularization process that has led many ships ahead. [[Applause]] But, look, just like this: do you remember when you criticized me for the issue of managing the distribution of fishing opportunities among the autonomous communities, that Galicia would disappear and I don't know how many more things? They've made themselves sweet new round boats these years, sweet new boats! I say, if that's to disappear... my idea of disappearing is that they've broken sweet, not that they've made sweet. Therefore, it has increased the value in these years and increased the downloads in these years. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, now it's said: no, it's that today's the newspaper -- that's the information line we have -- that we've had less downloads and less billing in these six months than in the previous year. Yes, of course, this was a good year from the width; our fleet, basically, has been working the width. Well, when I said it was important to have fishing opportunities here so that the fleet not only fished and gained value, but that the sales were made in Galicia and so gained more the autonomous community, you criticized me, and now you're going to give me the reason — I suppose at least now you'll give me the reason — because things look pretty clear. When our fleet works here, the economy moves in Galicia; when our fleet has to go to work in other autonomous communities, where economic activity moves in other autonomous communities. Finally, bet on value added: of course; bet on projects in the sector itself: of course, they are placed in their own participatory local development strategies. Mrs. Toja comes out again with news from a local fishing action group that was incompatible with the projects that were financed by the fisheries sector. But that same group president publicly said that everyone was able to decide when to define what their group's strategy was and that there are a lot of people -- some older patterns, of course -- who don't go to meetings and then complain. And, look, that's not it. They tell me what I want them to do: if I plan and organize, they tell me I manipulate the fishing sector; if I don't plan and I don't organize, they tell me I have to plan and organize. It's just that I don't care what you say; I'm going to continue working as I've always worked, thirty-two years working at the Fisheries Council, working with the industry, working with them, meeting them, and -- together -- planning their future. [[Applause]] Because we can't just look away from our nose; we have to look at the future, think about the future, plan for the future and organize for the future, but we have to do the sector itself, I can't do it myself. Of course I encourage you and I will of course help you; we are for that: to help you. You tell me there are people who won't ask for help because they have a lot of administrative paperwork. I'm the first to recognize him! And I'm the first one who's trying to defend him in Brussels. You accompany me, who have never helped me, saying that we have to ask for less administrative procedures! Of course you do! I'm the first one to say, "Hey, if to ask for a help of six hundred euros I have to introduce the same paper as for a help of three million euros, I don't deserve it." So let us see if we are all able to convince the European Union that it will allow us to simplify these administrative procedures, which will be a very beneficial formula for the whole sector. I think everyone will appreciate that in this we work together, that in favor of the participatory local development strategies we work together, that we do not despise those young people and those girls who have ideas, who have projects and are putting them into action. Mrs. Toja told me: It's just that she didn't answer how many posts were created in the sea. None, with this no line, because it's not for that; it's not to create positions on the sea directly. What if I can tell you is that if you're generating positions at the sea that, when there's a higher demand, there's also a greater possibility of extracting that product and marketing it and, therefore, there's a greater chance of having people working at sea. [[Mrs. Toja Suárez speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Quinteiro, I came here — as my companion Egerique said — in the previous plenary answer a question about the dredging of the river Lérez; they say all the arguments in the three minutes I had and more in the other three of the replica. Actually, I don't think it's any good for you to go to Galicia if you keep saying that our rivers are contaminated. No, don't say. [[Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo speaks words that are not perceived.]] I only tell you: the project of the dredging of the river Lérez was done in 2011; in 2014 they changed the standards of the levels of pollution that had to be determined and we had to start again with the project, and in 2017 we started the public exhibition of that project, which contemplated the possible deposition of the arids that had not been used to recover the marine banks of Campelo, Raxoi and Lourizán on the island of Tambo. The knife sector made claims, because there they had a razor bank and they thought that with that deposition of arids — that they were not contaminated — the bank would collapse. In the face of this difficulty, we resume the project to look for the point of dumping at the point of dumping authorized since 1998. The data from this possible contamination you say were exposed to the public in 2017 -- I haven't seen you presenting any allegations -- and the data say there's no contamination symptoms on any of the elements that need to be determined when assessing the contamination of these possible sediments. If you follow that line, there you go. I, of course, will only defend from my position that we work to improve the microbiological quality of the waters, that there is no chemical contamination in our waters, that we are the only autonomous community in the whole European Union that has a control centre that strictly applies the Community regulation that we have for the quality of the waters, that we do from here the analyses to other autonomous communities, and that we improve one-hundred and four percent of our production areas. That you keep saying that the laughs are contaminated is a weak favor that you're doing to the Greek fishing sector; there you and its consequences. The fishing sector knows and has the first-hand information; the data is already in the public exhibition and you, whenever you want, can look at them too. [[Applause]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u141	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the session until 6:00 p.m., four in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u142	The session is resumed with point 3 of the agenda, motions. G.P. motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the position of the Galician Parliament and the action to be taken by the Government of Greece on women's health care [[(G. G. P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mrs Eva Solola Fernández, through her spokesperson and the aber of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, she presented to the Bureau the following amendment to this motion.Re amended amendment.The amendment is required to replace the text of the resolution by the following:"The Parliament of Galicia urges the Galician Parliament of Galicia, through its spokesperson and through its spokes spokesperson, to comply with the Organic Organic Law 2/2010, of 3 March March, with sexual and reproductive health and reproductive health and voluntary interruption and voluntary use of pregnancy and to carry out the following measures:- Endow the Health Galego Health Branch Service of the means necessary to carry out in all provinces of Galicia and throughout its entirety the Galician Provinces of Galician Province of Galicia and throughout its entirety, to fulfil the Comprehensive Action Plan of Comprehensive Care of Women's Health Health Health Care.- To address the lack of maturiation, the lack of sexual health care and reproductive tasks necessary for compliance, including the entire, including the entire, the adoption, the entire initiative and the whole, the adoption of the adoption of the entire initiative and the entire initiative and the whole, including, and the whole, and the whole, the adoption of the adoption of the implementation of the implementation of the whole, the initiative and the whole, and the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the whole, and the initiative and the initiative of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the results of the results of the results of the implementation of the results of the results of the results of the results and the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the results of the results of the results of the results of the results of the results, and their, and their, and the results and the results and the implementation of the results of the implementation of the results of the results of the results of the results of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the results, and their full, and their full, and the implementation of the results of the implementation of]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u143	To formulate the motion you have the word Mr. Torrado Quintela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u144	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. The political positions of the parliamentary groups, of the political parties, necessarily define subsequent government actions. To all political parties, to all those whom we represent them, citizens naturally require us to maintain a political position, defend our political position, express it, be clear, and that, of course, will then determine the actions of government — if they are so — or the opposition actions with regard to each of the parties. Therefore, one work related to the other is undeniable. More management issues are identified, necessarily and necessarily, on ideological issues of political position. I say this because you always hear this about "you come here to make politics" as if it were something negative, when actually I think there's no other work to do here than to do politics, which is a necessary, essential and very important task. So our proposal today is essentially focused on the issue that has to do with the origin of Law 2/2010, of sexual and reproductive health and voluntary interruption of pregnancy, about the political position and government actions arising from that position. So he's got two of those. The first is basically the political position. Our group, undeniably, is proud and satisfied with that law, because we were the political group that promoted it in Congress in Spain and, in addition, through after the Government of Spain. So we agree, satisfied and proud of that law that the Government Zapatero has implemented and that it has managed to bring rights to women, that if they were answered, certainly, by a part of Spanish society, minority at that time, but with a logical representation, and that from our point of view today is much more surpassed. Actually, the denial of those rights today is less than it was, but it still exists. We therefore believe that, as it still exists and is given a lot of voice — far from our point of view — it is important to know the political position of the groups. And because, let's not deny it, there are political groups -- some of them represented in this House -- that systematically play a right hand and left hand game, or, to say better, right hand and much more right hand. They have a deliberately discreet and intentionally diffused political position about the law, but when they need a slightly more diverging statement, then the appropriates of the hand appear far to the right. Without anyone asking him, without needing to speak up and without being a subject that had provoked a great social debate at that time, in an election precaution of the general elections, Pablo Casado, still leader of the People's Party: "Married bets to break the law of abortion." We could be talking about the past century or about a debate even in 2010, but it was in February 2019, in this election campaign. It is clear that we need to know the political position of the groups, because there is a political group that with all legitimacy in its defence, yes, but at least is not ashamed to say it, it needs to clarify whether it defends or does not defend the current Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health and voluntary interruption of pregnancy. Why? Because citizens want to know what they need to touch when they meet political groups. Why? Because, as we said, political positions determine government actions. What actions of government determines this position, the position that Pablo Casado, still leader of the People's Party today, defends the Abortion Law, which is his bet? Define the government actions that then take the People's Party governments, for example, here in Galicia. In Galicia, the law is indicted. And in view of what we stated in the previous interpellation, the councillor appealed here that, if we were convinced that the law was breached, we were the judges. Of course, there's the problem that there's been one who's already been tried and won in the courts, because it's the ones who say they're in breach of the law. The law is voluntary in Galicia. I'm going to read you two sentences from a court ruling on a case where a woman had to travel to Madrid by her own means to go through a process of termination of the pregnancy she wanted, when it was clinically advisable, because in Galicia the deadlines were too long. I'm going to quote only two things that I think are clarifications. It speaks of the sentence of "unnecessary extension of pregnancy that shows a narrow failure of the system." I'm going to quote a second sentence: "Sergas has been disillusioned with the situation." This is a court ruling, we do not say it from the political groups, nor do we say it from some of the Members, or any person on the street — we think it is — says a court ruling: that the law is in breach of the law and that the Government of the European Union is in breach of the Law 2/2010, of voluntary interruption of pregnancy, of sexual and reproductive health. That is what we say, that the law is being violated and that it has to do with — and that is our interpretation — that the People's Party does not agree with the law, which the People's Party says. What we defend is that, even if you don't agree with a law, you must comply with it. Therefore, since it must be fulfilled, all means must be laid aside for it to be bought. And you in the People's Party -- of what we really want to know today -- have that problem: I demand everyone to comply with the laws -- well demanded -- but they do not agree to comply with those which morally they don't like. Because you have that problem, that moral dilemma, that there are themes where you know what you mean, but they say something else, or you know what you should say, but they tell something else, because they move in two complicated souls. There will be people in the People's Party, sure — and personally I am convinced that many — who defend that law, but probably cannot say because Mr. Casado says that it must be broken. And that's our intention: to really know what the position of the People's Party is. Whether you think that law should be breached or not. Because what we do know — the second part — is that it must be fulfilled and not done. And we believe that it is necessary to define the measures and resources necessary to comply with it, because that is what a government is required. So here goes our initiative, which is quite simple. They don't need to be angry, they just have to manifest a political position. We realize that sometimes some political positions are complicated to manifest, especially when you mean something and you don't say it because you can't. Or what's worse, what happens to PP, that all the things you want to say and if you take them back, you already say VOX, that for that they have, to say what you don't dare. It's true that they have an external VOX, which is Abascal, and they have some interiors, Aznar and the current married leader, if he leads the People's Party. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] So you have to decide whether they're with women's rights or with VOX. That's the position we want to know about the People's Party. And if they're not with VOX, we'll all be much happier; our safe group. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We prefer you to separate yourself from the ultra-right, because there are certain debates in this country like this, such as the right to voluntary interruption of women's pregnancy, put in doubt, which are being put into an inescapable moral doubt. And it is not possible to accept that things that have taken them a long time and a lot of effort to other generations, even, that it has not even been to my own personal level, if they are now in doubt, when there is really no social majority that defends it, in search of some particular question or interest, and that there are political groups that stand up to that issue and stand up for it. And the worst thing is that someone's voice to that ultra-right so they can defend them. There is a legal protection that has been used since the Council as a tool or as a wing to maintain, which is the famous objection of consciousness.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u145	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u146	I'm gonna finish it, president. Article 19.2 of the law states: "Health professionals directly involved in the voluntary interruption of pregnancy shall have the right to object to conscience, without the access and quality of care of the benefit being impaired." Mrs. Prado tells me it's a fundamental right. I wonder if it's not a right to the health of people, particularly women, particularly the right to exercise the voluntary interruption of pregnancy. That's a right too. And there's a problem, there's a problem: they can collide two rights, but the law makes it clear what must prevail. And he says, and I repeat, "Without the access and the quality of the benefit, they can be undermined," and that's the law. And when you don't agree with a law, you can argue, but you have to keep it. So we can't prioritize a right that isn't prioritized, which is that of conscientious objection, about a right that it is, which is the right of women to voluntarily interrupt their pregnancy. So if you want to discuss this, what we're discussing in depth is that women can't abort because someone doesn't like it. That's what we can't argue about. That's why we bring this law here and that's why we bring this debate. And that's why what happened happened, because there are some people who think the laws are all right only when they give them the reason. And that can't be admitted, particularly in some matters.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u147	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u148	And that debate is what we want to speak to today; to really know what the position of the People's Party is, which, of course, has become clear only by the intervention of the Socialist Group, at least, the part where you pay more attention to Abascal than to the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u149	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u150	Thank you, President. This motion, and the previous interpellation, on female health was specific about guaranteeing the right to abortion, and in that we will focus our intervention. And so we focus our amendment, showing at first our political position — as the proponent said — in favour of that law, 2/2010, of sexual and reproductive health, especially because it is a fair law, not because there is... there are laws that can be unfair, but above all because it is a fair law that guarantees women's rights. The current situation is that Welsh public health — as has already been exposed here during the interrogation — does not guarantee 100 percent the exercise of the right to voluntary interruptions of pregnancy. The World Health Organization itself recognizes that access to safe abortion and quality care services for women is essential for women, as well as quality care for women. And when 100 percent of the rights relating to voluntary termination of pregnancy cannot be exercised, then there is this legal breach to which this initiative refers. During the debate of the inquiry it has already been exposed, and it has been exposed on numerous occasions here: more guarantees are given the possibility, the right to object to the conscience of professionals, than women's rights to voluntary interruption of pregnancy. Unfortunately, the unfortunate situation of the woman who lost her womb as a result of this unjustified delay on the part of Sergas in that abortion that he had to perform and that he had to do in Madrid, did not make the administration reflect. Furthermore, the global process across the State continues to depend on private clinics, this is another debate that needs to be opened in depth. Free abortions are not guaranteed until fourteen weeks or therapeutics until twenty-two in the public system. And it would also be necessary to add, at that point 2 of the motion, the shortage of midwives and the need for increased personnel and resources in the family counselling centres to also have that good public network that shielded not only women's right to access these voluntary interruptions of pregnancy, but also quality care — as the WHO says — after these. It would also be necessary — this would also be a substantive debate — for proper treatment in all cases of fetal death, in which on many occasions these patients have to be with others who will give birth in the same room a healthy child or child. This would also be a substantive debate. In addition, it was also the subject of debate -- it's cold here, I'm getting away with it -- during the pharmacy law's presentation this question that also happens: that the right to conscientious objection is guaranteed more by providing treatments, medicines, for therapeutic abortion in the first seven weeks of management, that women's right to access all over the territory to these treatments, prescribed, on the other hand, by professionals. Our amendment, the amendment we tabled, is also a political declaration to emphasize the need to emphasize that defending that law, Law 2/2010, is also to allow free decision about their pregnancy to women aged sixteen without paternal consent. And we'd also like to move here the question that rights, if they don't defend themselves, if they're not constantly taking out the lecture like this motion does, they can get lost. In fact, in 2015 the People's Party intended to make a total involution into the right to abortion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u151	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u152	He couldn't do it, but there was a reversal in the case of women's rights of sixteen and seventeen years old in the ability to grant consent to VL. The law established in its drafting that one or one of the parents should be informed, unless the woman justified that she would cause a serious conflict. The reality is that the percentage of voluntary interruptions of pregnancy in under eighteen years is minimal, is less than ten percent, and besides, according to private clinic reports, nearly one-ninth percent of minors abort with their families. So this right shielded the most vulnerable cases. On the other hand, it's also curious how there are biomedical processes about which minors, whenever they have the ability to judge, can decide, but this ability of judgment was questioned in the interruption of pregnancy, and we think it's in that general framework that historically questioned women's right to decide about our body. So it's just a political declaration. We add to that need to make a political statement that this parliament defends women's right to voluntary termination of pregnancy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u153	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u154	Thank you, President. Well, of course the bulk of the People's Party is generally against women's sexual and reproductive rights, and we live it. We know there are people who have a certain sensitivity, but we live here in the past legislation and we have had very bitter debates about the right to abortion. And unfortunately, with this money order — if it fits more to the right of the People's Party — we're living it again. And it's not just Mr. Maroto's words, is that a few days ago — and it's not even so related to sexual and reproductive rights — we had to be listening to Mr. Maroto talking about the false allegations of women once again!, with which he's falling out, with all the problems related to all the girls who are being raped, and, of course, with all the public trials that are being suffered and of those who are familiar with all the lordships in this chamber. And we also had to listen to some rough words from the Andalusian Health Counsellor, saying, "The easy thing is to get there and the chupeton." That's the respect you have for women's sexual and reproductive rights, of course. That's why we understand that it is not necessary to make it easy to whiten an image with an initiative that proposes a point where it is easier to vote in favour of organic law 2/2010. I'd miss more! What are you going to do, vote in favor? Probably. We understand that there must be political commitments and that the law, of course, is not being complied with in our country. We women are more than abortion and we are more than the Bikini line. And we want — that is how we know in research the elements related to sexual health — that include other aspects in this framework, so we propose this motion. We understand that we must provide the Galego Health Service with the necessary means to carry out the comprehensive care plan for women's health in all provinces, because unfortunately, despite the fact that the different opposition groups have brought this issue to debate, despite the fact that it is quite clear that there is no means in primary care nor in hospital to meet this plan, this is not being remedied, and it is probably much more important than giving a political debate on the support of the People's Party to VOX. Unfortunately, the People's Party is failing to meet the necessary means of empowering women's rights. We need to solve the lack of midwives in the Galego Health Service. We have a problem that has already been debated in some way: Galicia is the autonomous community with fewer masters per inhabitant. It's true, obviously, that matrons and mammoths care for all sexual and reproductive health and not just pregnancy, but those who raise their voice crying for a standard of demography and for the need for women to have children in our country, they don't even even put the health personnel to care for them. In the case of Ourense province, it is absolutely dramatic: 0.5 per 10,000 inhabitants, an absolute failure to comply with the minimum standards proposed by the World Health Organization. We also want the initiative adopted in this Parliament — one, two and three times — on the treatment of endometriosis — to be carried out immediately. We're still waiting, women are still waiting for their rights to be met: that they guarantee the voluntary interruption of pregnancy in the public health network. And here I'm going to stop because the law of 2010 doesn't guarantee it, and these pus come these muds. At that time, my comrades in 2010 also defended the need for this rule to guarantee that the voluntary interruption of pregnancy would take place in public health.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u155	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u156	It has not been guaranteed, and what happens today is that this is used by the Government to derive even out of the autonomous community, with the serious consequences that this has for women. We want a proper structure to be maintained in the family orientation centers. And resources, because sexual and reproductive health is important, and there is a need to equip professionals to also provide health education. That's a key element in people's training, but also in other professionals. A study is conducted for the financing of prophylactics, such as condoms and latex quadrants. It's also important for compliance with the part that has to do with prevention in Law 2/2010. We've already proposed it even in the previous legislation. At that time, with Alternative Left Galeg, and in 2016 we proposed this and it was voted against; not even to do the study! We were not talking about how much funding, but at least how much to do a study and what are introduced in the different educational stages of curricular education in relation to affective-sexual education. Article 21 of the Law LGTBI and Article 7 of the Law 2/2010 are not being complied with. I'm done. The reality is that the subject is quite broad, and we don't want the image of someone who doesn't normally put the means to comply with the rights that all women have in health matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u158	Fifteen days ago, in the appeal of Mr. Torrado to the Health Counsellor, he himself recalled a judgment to which he also referred in his intervention today, that case of the Navy. I was alarming myself to think of the long time that passed, unfortunately, of that case and the little that changed. We must remember that case and we must record it — we think — with lead in our mind, because we must remember that in this country, after Mr Gallardón's attempt to legally counter-reform that the German feminism stopped on the streets along with other feminists from the rest of the state, many local platforms denounced different situations that were revealing the mismanagement of abortions in Greek public health. There were numerous complaints, especially in some cases of the Coruña and Vigo because they were the most active platforms, and we had witnesses, for example, of women who denounced how they were obliged to expel the fetus in the bathroom of the hospital room itself, alone!, without medical or psychological assistance, violating all protocols not only within the scope of our legislation, but also internationally. Others denounced how, precisely — especially for the issue of elesenesic abortions — attention was denied in the public health of Galicia. Just within the framework of that mobilization of the counter-reform of the Abortion Law, which we were able to stop, we knew that sentence that many of us thought was called to mark one before and one after, because the truth is it wasn't at all. What it does is to show that this case was not an isolated fact, it was not an accident, but it was a demonstration of how the patriarchate is absolutely installed in the health system. Even for cases like this, it wasn't a free choice, it was a health recommendation, it was a vital necessity for that woman, it wasn't even a free choice situation, and that didn't make the system more comprehensive. Imagine what a woman is going on in this country when what she's doing is going to her health care center because what she wants is, freely, to interrupt that pregnancy. Mr. Torrado made mention of one of the lines of that sentence, and I will mention others because I think it's important to remember that: it wasn't an isolated accident. And what's worse, then we don't do it. The judgment pointed, for example, to neglect throughout the entire process, from delay to authorization of abortion — we remember that it was in the week twenty-two — to the woman's own derivation to Madrid. It literally points out that "the reported negligence exceeds the standards of the tolerant, irreproachable, due to slowness, lack of reflections, ignorance, inoperation, ineffective fearlessness and lack of sensitivity." So, we heard the president of Galician Union, with crocodile tears, saying that the protocols would be reviewed, that they would get better and so on. And the question is, So long after, did this mark a first and a later in our public health? yes or no? The reality is that — with the information we have — it has not marked it, that is what we have to regret. Because, nowadays, abortions in our health are still torture, both for women who decide to do it freely and for those who have to do it for a matter of health and risk of their own life. So we think that, in fact, it has not been corrected, nor in the updating of many of the questions of the proceedings...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u159	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u160	...not to avoid miscarriage in Madrid either. We know that, and we recognize it from Galicia's own board in the written answers when we ask about it. The bottom line is that it's not disability, it's not lack of resources, it's a position of lack of political will of the People's Party. Because the People's Party of Galicia tends to be so, more committed in its claims, but the fact is that you think of this the same as your partners, that your members of the Catholic Church, who tell us questions like that of Cardinal Batista, that rape of a girl is less serious than abortion; like your VOX partners; like Mr. Ortega Smith, who says that women have the right to eat more or less, to cut themselves off by the hair or nails, but not to end the life of the child. [[Protests.]] That's what your colleague Ortega Smith says. Or Ana Vega, from VOX Valencia, who says, "A raped woman does not have to abort."[...] He has every right to live the fruit of that unconsensual relationship. That's what your VOX colleagues say, they're going to scream at them! Or Andrea Levy, who gave us not so many months ago with that, "he's worried about abortion being a right." [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the women of this country are concerned that they want to take us to the cave, but they haven't managed it with Gallardón and they won't get it now with their VOX colleagues and with my colleague Marado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Thank you. Your time is up. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez-Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. As a woman, I'm really offended that they don't defend women's rights, but if they make a political use of them as we've just heard, if they talk about colleagues, if they talk about them... [[Applause]] Today we are dealing with a very serious, very serious issue, the theme of the Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health, which is the result of the interpellation made on June 26. A law that is fulfilled in Galicia, as we suppose in the rest of the autonomous communities, because the laws are about to comply with the governments. Governments must comply with the laws. The law you refer to sets the objects of public policies in the field of sexual and reproductive health with measures both in the field of health and in the field of education, and develops the national strategy of sexual and reproductive health, which serves as a tool for the collaboration of the different public administrations, and Galicia, as an autonomous community, participates in this strategy. All that has been done, done and will be done in Galicia has already been told by the Health Counsellor in the inquiry of the whole past, so I will not repeat here what has been said; it is in the Journal of Sessions. You guys are taking a little trip today, aren't you? Asking if we support the law unequivocally. We, Mr. Torrado, unequivocally support the Greek women, unequivocally support the woman's freedom and unequivocally support the women who choose to be mothers or not. We have complied with Law 2/2010, but I wonder: Do you unequivocally support Red Mother? [[Applause]] Do you unequivocally support women who want to have children? We always support women, in everything they decide, without exception. And I say it really produces a feeling of sadness for women that is intended to divide into a subject of consciousness that is not proper for any ideology. [[Applause]] And both as a woman and as a member of the Galician PP say: the law is commensurate. [[Murmurs.]] You speak of a unfortunate case that happened in the year 2012 - the judgment is of 2016 -, a mistake that we, of course - believe me - deeply regret. And we are aware that the mother's psychological situation can be very sensitive in those cases. And if things have been done to prevent this from happening again. It has been established as a reference centre for VTIs for more than twenty-two weeks at the EOXI Cunqueiro Hospital in Vigo, and since January 2019 also the Ourense Hospital Complex has been authorized as the second reference center in the Autonomous Community of Galicia for VTEs for more than twenty-two weeks. You speak — and I don't think it is serious — of Married and Until Gallardón, and we could also talk — that I will not do so — of Ramon Jáuregui, of Alfonso Guerra... is in the hemerothecas. And I'm not going to do it precisely with regard to all those women who have to make the decision -- terrible for them -- to submit to an IVE.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u163	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u164	The Group of the European People's Party is fully aware that many sensibilities must be respected in Galician society. Many, ladies and gentlemen, not only those of the People's Party or the Socialist Party, there are different sensibilities within each party. Not all women and men of the People's Party think the same thing, as not all women and men of the Socialist Party think the same thing. You speak of the fact that EVIs are not made on the public network, and article 13 makes it clear: "that it takes place in public health centres the accredited private," and meets in Galicia absolutely. But there is also something that is important and we must not forget, which is that the woman can choose where to stop precisely. That seems very important to us, women's freedom to make use of this right, choosing where they want to do it. We're not going into it, we're democratic and we like rights to be exercised individually and not by imposition. In recent years the data given to us by the Health Commission — which you are there — the Director General for Health Care speak of the increase in the interruptions of pregnancy in the public system.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u165	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u166	In more than twenty-two weeks, more than ninety per cent; and in interruptions of less than fourteen weeks — which are ninety per cent — more than fifty per cent. From the People's Group there is no doubt that we are greatly concerned about the attention given to women in case they have to submit to an IVE, because we know that this is a situation that any woman would avoid if she could. That's why, and with regard to the woman, ladies, we don't want to generate a conflict where there is no conflict. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. Motion author group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u168	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank - very sincerely - the views and the support of the first three groups that spoke here, which were expressed today. There were some very interesting comments that I think would be worthy of deepening. And, of course, about the amendments — to say it's already inlet — we think it would be interesting, really, to sink. Some of the things that have been raised could be very minimally killed, and there are many other concrete actions that would, of course, improve even the law, because today we would probably improve law and enrich ourselves, experience also allows us to go a little further. From our position, the intention of this initiative was to resolve the fundamental element, which we believe is also clear that it is not resolved, or, worryingly, that it is in the sense that we do not like it. Therefore, by sharing the amendments, we prefer to vote on the initiative as it is, not because we do not share it — some of them are even collected as in the law — but because we believe that other initiatives could also be a reason to go further. Why do we believe that the important thing was the fundamental question? Political use of women's rights. If there's anyone who's used women's rights with political use, it's who starts an election campaign saying that abortion is doing the same thing as Neanderthals. That's politically using women's rights. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] But I can read it again, I can read Gallardón again, saying, "Free motherhood makes women authentically women." Is using a woman's right as a political use to say that if you want to repeal the Abortion Act -- which is a legitimate political position, we don't share it, but it's legitimate --? Is it not political use of women's rights? Let's see if we're going to be here talking about pure people and the rest of us want to discuss rights. If there is anyone who makes this debate today — today! — very alive is the People's Party, for two things. First, because you don't like this law—and you don't dare to say it openly—and secondly, because it gives cover to the ultra-rights who want to cancel this law. By the way, some of them are out, many still inside. And, yes, I'm sure in the People's Party, Mrs. Rodríguez, there are many very sensitive people. Sure. And we want those people to say it and win that battle. We would never be more happy that this battle had won within the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u169	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u170	Because we also need the right to advance social rights, also the right. And that's why we believe that this party, the People's Party, which today has a problem with this one — as you have with others — will be late, but we still want it to come. That's why these initiatives, so that at once... it wouldn't be whitening, it would be to help make a better society, so we want them to be in favour. The unfortunate thing is that you want to say here that some people are still in favor, but ultimately, at the time of truth, judicial judgments say they don't comply, and in voting they're not in favour of women's rights.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u171	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Next motion. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María de la Concepción Burgo López, on the opening by the Government of Galicia of a dialogue table with representatives of the stage arts sector to address and solve the problems of the Galego Dramatic Center
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u172	There is an amendment by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and by the People's Parliamentary Group. [[G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mrs Olalla Rodil Fernández, through her spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this motion.Additional amendment.It must be added to the resolution since: "In this dialogue table, at least the following topics shall be dealt with" the following text:"- Compliance with the Second Transitional Provisions of Law 4/2008 on the creation of the AgadIC relating to the legal structure of the CDG and other production units ascribed to the Agency, as well as the elaboration of a Statute of the Galego Dramatic Center."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[(G. P. Popular de Galicia, at the initiative of María Isabel Novo Farina, through her spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this motion.Amendment.The text of the resolution should be replaced by the following:"The Parliament urges the Council of Galicia to restart the dialogue table, created in 2017, reconvene the main entities in the sphere of performing arts (actors and actresses, stage companies, dramaturists, programmers, etc.) to address the current situation of the Galego Drama Centre (CDG), and the role of a public theatrical production company in the context of the 21st century Galicia, taking into account the opinions and appraisals of the entire Galician cultural sector.From the end of this work table, decisions will be addressed on the priorityization of the distribution of budgetable resources between the different spheres of the arts and the consequences of the 2015th century, the lists of the local administrations, the commitments of the business agendas, the schedules, the schedule of the implementation of the zonation of the program, the zonation of the business.]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u173	To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. As you know, we present this motion as a result of the question made in the past to Mr. Culture Counsellor about the situation in which the Galego Dramatic Center, Galicia's most important production center, is located. The truth is, we feel a lot that after that interpellation we found no sign of a solution or, indeed, no hope of a solution. The Counsellor has limited himself — as they always do, on the other hand — to try to convince us that we are in this happy Arcadia where there are no problems. The truth is, that's not true. This government in the wake of culture — as is happening in the wake of many other sectors — is plunged into improvisation and abandonment, has no new policy, has no solutions, and simply does one thing: trying to ensure that there are no problems with sectors and continually weaken cultural sectors as well. It's trying to "do what's done" and then don't do anything. This is not what we say without more, the opposition, the Socialist Party, but many different sectors are saying it. In this case — which I am responsible for — the culture sector, but we have just seen — in all the plenarys we are seeing — as other fundamental sectors as health are constantly at war against government policies; and the same is true of culture, and in this case with the Galego Dramatic Center. What we're doing right now here is transmitting to this camera the worries and problems manifested by the theatre professionals. It's not just our ideas or our politics — that too — but at this moment we are fulfilling our obligation as public representatives to bring here the voice of professionals and, in this case — as I said — of the Galego Drama Center, an institution created over thirty-five years ago to respond to the needs of the sector and that was called to be — and for a time it was — the great promoter of theatre in the Greek language, because it is a great instrument of normalization of our language. I was called on to put in place theatrical projects that are not possible by private companies, that is, companies in our country in general small, with little capital, that can't make great productions, productions in large format, and it's the Galego Dramatic Center that was called to do that. His situation right now, after ten years of the People's Party's government, is extremely weak, and he's not in a position to fulfil his role as an impetus to the theatre or to create new audiences. It's a policy that said it was the weakening of the sectors, which is being carried out in other facets, and in this case also in global stage arts. The counsellor in the past interpellation, instead of speaking of the Galician Center, spoke of the scenic arts and praised his politics, but nothing further from reality, because the Drama Center is not really present in active policies. So your lordships can come up with an idea of what I'm saying, the Government has just presented the Strategy of Greek Culture 2021. One would think that the Galego Drama Center and the Galego choreographic center would have to be in this culture strategy, since it's a 2021 strategy, but I can assure you that it's not — not even if it is — the Galego Dramatic Center. And of the scenic arts, I'm going to read to them textually what the 2021 Strategy says about this government. The objective of an entire strategy of culture is to strengthen the stage arts sector, and how?, and it says textually: "The stage arts sector is one of the most possibilities of evolution today, but it presents certain difficulties, which are intended to be cut short by measures and experiences that analyze the feasibility to meet the challenges of the twenty-first century, with particular emphasis on education and collaboration with other sectors of culture." Do you understand that this is a strategy? Do you understand anything? I mean, I'm sorry. Because here what is understood is the following, that theatre, an art that was born hundreds of years before our era and that survived thousands of years, it seems that now we have to rethink whether it will survive the 21st century. If that's the question, I'm telling you, yes, that after so many centuries it will survive the challenges of the 21st century. That was the question? Was that the strategy? Does theatre only have value in education? Is it only good to collaborate with other sectors of culture? It's impossible not even to understand what they say about it. The same Council of Culture Galega reported a few years ago in a report on the unfortunate situation of performing arts in our country. He was textually saying that there was a lack of a policy geared towards the development of theatre as a strategic sector. And he was also talking about the need to develop a strategic plan of the performing arts; a strategic plan that I remember is promising the People's Party and the Government since 2009. We're in 2019 and the truth is there's not much hope of having a strategic plan; strategic plan that they're asking for the Galician Council of Culture and the stage arts sector, but there won't be. In this way, and given the increasingly limited situation of maturation and impoverishment of the Galego Dramatic Center, we bring here a motion, and I want to tell you — especially the People's Party, who certainly understand it perfectly — that our politics is not here. If you read it, we're not saying that we have to do this or we have to do the other or we have to... here is just something that I think is essential and that is the obligation of anyone dedicated to political management: to listen to the sector and professionals, and to set up a dialogue table already to deal with a series of issues that are the serious problems that the Galego Drama Center now has, many of them created by the policy of the People's Party itself. Therefore, it is to create a dialogue table to deal, on the one hand, with the legal structure of the Galego Dramatic Center; a possibility of a new legal structure that is opened in the Agadic creation law, in the second transitional provision, which marks the provisionality of the subscription of production centers to Agadic. And it opens up the possibility of creating a specific entity. In this sense, we have to say that of course we will accept the amendment of the BNG, which makes the situation clearer. Related to this possibility of creating a legal entity or a new legal structure, there is the serious problem of recruiting casts for the Dramatic Center, which has been done since 2016 following a legislative framework for public procurement and public service that is not adaptable to the reality of artistic creation. We do not say, of course, the sector does not say that the law is not complied with; the need is to create a different legislative framework. A legislative framework that is, by the way, the Ministry is trying to reach out to the other communities, which were called to a meeting in December, to which was also called the Council of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u175	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u176	But look where: neither in Agadic nor in a whole council office was a single person willing to go to that meeting with the ministry; a meeting that was not for the sole and exclusive party reasons, which is how the People's Party understands political management. Well, it's necessary to talk about this, as -- and I only read it because I don't have time to explain it, but I explained in the interpellation all the problems of the Drama Center -- to analyze the necessary budget; the relationships with the companies; the call of the Advisory Council, an advisory council that was only convened once, in 2012, and disappeared, never again, because the advice to the People's Party as they don't like it. A new distribution policy; an increase in own productions, because we cannot be with a production center with a single work that, at most, has ten actors, when the large format was really the obligation of the productions of the Drama Center, and the cast selection processes. And as it's just talking to the sector and getting to all the agreements you can...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u177	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u178	...I think it can be passed throughout the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u179	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u180	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Mrs. Burgo spoke of this strategic plan of the performing arts that the People's Party has promised since 2009 and that she has been failing since she entered the door of San Caetano, because it was made since 2008. It's still hanging on the net. [[Applause]] A strategic plan of the scenic arts that was made after many hours of work from the stage arts sector itself and from the hand of the Galician Nationalist Block in the Council of Culture; a strategic plan that had an integral vision of what the scenic arts suppose and represent as a fundamental part of this country's culture for the human, social and also economic development of our country. He put himself in a drawer and had been failing since 2008 for pure political sectarianism, like so many other things that had been done by that government — that everyone knows he had seven heads, horns and tails — that he was the Bipartisan Government. By pure political sectarianism! And that as we see, really, they didn't even have the decency to recover for that 2021 culture strategy, in which the CDG or the Coreographic Center, the CGAI or any other cultural institution in this country is not actually mentioned. We don't know very well what this strategy was aimed at. We, from the BNG, are going to support today's proposal by the Socialist Party, which we are presenting with an amendment to which I shall now speak. We believe, moreover, that since the BNG — we have transferred it to the Committee on Culture to the Director of Agadic himself — that it is time to open this process of reflection that the stage arts sector has been demanding for years to the Galician Board, and that in October the resignation, departure, of the current director, and that Agadic has been obliged to initiate a public contest for the election, for the selection, of that new direction. As we have already said — I insist — from the BNG, this competition we understand that it must contemplate the selection criteria of the person who is going to lead the Galego Drama Centre - they must take very much into account - that necessary refoundation which, I insist, is demanding the stage arts sector and that it has as its central element this own legal structure, which guarantees proper functioning, and, above all, the fulfilment of the objective for which the Galego Drama Centre was created, which is the national theatre of this country, is the badge ship of the scenic arts. And, in that sense, we collect in our amendment — as Mrs Burgo already referred to — what she literally says to the Agadic Creation Act of the Year 2008 and that second transitional provision, which provides for the creation of a specific entity for the management and coordination of cultural production centres of public ownership: the Galego Dramatic Center, of course; but also the Galego Coreographic Center, which has been sleeping the sleep of the just another decade as well. He's not dead, he's cryogenicized, because I suppose making him disappear was excessive for the People's Party, but without any budget, without any activity or programming, things are no use at all. We understand — and so we also collect it in the amendment — that, together with this process of reflection, that refoundation and the provision of a specific legal structure for the Dramatic Center, the Board of Galicia should promote a status for the Galego Dramatic Center as the National Theatre of Galicia which is, as the ship indicates — I insist very much — of the performing arts...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u181	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u182	...of our country. And they should skip the alarms at the Council of Culture at the moment that in every sector of the performing arts in our country they don't even feel like the Galego Drama Center. There should be a reflection process on the part of any government that wanted to make politics. We understand that this statute has to pick up a part of the issues, of the issues, which are proposed to address in that dialogue table, which are the selection processes of management; the functioning of the Advisory Council itself, which cannot be like the Guadiana, which appears and disappears according to the will of each direction; the development of a master plan that covers the artistic project and its financial framework; the provision of a stable budget so that the institution can function properly; or, for example, annual action plans, by simply putting some elements on the table. We expect our amendment to be accepted. I insist that we support the initiative. We believe that it is time to listen to the sector, which has been talking too long without being heard by the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u183	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Novo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u184	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Mrs. Rodil, they talked about the strategic plan. The great strategic plan of the BNG was to suppress the Ballet Galego Rey de Viana for pure sectarianism. [[Applause]] Today the Socialist Party brings a motion in relation to the Galego Drama Center to launch a dialogue table with the aim of dealing with problems and finding solutions. By the way, a table had already been set up in 2017, with an agreement on recruitment until the dialogue was abandoned. And it was the counsellor who expressed himself in the full past who kept the disposition to resume it without any problem. More importantly, Mrs. Burgo, you spoke of a meeting that was held in Madrid. I'd like to ask you what progress you've made after that meeting in these seven months. Nothing. What's going on? Nothing. But, on the other hand, it has already been discussed in different debates about the politics of the German Government in relation to the performing arts. Contextually, the Galego Dramatic Center is part of Agadic's structure and focuses its activity on production, training and theatrical creation. His course began in 1984, with the aim of contributing to the normalization and regularization of the Welsh theatrical activity. Thirty-five years working where many things have changed in the field of the stage sector. Thus, cultural and theatrical activity has evolved: more cultural equipment and supply, as a wide offer with private companies that are able to represent any assembly. But what do we mean? Do we have to adapt to new times? Yes. Of course he will survive, Mrs Burgo, but we must face new challenges and social changes, without forgetting, of course, the importance of the role of the Galego Drama Centre, which has contributed and will contribute to the stage sector and will certainly continue to do so. At this, Mrs Burgo, I think we'll all agree. You're also talking about providing the center of budgets, autonomy and an own legal structure. It's true that there have been difficult years, and you know why they went. They know how the economic legacy was taken and the measures that had to be adapted, but they also know that they have their own budget, which both question and so many other issues. They know that in recent years the board budget devoted to the performing arts has grown, overcoming the pre-crisis investment. We see support with facts and data. He grew up, overcoming the pre-crisis investment. Yes. On the other hand, you have the eternal dilemma: greater autonomy, greater independence, greater control of Agadic or the Dramatic Center. You have to clarify yourself, because the director has full powers to decide about production, about co-production, about distribution, about activity... and in the field of recruitment, what is done is to comply with the law. It's a public company that has to secure recruitment conditions within legality. I suppose we'll agree on this, too. We agree to seek solutions, but within the legality, to comply with the legality that you so often advocate, but sometimes not in others. And we agree to always comply with the law. In its various interventions it speaks of abandonment, maturation, lack of political will, planning to push the centre, lack of listening to the sector and no dialogue. I repeat once again that the counselor himself expressed his...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u185	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u186	...ready to resume the dialogue table. We advocate how hand-to-hand strategy with the sector to ensure that the Greeks and the Greeks have a cultural offer as rich as possible, with the development and progress of the scenic arts, seeking an agreement and consensus that guarantees the future of the Galego Dramatic Center. We agree to find solutions. In this sense, we present an amendment to restart the dialogue table that was set up in 2017, in which all the agents involved are represented, to deal with the current situation of the Galego Drama Centre in the context of Galicia of the 21st century, taking into account, of course, the cultural sector, its opinions and assessments, and always, always contextualized, fulfilling the legality and also taking into account the resources available to us. I always meet the law and count on the resources we have. So, we hope you will accept our proposal, this amendment, for a future of the Galego Dramatic Center. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u187	Thank you, Mrs. New. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u188	Now that the PP is aiming at this so Soviet of incorporating abandoned strips into the Land Bank, to see if it is also aiming at defending the scenic arts of this country. Because the reality is that the Galego Dramatic Center, since 2009, has been mistreated by the Administration, beginning with that budget cut -- it seems they had a rifraffe -- and the work capacity that is manifest, as reported by the Galician Actors' Association itself, who even speak of the paralysis that the institution had experienced since Manuel Guede's resignation in 2015 until Fefa Noia's incorporation into January 2016. Calling him hard years is a little euphemistic. It also denounces this association that the centre continued on a line of minimal activity, programming only one production per year with a maximum of ten performers on the scene — it has been exposed here. The situation has reached such a point that it is essential to ask for something as simple as dialogue, which is what this motion calls for. Dialogue which, by the way, should have been driven by the Union itself and not come to the back of the sector's logical claims, which, by the way, have already begun a long time ago. Let us remember that in 2018 all parliamentary groups were transferred this situation to them by the Association of Actors and Actresses. I don't know if they finally met with the People's Party, but the situation has been moved, the situation has been communicated, and it's simply offered that dialogue not only a parliamentary initiative, but that it comes out in the media and puts that stain of lack of real dialogue in that fantastic Galicia that they often paint. Did it work? What is the overall result and the bottom of the question for us? It's just that during these years, the Galego Drama Center does not meet the goals for which it was created, which is to promote and distribute the Welsh dramaturgy and create a significant number of jobs in the sector. Not one thing or the other if it keeps paralyzing. As I said, the Association of Actors and Actresses of Galicia has transferred to all groups the need for greater recruitment of interpreters and the difficulties they had: poor own production — this also has to do with budgeting — the decrease in distribution rotations, the controversy about listing selection processes — which has already been exposed here — and also the lack of dialogue with the Administration, something as simple as dialogue. That is why we are going to support this motion, because it seems essential to us, and it is also essential that we accept the amendment of the BNG. We think it is essential that we talk about this legal structure of the CDG itself, with the need that it is nothing revolutionary that is proposed, that is to develop the law itself of creating a specific entity. They are temporarily ascribed to the agency, to Agadic — we are talking about the law by which the Galician Agency of Cultural Industries is created — the production, archiving, information and cultural research centres dependent on Igaem at that time, while a specific entity is not created for the management and coordination of the cultural production centres of public ownership. Dialogue and compliance with the law, nothing else is required. We believe that this motion should be adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u189	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u190	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Genaro Marines del Valle: Lorca said a people without theatre was a dead people, which is the same thing as saying that a people with theatre is a living people. We agreed. We have a rich heritage, we don't have an agrarian culture. We weren't born yesterday, we were past. We are heirs of the Brotherhood of Speech and of Us, and we have a vicious present with problems and a future, of course, that does not pass through the death of our national and institutional theatre. There are three problems: destruction, precariousness and instability. They have a solution. It is necessary and healthy to have a solid national theater, so it is in almost every country in the world: Asia, Europe and even in Africa; and, of course, also in America. The national centre or the institutional centre performs many functions, two fundamentals: one, making a country; and two, cohesion communities. It's a mirror where we can contemplate and understand ourselves. We need this national theater. When is professional theatre born in Galicia? The date is in 1978, with Laudamuco, Lord of Ningures, of the magnificent Roberto Vidal Bolaño, who was also academic in this country. From resistance to affirmation, the CDG passed — let's say — five steps. The first one with Eduardo Alonso at the front, who was a pioneer, and it was really who designed a super-objective: a theater for a country, and from there it was developing. At that first stage they also passed through the direction Ernesto Chao, Pucier, Blanco Gil, Dorotea Bárcena — in functions, they did not become director. A second stage, fourteen years old, of Manolo Guede. Manolo Guede has been perpetuated a lot, but it has created three axes: Welsh, contemporary, and universal classic dramatism, which is still changing forms, trends and lines today. I was at the third stage, briefly, but I think it was a fruitful step. We must emphasize the step, at this third stage, of Cristina Domínguez. Cristina Domínguez touched on the change between Igaem and Agadic — as a female, please, we're talking about an agency. At that very moment in 2008 — I am accelerated, but because I am in love, I am not angry, it is a matter which moves me and which, of course, touches me — precisely when is the second transitional provision, which is mentioned in particular, because it is said that it is temporary. The production centre is provisional until a specific entity is made for its management. Please listen to this! provisional!, eleven years of provisionality! Is that what it is? At the fourth stage, Manolo Guede. On the farm, Fefa Girl... we all know what happened because it was exposed very clearly. Yes, the times change, Mrs. New Flourina, of the PP. You know, it's a mistake, crop clipping was sixty-five percent! In the last four years, a little spark has been recovered. The budget of the Drama Centre is not enough at €5,500,000, any French municipality has more and any of the centers in Catalonia is 13 million — of course, we're not going to compare — but they have seven million inhabitants and we're two and a half.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u191	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u192	Yes. The coordinator, who is not a director — there is a breakdown of the job; in almost all communities that have a dramatic center, which are the majority, has a high rank — does not have that autonomy that entitles him, does not reach thirty thousand euros a year. The councilman talked about a lot of things. Among other things, he said very hard things that hurt and bow. He said the opposition had an inquisitional tendency. The Inquisition! Where did it be seen that the maximum representative of the Culture Council thus insults not only all of his lordships, including that bench, but all of his profession? There are no commercial companies in our country; everything is public theater. They have to discriminate between what is institutional theater and what are companies, which are like small businesses in precarious, are living a desolate landscape! The problem is complex; it can be solved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u193	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u194	He also spoke the councilman of the Gordian knot. I'll say four things: you can, not with bribed subsidies, there are no such co-productions, and there must be competitive competition. No one talks about interference, no democratic society can tolerate political interference in the 21st century, the theatre is about to become a country. Politics is done here, I'm not a politician, but I'm a theatre professional.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u195	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u196	Well, we'll keep it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u197	Thank you. Motion author group, Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u198	Mr. President. First, I would like to thank all the opposition groups for their support and also for their words. Above all, Mrs. Cuña, I know that you, logically, live and know this problem very well. Mrs. Novo, what you are saying is that there is no political will to solve the problems of the Dramatic Centre and, of course, no political will to dialogue with the sector, which is what is being asked for. Of course! [[Applause]] Because there's no will. We can't talk about restarting a table that has nothing to do with what's being asked here. That 2017 table was to talk about the cast recruitment, and when you tried to talk about something else, you wouldn't let the industry talk. A table, in addition, which was convened by the director of the Drama Center. What is needed is a table called by the highest instances and with decision-making power, of course. As for the budget, check the data, Mrs. New, because it was necessary to lower the budget... I don't know what you consider to be down, if it's little or it's the need to go down about seventy-five percent, because about seventy-five percent was what came down the budget of the performing arts. Now it's gone up a little bit and we're still on a cut of 50 percent, 50 percent! What policy can be made? How can it be said that there is a political will to drive a sector with a cut of 50 percent? Please don't take us for fools, at least. [[Applause]] I also tell you, Mrs Novo, that all this is claims from the sector itself, from the professional sectors. [[Applause]] And there would still be... I don't add it because I don't have time. First of all, of course, we approve and accept the amendment of the BNG. Yours, Mrs. New, we can't accept it because I don't know if you've noticed that it's all the opposite of what we've asked for and there's nothing to be asked for.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u199	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u200	Not even looking at a new juridical entity, nothing like it. We're just asking for dialogue, but of course, Mrs. New, of course, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, which you don't want to talk about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u201	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. G.P. motion. de In Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of equal treatment and non-discrimination of lesbians, gays, transsexuals, bisexuals and intersexuals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u202	There are amendments to the Joint Parliamentary Group, the Galician Nationalist Block, and the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u203	To formulate the motion, Mrs. Quinteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u204	Thank you, President. We are debating today about the rights of LGTBI people and we are doing so justly with the debates that have taken place in this very chamber and also the debates that are taking place in society as a whole, because, fortunately or unfortunately, the political positions of all groups are increasingly being clarified. We understand that today's motion raises very basic, very minimal questions; in fact, many of the points should be moving forward if you comply with the current legislation. Only if you comply with the law that has already been passed in 2014, should you be doing it. In fact, every time there is a debate on this issue, the People's Party uses this 2014 law as a defense of the rights of LGTBI people, but they do not at any time evaluate why five years after their approval — five years! — they did absolutely nothing. Even in the inquiry 15 days ago, the councillor answered none of our questions about the concrete actions and about the concrete fulfillment of many of the articles, because, in fact, if he replied, it would be evidence that the law remained on wet paper, that everything was good will, good words, but that they did absolutely nothing. We believe that there is no political will, so one of the points of our motion calls for urgent approval of this law to see why many of the articles it collects are being systematically broken, and what to do to make this change right now. We believe that there are many areas where action must be taken. For example, in the educational field we believe that it is unacceptable for them to launch an education protocol — actually done by associations; very good work — but that after implementation they did not carry out any sort of follow-up. In fact, with the amendment of the People's Party, they are recognizing that this evaluation of who is implementing the protocol is not done and how it is working. We believe that they should assess why they are failing in such an important way in the rights of these people. We believe that we are at a decisive time, because, as I say, this debate is increasingly present. We've been seeing for weeks that there are many groups that aim to criminalize LGTBI people, people who defend the right to be and the right to love whoever they want and whatever they want; we're seeing a lot of hate messages and trivializing violence; we're trying to go back to the past with rights that it's taken a long time to get. We understand that with this question there are only two possible positions: whether you're in favour of people's rights or if you're against, there are no more intermediate positions. And we have to say that, in fact, it surprises us — well, it does not surprise us, it worries us — that the People's Party is deciding in recent times to deal justly with homophobics. He's dealing with people who are publicly claiming that people who are not straight are sick, who are saying that Pride Day is a boisterous spectacle and other even more insulting qualities that I don't want to reproduce. They're on the side of the one who insults and the one who systematically attacks the collective. That's why we ask them today for clarity, to be clear about what they defend and what they're going to do. Because, in addition to clarity, we often see — in particular here, in Galicia, with the German People's Party — as they say one thing, but then they make another completely different. As I say, the law of 2014 has passed five years; there are many issues that could be asked in these five years, and they haven't done anything at all. But it's also true that, in view of these groups and these people who want us to go back to the past, there are also a lot of people who are defending a different future, a tolerant future and an inclusive and free future. We believe that the mobilizations and all the events celebrated on the occasion of the Day of Pride, those thousands of people who go out into the streets claiming everything that is yet to be done, are a good evidence that there is hope as well and that there are many other people who are marking the path of a different future. On this subject, as in many others, we believe that the LGTBI collectives themselves, the associative tissue, the LGTBI people and their families are who should be marking the road and marking the public policies that we should carry out. In fact, often they are the ones who have to be taking responsibility for many things that administration is not doing by leaving functions. We believe that they must be counted as a priority agent for dialogue and listen to them, but really. And at this point, for example -- we speak of the point of the motion that talks about the observatory -- we believe it is essential that there is this space, a space for dialogue with associations, for searching and analyzing what discrimination is taking place in our country and for collecting improvements, but we believe that this space must be a plural space of truth. Today we have an observatory where the Galician Union has the majority representation; it wants to sell that it is something plural and open, but in practice most of the people who are part of this observatory are directly members of the Galician Union. They didn't hear dozens of allegations that the associations made to this observatory, to the regulation; they systematically refused to listen to them. We believe it is fundamental to incorporate them and reformulate this observatory, because we agree that there has to be a space like this, but we do not agree with the way in which it went forward, because the main weight has to Join. So, to listen to yourself, we understand that these are not the organisms that we need, but we need an organism that really listens to people who are outside. On the other hand, we insist again on this motion also on the rights of trans people. We believe that today the situation is very serious: there is a legal vacuum in Galicia for these people. And today there is a totally discriminatory situation: there are people who are lucky and there are other people who are unlucky; there are those who are treated like a sick person, who is protected and who is questioned, and there are others who are not, who have been lucky and who have not been treated from this pathologist look. But what can't go on is this randomity, depending on who's on the other side of the door in the doctor and depending on who's on the other side in the trial you have a different route or other. That's why we insist so much, because the law of gender identity is urgent and it's necessary; we don't say so, it was the collectives who carried out that law and they themselves put on the paper their specific claims, the trans people and their families. We say it's urgent because, in fact, we're talking about a very serious situation: we're talking about lives, literally, because many trans people -- at least about half of the trans people -- tried at some point in their life to take their lives, almost half. We have to make an assessment that it's failing very sharply so that almost half of the people have ever tried and many more have thought about it at some point in their lives. We cannot allow a situation of such serious exclusion: the level of unemployment in this collective exceeds 80 percent. We cannot allow this situation of exclusion to be so high and continue, as does Junta to this day, systematically looking to the other side. They told him -- we didn't tell him -- the other day the families themselves told him all the way they had to go when they arrived at the reference unit, all the questions. I would like them to read, for example, the psychiatric forms that pass to see what their identity is and to wonder how they would feel if they were making you that same form, as if a certain color or toy were to mark who you are and your identity. They are such basic issues, but they continue to be made in our country. In this unit, questionnaires continue to pass, which are completely pathological. That your entry door is mental health is already an absolute error of conception, because they're not sick people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u205	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u206	As I say, it's fundamental for us to end the randomness that exists right now. We think they have a chance today to show which side they're on. We want them to explain to us, please, why they don't want to give you forward to a gender identity law that is essential and fundamental. There's no reason but ideological, but there's a obvious contradiction between what they say and what they really think. Because if they really thought about what they said in the defense of LGTBI people — especially trans people — they would give them forward, because the situation can't admit any longer. We believe that firm commitments and clear commitments are needed, and today we humbly believe that this proposal contains them. We hope you go forward unanimously the set of your points. We know it's probably very difficult, but I would ask you to draw a reasonable and real explanation -- because we're also tired of saying something and doing the opposite -- why you're opposed to the basic points -- as I say -- how this urgent gender identity law is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u208	The struggle for the rights of LGTBI people is, frankly, one of the greatest revolutions of mankind. Gender self-determination, as well as sexual diversity, which is the very norm of human condition, are human rights. But the reality of these people is that they continue to assimilate discrimination in all sectors. We have, at this historic moment, to combat hate speech, and there is no better tool — and we have it in hand — than to guarantee, on the one hand, the fulfilment of the Greek Non-Discrimination Law, and also to advance in the realization of these new rights. We remember that the PP has banned the processing of a bill on gender identity for our country that has been exposed here and has been employed from the base by the collectives themselves. Because there has been social progress; fortunately society has gone before the rules, but, of course, laws also help advance and shield rights. That's why it's fundamental for us to commit to the impulse of this integral Greek gender identity law, as well as to promote that state law. The bill is developed; it is only necessary to sit down, to consent and, of course, to have political will. Speaking of Law 2/2014, in its development it did not even comply in time with the provision that it had to forward within three years a report on its implementation. The report that would have to come in 2017 came in mid-2018; it was a very shallow and excessively triumphal document, and there was no statistical data more than some copy-paste other reports. That's why it seems essential to us to commit ourselves to an integral assessment of the law, of the degree of compliance with the law. On the other hand, there is the question of the development of the observatory: it needs to be reformulated precisely because the collectives who work day by day with this reality do not feel fully represented and with this fluidity that needs an organism of these characteristics and, as we say, also because discrimination against LGTBI people continues in all issues. Teaching is an essential tool of work. Why? Because the fight against discrimination and the eradication of school harassment is essential. But it's also essential a deeper transformation, a overcoming of the binaryism that has begun since early childhood. So it's also essential to develop the law, for example, in article 25, in that work environment with families from the ANPA, which is not sufficiently developed either. If you are, in part, grateful to the great work of the collectives, who, as has already been exposed here, have contributed to the material administration and advanced. But administration is not able to assess whether this whole educational protocol is being carried out. Following health care, there is certainly no longer any excuse for this pathologization, so that comprehensive law is so necessary on the right to self-determination of gender. In health care LGTBI people continuously move us that, depending on professionally topen, they can have a good process—in the case of trans—of self-determination of gender or having a calvary; that is why we need to stop this situation. The amendment we make, in terms of health, is to focus on the need to strengthen primary care, also on the aspect of accompanying and supporting the processes of self-determination of gender. More training is needed for professionals, but also, indeed, more material and human resources, because attention to LGTBI people, particularly trans, must be close and non-segregating, and primary care will play an essential role. Also, of course, it is essential to have more resources in mental health — in addition to the great forgetfulness of our health — because it is fundamental — it has been exposed here — in the psychological problems faced by these people, because there is a social environment that has not just accepted it; in addition, in adolescence there are high levels of depression in LGTI people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u209	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u210	The amendment we make about employment is because reality is dramatic: about 20 percent of the LGTBI people in the European Union claim to be discriminated against at work, and there is a very high level of unemployment in the trans. We therefore propose that deadlines be set at this point in the law which calls for a comprehensive study on the situation of LGTBI people in Galicia. We considered that one of the problems of the lack of development of this 2014 law is the lack of time-concretion; so we considered that this study is fundamental in this employment issue, and we put time-limits on it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u211	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u212	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all of us again. I'm going to take it here at the end, where Mrs Verao left it: the lack of concretion, the lack of deadlines in the law and, we believe, a lack of absolute political will, an absolute disillusionment with which she collected that law of 2014, which was vanguarded in the Spanish state as a whole. It was the first time a law was passed — in all the territories of the State in 2014 — that focused on the right to equality and non-discrimination of people for their gender identity or sexual orientation. But also -- we have said it from the BNG many times here in this gallery -- it was born lame, because it was missing, among other things, that chapter of sanctions and, above all, because it didn't pay attention to what trans reality deserves, everything that has to do with gender identity and with respect to the right of gender self-determination, which is just referred to in the health chapter, in article 20, with four lines — I say memory, but they're no more. That is why we understand, and we also defend 15 days ago in the previous plenary session, the need and urgency — we understand — that this German gender identity law is approved. Because if Galicia was vanguarded in 2014, we were left behind precisely because the rest of the territories, or at least part of the territories of the Spanish State, were incorporating into their normative framework that right of self-determination of gender and those laws of gender identity. The 28th week of Pride Day, also in the parliamentary session of the Basque Parliament, for example, incorporated a reform into its legislation to dispatologicalize health care for transsexuals. The fact that the Galician Union and the People's Party have an absolute lack of will and political commitment to this issue made our country stay behind. In that sense, we also say: frankly, we don't understand how you can think that the party that vetoed the debate of the project of the Greek identity law that we have brought all the political forces of the opposition and that has driven the LGTB collective itself in our country, who has prevented and who has vetoed this debate even in this chamber in this legislation, is going to be the one who is now pushing a Greek law of gender identity. [[Applause]] Some questions also to explain the amendments that we have tabled, since BNG, and which have to do with some questions. Here we spoke of the LGTB Observatory as a space for dialogue, study, analysis and, above all, participation of the LGBT collective. It is essential for us to amend Decree 131/2018, because it was born without taking into consideration virtually any of the contributions made by the associations and the LGBT collective; among others, for example: to help those people who are part of the group — who may or may not have a job — to be able to attend meetings, for example, by establishing aid; to set out more meetings than just one year, or to seek a balanced composition, because — as they can verify whether they adhere to the articulate of the decree itself — the practice or the vast majority of that body is composed of representatives of the public administration and not of the LGTB collective or of experts in the field of study, analysis and work around sexual orientation or gender identity. For us it is essential — we said 15 days ago, we repeat it now and we will do it thousands of times — to recover the centers Love You More — the centers Love You, originally, with the project they were born with, which is of accompaniment, information and counselling on affective-sexual matters to the population as a whole and, in particular, to support LGTB people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u213	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u214	We do not share that it is the information centres for women who have to take on these tasks; they have another enormous task, with an enormous workload, and we understand that, with a service that was born with that vocation, it cannot be dismantled. Then, one question — and this concludes, President — that for BNG is crucial is the need for the rights of transsexual minors to be recognised in that Law of Registrative Correction of Mention of Sex of the Year 2007. At that time, only the rights of adult people were recognized, which also had to have a number of requirements, among other things, to hormone for two years in order to accommodate these documentary changes. This same week, the Spanish Constitutional Court will resolve the issue of the rights of transsexual minors and their right to change their gender identity in identity papers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u215	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u216	But we believe that it cannot assume judicial power what is a task of political power and that we have lost an immense opportunity — the whole society of the Spanish state — in the previous legislation, when there was a proposal for a trans-legislation at the Congress of Deputies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u217	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u218	...and, for lack of political will of the forces represented there, it didn't go forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u219	Thank you. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u220	Good morning, gentlemen. In 2014 we made history by adopting the first law that developed the principle of equal treatment and non-discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity. It was a law that had so many enemies, even since before it was passed. In some cases it was motivated by discriminatory and retrograde issues; but don't be mistaken, not only for that. Many enemies considered it totally unnecessary, either out of ignorance or not to give them the importance that they have to discriminatory acts and, above all, to the consequences that they bring upon the people who suffer them. But there were also, ladies and gentlemen, some who were opposed to the single law and exclusively because it wasn't his law. We always say that the law was passed unanimously, but it's not exactly like that. There was a group, called the Left Galaga Alternative, which later divided and generated the Mixed Group, which did not want to vote in favour of the law. For them the reason of nine Members was above the reason they had the rest of the sixty-six Members and above all also the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks and the gays, the lesbians, the transsexuals and the Galician bisexuals. From the first day of that group and then their heirs were against the Greek law because they were unable to reach agreements that were very important to many people. Look: when I recognize — and I acknowledge it many times — the work of lawmakers, I do it because they were able to put the general interest and also the interest of thousands of gay, lesbian and transsexual over party interests, some sectors of their organizations that care about a curse the collective and discrimination and all they care about is their party tactics. There are people who never believed in the law; they only believed in it when they thought that the People's Party, the majority group, would reject it. And since it wasn't — and our group, in addition, is very proud to be the architects and the ones we most contributed to having the first law LGTBI from all over Spain — you have been attacking it for years, dedicated to devaluing it and asking for its modification, the elimination of some part of its articulate or even its derogation through the approval of another law that nullifies most of the articulate of this law. How curious, ladies and gentlemen: both those retrogrades who were against the law and those sectarians who are also against the law are united; they are united because their aim is the same, which is to end with a law that represents most Greeks and Greeks. That's it and it's seen every time the Galician Union, in accordance with the law, approves a measure, because both of them go out into the trumpet. [[Applause]] Did the Galician Board create the observatory? You're out on your first day to criticize their creation. And they also criticize their composition, which I would also like to remind them of -- follows the same approach as with other councils or observatories; so it would be good if they explained to us why this criterion is valid for other groups and is not valid for the LGTBI collective. Is this collective less important? Is the strictness of the observatory less in the LGTBI collective than in other collectives? Are we different from the other collectives? Why in those cases are these criteria valid and not valid in this case? Ladies and gentlemen, you should explain. It's an educational protocol, and you're criticizing that it didn't happen to Junta, but it's done by the entities. You think if Junta made this protocol without relying on the opinion of the entities, anyway, you'd criticize it anyway. They criticise that entities do so and they would criticize whether the Galician Union did so or whether the Galician Union applied what entities do. But we agree that there should be a follow-up and that we would agree to support that point. In health care, the same thing: you do an instruction and you don't call it clinical protocol precisely to avoid pathologizing, but you also criticize it without even listening to the reasons you're arguing; without listening to them, without that. That is, something is done precisely to avoid what we're asking for and then we criticize the same thing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u221	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u222	From the compliance of Article 8, LGTBI support and mediation service, which established that the information, care and counselling service was done in collaboration with local governments: you, Bloc lords, do not want it to be this way, and it is wrong to err with a model that is only present in cities, not like the other one, that is present in more than eighty municipalities. But besides, Your Honor, it may be what you say, but I think it's just because you're not able to admit that the Bipartite no longer won the elections; that's not the model that the Greeks wanted, and you're still wrong that you're wrong. You didn't let the other day vote an initiative where there could be agreements because you thought what the Bipartite was doing was better than that. On the last point you proposed, we agree: we must make the necessary changes to Law 3/2007 which regulates the registrar rectification, and we will support it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u223	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u224	There was an agreement to do so, and by the dissolution of the cameras in the previous legislation, it could not be carried out. We will continue to defend — which is very clear — the compliance with the law of LGTBI, an important law...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u225	Thank you, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u226	Yes, to stand on the vote, I would like to clarify...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u227	But he's finished his time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u228	...what the honourable Member said earlier, the proposal for the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u229	Come on, ten seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u230	In relation to point 1, we understand that the law LGTBI is integral and can respond to everything we talk about. The evidence of that is that in all the initiatives that are being brought there are a lot of points in agreement. To say otherwise...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u231	Thank you. All right, you got it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u232	...he agreed to the content, but we thought the law LGTBI...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u233	Thank you. Your time is up, Mr. Trenor. Thank you. [[Mr. Trenor López utters words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u234	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Today I want to begin my intervention on behalf of the Socialist Group: in the face of indiscriminate and unjust attacks that our colleague, Mr. Grande-Marlaska, is to transmit our support on behalf of the PSdEG and the Socialist Group and also his recognition of his work in defence of the rights of LGTBI people. [[Applause]] There's a little runrunrun on the People's Party bench when I mention Mr. Grande-Marlaska. I would recommend that you read your book, but just stop on the title that comes on the cover: No sorrow or fear. A judge, a life and a struggle for who we are. Because this goes on, ladies and gentlemen, the struggle to leave people as they like. Faced with the PSdeG, the Socialist Party, my comrade Grande-Marlaska and many others, with the whole LGTBI movement we were in this mobilization this weekend in Madrid. We've been defending and demanding all those issues and those rights we've seen asking for these last few years. There was one who was only to claim himself as a political party and there was one who was — as it was usually in the People's Party — simply to pose. Members of a political party -- I would say here today -- who cried out for freedom when they were recriminalized with their complicity with the extreme homophobic right and who they had, ladies and gentlemen, the face of doing so alongside people who suffered repression and harassment because of their sexual status or gender identity; very little shame, gentlemen. [[Applause]] Today we came here, once again, to hear that if partyism, if political. Confounding politics with partisanism is serious, and we are concerned. But it is still more to confuse the manifestation of Pride as if it were and to want it to be a kind of king's horseman, because it's not about that, ladies. This happens to those who don't understand that politics is an engine of society change, to those who don't assume that the demonstrations of the LGTBI collective, since the beginning of democracy and before even, have always had a clear political component, from their indications. All the mobilizations always had a slogan, a slogan that referred to the need to involve the political class and to establish those normative changes; the first, in 1977, in Barcelona, to request the derogation of the franchising laws that pursued LGTBI people. So much so — both postureo, as I was saying — that this year the State Federation of Lesbians, Gays, Transsexuals and Bisexuals made a decal that they had to comply with political parties in order to carry out a carriage. It turns out that the People's and Citizens' Party, the right-wing parties, didn't meet the first two points. First point: do not take advantage of the votes of the parties who defend an extreme right ideology to govern; second point: develop and comply with the autonomous laws relating to LGTBIphobia and trans people. Neither Galicia nor the Galician People's Party are meeting this second point. Neither did the first, for not being directly opposed to what their comrades were doing in other autonomous communities, arming and embracing the far right. And the second because here, in Galicia, it is true, Mr Trenor and the Lords of the People's Party, that we have made a state-level pioneering law — by the way they are often forgotten: on a proposal from the PSdeG — a valuable inheritance of the previous legislation achieved by the efforts of their rapporteurs; for us that is a huge responsibility as a parliamentary group, and the best way, Mr Trenor, to respect that inheritance is to ask for the law to be complied with. Ask the government that they're keeping it start once and for all to comply with that law and not keep it cryogenicized as it is now, with seventy percent of the text not fulfilled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u235	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u236	In Galicia we have passed, ladies and gentlemen, from being pioneers, as has been said on many occasions, to have — as is mentioned by this federation, and it is in reference to Galicia — obsolete and decaffeinated laws, without a regime of sanctions and that do not meet the main needs. In addition, they remember that the right to gender identity is recognized in nine of seventeen autonomous communities; in Galicia, not because of the vote against the People's Party, which stole the possibility that we had a debate. We are going to support this non-law proposal and all those who are going to be led to strengthen and fight for the rights of LGTBI people, but in addition, we will continue to work through the Government of Spain, as it has not been done in recent years — as it has already been announced — with this amendment of the regulatory law...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u237	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u238	...of registrar rectification, with a law of equal treatment and a law of hate crimes. We're going to keep arguing why in this country, in the society of this country, we fell all and all, not just the extreme right. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u239	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Author group of the motion, Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u240	Well, it's no surprise that I've used most of the time to defend the law of 2014. But if they so much defend her, why haven't they done anything in the last five years for this law to be implemented? Absolutely nothing! They've been systematically failing most of their articles for five years; even, as I said, today's amendment makes it clear that they don't do them, and the amendment could cause them to stop failing, and you yourself recognize it. So, as much as they come here to defend a law, it remained only on wet paper. Our group, in fact, abstained justly explaining that, if there was no sanctioning regime and if there were no specific deadlines, the law would, as always, remain on wet paper. The problem is there's no political will. Despite what they're going to say here, obviously, there's no political will. They complain a lot that we always put them on the side of the homophobics, but I'm going to say: we don't put them on, you put them on! All the decisions that have been made in recent years are homophobic and macho, because it also gives to debate the previous motion, which sometimes has to be heard in this parliament many barbarities. They manifested themselves and did their best against equal marriage, voted against the gender identity law, and today they will vote against promoting a gender identity law with the excuse of the 2014 law. Have you read the law of 2014? Leuna? And do you think the law of 2014 really...? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Bring me the specific articles that protect trans people. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What are they doing? What measures are they putting forward for trans people to stop suffering? Because reality doesn't tell her, she was told by the families: they told her what they live every time they go to the doctor, they also told her about the enormous difficulties they have when they don't feel recognized in their identity card. The high rate of exclusion, unemployment, suicide attempts, doesn't it seem to you that he's warning us and giving us an alarm voice that something is being done wrong and that action needs to be taken? We believe so; as much as you repeat that there is a law, the reality is what it is. Five years later, this law that has been a step forward — and we recognize that it has been a step forward — is totally insufficient.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u241	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u242	They voted against this law, today they will vote against it again, voted against removing transphobic pamphlets from Hazte Hear, that's all you did. And now they're dealing with the groups that insult the LGTBI collective, they're dealing with who they're repeatedly insulting. And he didn't listen very well: we're not against the education protocol; in fact, it's much better — I'm sure — if you did, because associations have sensitivity. What we are against is that it is not implemented and that there is absolutely nothing done to assess its compliance.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u243	On the amendments, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u244	On the amendments: we made a compromise proposal understanding that there was will; after hearing the voice of the People's Party, we understood that there was no will, that all we wanted was to come here to wash our face, frankly. We accept point 3 of the BNG, because we think it's right to remain in the decree, and we also accept point 6 of the Galician Nationalist Block; we accept point 7 of the Joint Group, with a transaction — which we have already made known to it — and we reject points 1, 2 and 3 of the People's Party. Point 1 because it's an insult, because they come here to talk about a report that was a copy and grabs the law and a copy and grabs some certain definitions and says that this is an assessment of the law is an insult.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u245	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u246	I'm done. In point 3 they're acknowledging that they've put a decree years ago for the CIMs to perform a function and that the staff of the CIMs don't have that training or have those resources. Now they come to say that we have to implement it. Well, it would be good if, when they have implemented the decree, they had this planned and provided training and sufficient staff for women's information centres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u247	Thank you. Then accept point 4.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u248	Point 4 is included in the transaction. But we will not accept the vote by points, because they do not vote on point 1.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u249	Well, do you accept point 4 of the People's Parliamentary Group?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u250	Point 4 is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u251	Thank you. After the motions have been closed, we shall proceed to the vote. Close the doors, please. We begin by voting on the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Julio Torrado. He didn't accept the amendments. [[Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo Rodríguez asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u252	I wanted to ask for a point of order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u253	Do you accept the point vote, Mr. Torrado?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u254	I think it would have been prudent to ask for it in the debate, so we are not going to accept it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u255	Well, then we're going to vote. It does not accept a point of vote. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the position of the Galician Parliament and the action to be taken by the Government of Greece on women's health care. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; abstentions, 37. The voting is positive. This motion is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u256	We now vote in favour of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Maria de la Concepción Burgo. He accepts the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María de la Concepción Burgo López, on the opening by the Government of Galicia of a dialogue table with representatives of the stage arts sector to address and solve the problems of the Galego Dramatic Center. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; against 37. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u257	We are now voting for the Group of the European People's Party. [[Mr. Trenor López asks for the use of the word.]] Mr. Trenor, what do you want the word for? Give your voice to the scene.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u258	I wanted to ask the President if he could make a deal with our initiative and not accept the vote on points of our own transaction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u259	Mrs. Quinteiro? Give your seat a voice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u260	We leave point 4 of our initial and the transaction is made with the rest of the groups as well.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u261	Thank you. Well, that's the transaction she's already commented on. We shall vote on the motion from the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea. We voted, as Mrs Quinteiro explained, that deal. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. in Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of equal treatment and non-discrimination of lesbians, gays, transsexuals, bisexuals and intersexuals. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; against 37. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u262	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. We continue with point 4 of the agenda, non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members, on the demand by the Government of Greece to the central government for the transfer to Galicia of competences in the field of the management of scholarships, as well as the corresponding economic resources
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u263	An amendment has been tabled by the EMEA Parliamentary Group. [[(G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mrs. Luca Chao Pérez, through her spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-law.Additional amendment.The following points should be added to the resolution:"1. Retrieve the call for own bags immediately.2. Article a policy on grants and scholarships to the study through annual calls to ensure that all students who meet the qualifications for university studies with benefit can, on an equal basis, access university studies and develop them without being excluded for economic reasons, as set out in Law 6/2013 of 13 June of the University System of Galicia."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u264	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Rodil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u265	Thank you, President. Hello again. We changed a little bit of a twist, but not everything, that we kept talking about rights. In the previous plenary session — you will remember — fifteen days ago, agreeing with the appearance of the Education Adviser, we said from the Nationalist Block of Wales, to the thread of that absolutely artificial debate and manipulated around the evidence of access to the university, which really means a crack and assumes a stake or discrimination in the education system is the social class. It's the socio-economic factors that greatly condition students, their training opportunities, and even their academic performance. Today, since BNG, we have brought this initiative to focus precisely on the right to education, especially on non-compulsory higher education — university education — and on ensuring equal opportunities for the entire student of our country. And we do so, in addition, with a proposal that aims to defend and expand the German self-government. As you know, Galicia has full teaching skills — which is what Article 31 of the 1981 Statute provides — but at present the system of scholarships for the study depends on the Spanish Government's Ministry of Education and has been carrying out huge management problems for years that have also severely harmed the student in our country, mainly — I insist, although not only, but mainly — the university student. We have been dragging these problems for many years, but especially since 2012, with the reform that you have applied to or from that minister of education of the People's Party, Mr. Wert, and which is being maintained today, in spite of the announcements and criticisms that the Socialist Party has made at the time. Today, the division of scholarships is maintained in a variable content and in a fixed content, and also the obligation of an average of 5.5 to ensure the maintenance of that aid in the second, third and subsequent courses; not to access the first year of registration, but to maintain that help to university study in the following courses. In our country, taking as a reference the student enrolled in the 2018-2019 course, nearly twenty-seven thousand students requested a scholarship to study their university studies. They were beneficiaries of these aid eighteen thousand people, who perceived an average count of about two thousand euros. It is a tale that is far from meeting the economic needs of the student, especially those people who are forced to leave the house and move to another city or even another province to be able to pursue their higher education, and which has been reduced — this average count — in addition to the recent years as a result of the tightening of the criteria to access these aids and also of the successive budget cuts applied since 2013 by the Spanish Government. To get an idea, in 2012, the average aid count in our country was about EUR 2 billion, and today — I insist — is just over 2,000. In addition to insufficient numbers and content, the student has the consequences of a system that causes enormous delays in the processing, approval and payment of aid. They are being entered in some cases after the completion of the academic course, which forces families to have to bear very high costs of transport, housing, maintenance, material-- consequences that, in addition, generate distortions also in the budgets of universities, which do not enter the money that corresponds to these scholarship fees until the applications are resolved. It is a situation that violates the fundamental principle of what these scholarships are supported for study, which is to guarantee equal opportunities for all students in our country. On the contrary, such delays, delays and mismanagement in these aids do open up an important business niche and an important market niche for some financial entities, which in this adjournment sees a business for their businesses. They propose many times — and they do many entities, especially the most powerful Santander Bank — to put forward a part — ninety-five percent, generally — of these aids to the student, yes, with the corresponding commission charge and even interest to the student himself. Financial entities in our country — here in Galicia — are charging commissions of three percent to advance ninety-five percent of the registration, taking advantage in many cases, in addition, of having branches of the financial entity itself within its own faculties. They're doing business with a right and, above all, taking advantage of the mismanagement of the public administration. Recently, in June 2019, Airef published a study on the system of university scholarships that identified different factors limiting the equality of opportunity for the student and among them there were four fundamentals. The first — what we were talking about earlier — is the constant delays in processing, adjudication and payment of aid. Airef himself places in seventy percent the student who does not receive help until the second quarter, when he has practically finished his subjects and has already practically finished the course, and that prevents many families, especially those who do not have enough resources, from being able to count on the help needed to cope with the start of the course. The contents of the residence bag don't even cover the needs of the student, especially the one who has to see the obligation to leave the family home. The income thresholds that are used to select applicants and approve or deny aid are not updated since 2010, with all that it charges; among other things, for example, because in the last year the minimum interprofessional wage has been increased, this may mean — non-upgradation — that there are families who, simply because they are guaranteed their right to receive a fairer salary, are left without the corresponding aids to the study. And then, a question that affects enormously or in a more special way, above all our country, which is the discretion with which it acts in the application of certain criteria, including heritage. This — I say and I insist — is particularly serious in the case of the people of Galicia, especially those families living in rural areas. Regardless of family income, the criteria that are currently in force deny aid to those families and those applicants who exceed certain heritage thresholds, other than in rural areas than in urban spaces, which do not take into account the Greek social and economic reality. There are people who are left without help because they have sheds or because they have agribusiness ships, beyond the income does not reach the thresholds that the call itself sets at least. What we propose since the BNG today is that the Galician Board should exercise its powers — which it has, moreover, our recognised country — and which calls for the transfer of these scholarships, as Euskadi has already had since 1985 and as it has acknowledged Catalonia, by the way, with three favourable judgments of the Constitutional Court, the last of 2016. In addition, we defend — in a synthetic way — that the Union should be able to assume the competences of the scholarships to study for two main reasons — and with this end, President: the first — as stated at the outset — to ensure an effective, more agile system that corrects the current imbalances, that takes into account above all the specificities of our country and that guarantees the right of access and equal opportunities not only to access to aid, but also to access to university education to the whole of our country's student; and, secondly, to comply with an agreement inspired by the Nationalist Block Galego in January 2019, which convinced the unanimous support of all the forces present in this parliament and which it aims to end this decade when the Government of the People's Party not only defended the self-government of our country—limited, but existing—but also brought the unity of all the forces present in this Parliament to the centralist attacks and the cut-offs the rights of the United Nations. We have therefore called for this Parliamentary agreement from the BNG which calls on the Galician Council to call on the Joint Transfer Commission to take forward all those transfers already claimed, and the scholarships to study were also so, ladies and gentlemen, in 2008. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u266	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u267	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Today we have an initiative on the table of the Galego Nationalist Block that addresses two issues that, in our view, are fundamental: on one side, we talk about the necessary field of competence and, on the other, of a political tool for equal opportunities as are the university scholarships. But let's go to the first, the so-called competition area. Here we have to highlight one of the many great lies of the People's Party, one of the many great lies we hear in Feijóo's mouth: "We want more self-government, we want more competences." He said it ten years ago and repeated it a few months after a decade of absolute paralysis in which the Government of Beijóo was unable to reach a single new transfer. Repeated lies also in his electoral programmes, where he assured that he would give a new impetus to self-government based on a package of up to seventy powers that all parliamentary forces had agreed on as priority. They were seventy and they got zero. Your seriousness and commitment, of course! On the other hand, in the centralized tour of Casado, they're already walking around like the headless people trying to return their own competences, like the evidence of access to the university, of what we're talking about at the last plenary session. Now even part of the teaching is left to them. They refuse to govern, they refuse to expand this country's horizon, and they are launched into a dangerous recentralizing path that will not improve people's lives at all. Let's hope they recapitulate. The Greeks and the Greeks, of course, deserve to enjoy their own educational system, centered on our needs, strengths and potentialities; a proper educational system with appropriate scholarships that cater to the particularities of our country, such as population dispersion, the enormous cost of transport to our people, etc. They know that many times we have insisted in this parliament that scholarships for study are a fundamental mechanism for promoting equal opportunities for students with greater socio-economic difficulties, being one of the instruments for which children and children of the most disadvantaged classes were able to access studies at both medium and higher levels. In this way, investment in educational scholarships was a fundamental tool to reduce the socio-educational gap we suffered. The excuse of the economic crisis, however, served as a discourse to justify the neoliberal turning of educational policies, transforming this tool against social injustice into a kind of prize to excellence. Your Grace, Your Grace, Your Grace, Repeat. In this context, it might have been understood that the change in the criteria made by that badge minister — who ended up resting in Paris — to access university scholarships, who reduced the weight of socio-economic criteria while increasing academic requirements, forgetting a fundamental thing: that both conditioners are closely related. In that framework, the Galician board brought forward a call for university scholarships for students who had first access to university studies and had failed to meet academic requirements. It was a summons intended — according to the text itself — to try to cover, as far as possible, the needs of university students; lines that, for their effectiveness and efficiency, must adapt to the changing circumstances of the socio-economic environment and the normative variations produced at the state level. It was clear: they intended to rectify in part the disablings of the Ministry of Education. Thus, the Galician Junta held a call for the 2016-2017 course and another for the 2017-2018 course with matches of two hundred thousand euros to cover — I said — these first student registrations. These aids already at the time we said they were insufficient, every time they were only concerned with covering the tuition price, but they were lucky enough to leave all the student's university life costs: housing, maintenance, transportation... however, in this academic course this invitation that we said was insufficient ended up disappearing. That's why we tabled an amendment to the proposal of the Galician Nationalist Block in which we called for the inclusion of two new points: the first, which would be to recover the convening of these own scholarships immediately, and the second, to articulate a policy on aid and scholarships to the study by means of annual calls to ensure that all students who meet the qualifications for university studies with benefit...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u268	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u269	...can have equal access to university studies and develop them without exclusion for economic reasons, as set out in Law 6/2013 of June 13 of the University System of Galicia. I mean, we support, of course, the non-law proposition of the Galician Nationalist Block and we hope they can include our amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u270	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u271	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Since Marea we are going to support this non-law proposal regarding the transfer of competences, understanding that it is a measure of increasing self-government that does not harm anyone, that does not prejudice the functioning of any of the entities with political autonomy within the State and that, on the other hand, extends basic citizens' rights to a very specific spectrum of our country, which is uniquely the Galician youth — although not only it — in access to a fundamental asset, which is the right to education. On the right to education as a fundamental right, we often focus on the uniquely university space, although I also want to recall the need for certain intermediate levels to be able to carry out this training on an equal footing as well. I want to remember how last year, on a visit to a FP center, several of the students and students made us note — we were on the Road, in the center of FP of ebanistry, carpentry and furniture design — that on the Road there were not many possibilities of renting a floor and at the same time the communications were difficult to return to the places of origin, and that had produced an intensification of this study by the boys and girls who were there. So it seemed to us that it was something that also deserved special attention and, therefore, we took advantage of this intervention to also claim full attention to this whole sector. Once again, when there is a problem with scholarships, delays, lack of counting, etc., those who pay are the same: the sons and daughters of working classes, middle classes and humble classes, who have an economic opportunity for their formation and lose access to a fundamental right precisely by a bad institutional articulation that today could be perfectly resolved. So we think that there is no reason to leave this situation as it happens now. We have a competition that exercises the State and exercises it incorrectly; therefore, a better understanding of our own reality and our own needs could give rise to an improvement in the educational conditions of our student. Three are the purposes that we understand would improve with this measure proposed by the BNG. The first one is to speed up management. In March — as you will all know — only twenty-three percent of college students — are official data from the Greek universities — were charged with the help they had received as purses and purses, twenty-three percent in March! After April's order of payment, thirty-seven percent of the student from the Greek universities had not yet received the study's help. Consequently, the forecast for this year was that, on average, the university student took seven months — seven months! — in the late payment of scholarships. This is an obvious problem for us that, as Parliament, we cannot avoid, and it is a problem because it limits fundamental rights. A scholarship is an aid to study, supplement the family income or personal income of those who do not have the capacity to meet these expenses; expenses that are necessary, ladies and gentlemen, to guarantee the fundamental right to education. A transfer of scholarships would allow you to set a payment order calendar at the beginning of the well done academic course, because it is now not doing well, although there are possibilities for doing so. We know that delay has accounting reasons: often it's delayed to give payment orders because, while payment orders are not given, the money remains in the public archives and therefore generates a profitable accounting situation for the administration as long as the transfer does not occur. We think we can't do business or at least with regard to the money to study. Secondly, this transfer would improve the efficiency of available resources. We're not talking about a simple decentralization; we're talking about a transfer, which is something different, and this would allow us to set simplified requirements for access to scholarships and, secondly, to have more in tune with the socio-economic reality of our country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u272	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u273	Yes, I'm going to finish. We also want to remember here the shame of the galponazo — which came in the cataclysm — of making rich families who had pendants to keep the wood of winter or make those immovables pay as if they were luxury dwellings. Thirdly, it would also improve efficiency by taking into account the population settlement and the dispersion of the population in relation to the study centres for the quantification of transport scholarships, also taking into account the poor public transport that exists in our country, of which we have given good account for many occasions here. Finally, and this is an additional reflection to the proposal itself, the increase in available resources; not only the sufficient ordinary resources as a result of the transfer, which is usually done, but also the additional contemplation of self-financing appropriate to the needs in order to carry out the effectiveness of the fundamental right to education of all persons who are in a position to receive a scholarship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u274	Thank you, Mr. Villares. We understood that it was a lapse; there was a lapse in his position: when he said In Marea he meant Mixed Group. We all understand that: positioning of the Joint Group. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u275	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon again. The Socialists are going to support this GNP, of course, in principle from a generic point of view, because we believe it is always good to get the greatest number of transfers and strengthen self-government, and that is what this is for. And on the other hand, because one of the fundamental competences that our autonomy has is education, and scholarship management is part of that competition. On the other hand, the Constitutional Court, already in four judgments — which I know — urged the Central Government to give in to autonomous communities the management of scholarships. In fact, last year, in 2016, the Constitutional Court said exactly that it asked the Central Government to stop withholding competences about the management of scholarships and that it allowed the intervention of autonomous communities when they requested it; and said so in the same terms in 2001, 2005 and 2015. Of course, we believe that our autonomous community has sufficient administrative resources to manage these scholarships, and we cannot forget that the directors themselves — the three rectors — have called for this transfer on numerous occasions. So there's no element not to do it. On the other hand, it is true that, in addition, it affects a very large number of people, because at least at university levels, around 50 percent of the student asks for some scholarship; scholarships that socialists consider a right. A right that has broken the People's Party — it must also be said — because the changes that are being made by the People's Party — and that's why the system of scholarships is working wrong now — have made a right like the scholarship for anyone who had the conditions to have it become a competitive aid. So, of course — to sum up — you have to give that new scholarship consideration. Of course, the Socialist Government will change — so on numerous occasions — the system of scholarships. It's true he didn't do it entirely, but it's true that in the decree he increased the fixed amount, which he benefited about fifteen thousand university students from Greek, and removed the average note to enter. In its own Decree 951/2018, which established the scholarship scheme for that year, it has undertaken — in its own decree — a firm commitment to carefully review the current model of scholarships for study, improving its funding so that both the number of scholarship students and the number of scholarships can be increased. They also recovered, by the way, the Seneca scholarships, which had been eliminated. It must be remembered — I imagine that we all have it in mind — that the 2019 budgets have not been approved and that, therefore, they are working with past budgets. Because the idea that we had in those 2019 budgets was to go up to a minimum of two billion to the budget count of scholarships, from the four hundred and fifty.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u276	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u277	The fundamental elements are many — and I have made a number of initiatives in this regard — like the other opposition groups — about this system of scholarships opened in 2013. One of the problems, of course, is the delay, that must be changed and that must be transformed; but it is also true that the delay comes, essentially, by that variable count that imposed by the People's Party. I have to say that the Socialist Government this year has increased the number of employees of the Ministry in Galicia in thirty people. But it's true that you have to take it into consideration and change that right. Yes, it is true that the entire scholarship system will be changed, for which, in addition, the Scholarship Observatory was convened a few months ago; a Scholarship Observatory and Aids to the Study that the People's Party had not called since 2011.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u278	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u279	Finally, in conjunction with the previous intervention: another lack of clear dialogue always present in the People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u280	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u281	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Go ahead, the People's Parliamentary Group will support this non-legislative proposal of the Galician Nationalist Block. Ladies and gentlemen, we make this explicit support for pure coherence with the trajectory of both the People's Group in Government and the People's Group in this House. As a government, already in 2010, within the Bilateral Commission for Autonomous Community Cooperation in Galicia-State, this matter was dealt with, one of the competences of the list of the subject matter of the meeting — as I said — with the Government of the State. At that time — in February 2010 — the Socialist Government of Mr Zapatero proposed, as a step before an effective transfer of competences, that if a collaborative bridge agreement should be signed to prepare administratively for the transfer of full exercise of the competences in the field of scholarships for study. By the way, Mrs. Rodil, this is the system in Catalonia. In spite of the fact that Mr Zapatero's State Government has agreed with Generalitat on the transfer of this competition, you are sure that it has never taken effect. Therefore, bilateral agreements on this issue have been signed since the 2005-2006 academic year. I'm saying this because it seems that often you look too far out by putting other territories for example and underestimating what we are, what we do and what we've achieved among all of us. It seems you want to obtain favorable data from our education system, such as the drop in the rate of early school dropout, which places us under the Spanish average; the PISA index, whose last report highlights the improvements in the competences of pupils and pupils in Greece, or, for example, the high percentage of employability of vocational training both ordinary and dual. And you know what, Mrs. Rodil? In this particular case, Catalonia is not a model to follow, because its indebtedness has implied, among other matters, that university fees have risen in such a way that neither the scholarships can compensate for this increase; nor is it the Basque Government system, because just the recent judgment — as you will know — shows that these criteria and the thresholds of the income you were talking about involve discrimination with regard to the other students and students in other territories. But on the other hand, the good thing to do the Government of the People's Party has allowed university fees here, in our country, to continue to be kept among the lowest in Spain and that the additional aid from the Greek scholarships to the Ministry's scholarships reaches more than six hundred beneficiaries, as the adviser pointed out at his last plenary session. At the same meeting, the councillor himself stated that the Government of Greece was willing to study rigorously the need for budgets and human resources in order to make effective transfers of university scholarships to Galicia. This assertion is part of a declaration of intentions by the Government of Greece to address different issues with the Ministry of Education concerning education and the universities of Greece, understanding that Galicia wants to defend its singularities and its model; a model based on quality and talent, but also on efficiency, equity and equal opportunities. The resolution of its proposal mentions the transfer of competition and the economic resources corresponding to it. We understand that, when it speaks of economic resources, the actual cost of the personal, material and computer resources required to develop effectively and solve the functions corresponding to the autonomous public administration will be implied. But we want to point out that it is not only competition and budgetary amount, but also the human and material resources that enable us to execute and manage this competition with the efficiency required to public administrations precisely to avoid delays or malfunctions that you all mentioned here before. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party has a clear position: indeed, we aspire to more and better self-government according to our constitutional status of historical nationality. We want to move forward in the defence of our real self-government according to an orderly plan and setting priorities, but we also reserve our right to assess whether Galicia should assume any other competition that is transferred to another autonomous community. Mrs. Chao, it's not just about skills; it's about canvases and exercise. You had powers that you didn't know how to exercise, so you threw them out of the governments of the cities where they were. That is why we want to be able to exercise our powers in the best possible conditions. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u282	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u283	Mrs. Burgo, if you are so in favour of this transfer, you can tell your government — when there is any — or someone — if someone takes the phone in Madrid — that he bets for implementing the real decree that is now in force, Royal Decree 1721. It starts with that, and then we can talk about the actual transfer, when someone in Madrid has the right to pick up the phone. In this sense, I would like to remind you that the teaching grants were already, as I said, in the agenda of the German Government, and that is why our vote will be in favour of this non-law proposal, as long as it retains its original text. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u284	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio Vilasánchez. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u285	Thank you, President. Go forward, too, thanks to all the groups in the House for their support. By taking him here at last, in his speech, Mrs. Antonio: to want more and better self-government, we've been for a decade without a single transfer, not a single one! And there's AP-9 or traffic, for setting two examples alone. With fervent longing, from the BNG we have supported that will of more and better self-government, but note it, to note it! I'm going to try to structure the intervention a little bit so I don't get lost. Indeed, we gather in the resolution that you have to be accompanied by the necessary economic resources, and that is also the work of the executive power, of those who have the responsibilities of government, which is to open a negotiating table and defend, of course, that not only have to come the accounts that correspond to the scholarships to which Galicia has the right, but also all the personnel and all the human and material resources that correspond to it, as any competitive transfer should be negotiated, or so we understand it from the Galician Nationalist Block. We did not underestimate Galicia in any case, but it is logical — and so my intention was also in the first intervention — that we should take a look at what is the competitive reality of our surroundings more or less immediately, so I referred to that transfer in the year 1985 of the Basque case. We can speak long and hard of that recent judgment which considers scholarships in the Basque Country discriminatory, because what you question are the levels — you said so — the income thresholds. To get an idea, the average annual income of families in the Spanish state as a whole is twenty-eight thousand euros a year, when in the case of the Basque Country we speak of more than thirty thousand. I mean, they adapt their bags to their social and economic reality. But — I insist — it is also true that we make reference to these successive judgments of the Constitutional Court because the Spanish State is usurping powers which do not correspond to it, and the best example is the Catalan case, where it was intended to replace what is a competitive transfer by the signing of a far-reaching agreement to comply with the competence framework of our country. Just, at the end, two questions. As far as the amendment is concerned, we are not going to accept it, regardless of whether we are absolutely in agreement with what Mrs Chao says. The call for the specific scholarships of the Galician Board in 2018 is of a tiny hundred and ten thousand euros that do not come from far enough to meet the needs of the German student; it also excludes those people who have already received that help in previous years, and we are not at all in agreement. But our proposal today is very specific and very clear, and we will have time — absolutely convinced — to see what criteria and the system must be applied in our country once we have also transferred these powers. And just by finishing up: when we talk about sovereignty and when we talk about political power, I think today we have a good example of what it means, that we have tools to be able to improve the living conditions of the workers and the workers in this country; today I think we have a good idea of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u286	Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and eight other Members, on the demand of the Government of Galicia to the central government for programming the necessary workload for the shipyards of Navantia in Ferrol
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u287	There are amendments to the Joint Parliamentary Group and to the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[(G. X. P. Mixto, at the initiative of Mr Francisco Francisco Casal Vidal, through its spokes spokesman and in the light of Article 161.2 of the Rules of the Chamber, presents before the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legis proposal.Add amendment.Add amendment.The following points should be added to the resolution part:"2.- The Parliament of Galicia Parliament urges the French Parliament of Galicia, through its spokes spokes spokes spokesperson and in the light of Article 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure, to the Bureau the following amendment to the following points:"2.- The Galician Parliament of Galicia, through its spokes spokes spokes spokesperson and in the light of Article 161.2 of the Rules of the Rules of the House of the Rules of the Rules of Chamber, to the following the following the following amendment to the Bureau the following the following the following the following Article 161.2 of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure, the following Article 161.2 of the Bureau of the Bureau of the Rules of the Bureau of the Bureau of the Bureau of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Chamber, the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Chamber, the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of Procedure of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of Procedure of Procedure of Procedure of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Chamber, the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Chamber of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[(G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Manuel Pérez Seco, through his spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, presented to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal.Amendment of amendment.The resolution should be replaced by the following text:"The Parliament of Galicia urges the Council of Galicia to:1st. To address the Central Government to ask it to continue its work in support of Navantia and, in particular, in the search for new demands and charges on the international market, in order to ensure sufficient workload for the Ferrol.2° shipyard. (a)Promoting the formation of new incorporations into the yard, as well as the formation of dual FP.b)Promoting coordination between the main company and the auxiliary companies for the training plans.c)Development of the Innovation and Services Centre (CIS A Cabana, Ferrol) associated with the naval.")]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u288	Mr Tellado has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u289	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to show the solidarity and support of the People's Parliamentary Group to the coal carriers, who today completed a march to Madrid denouncing the intention of the Government of Pedro Sánchez to close, by means of facts and by the price of CO2 emissions rights, the thermal power stations of Galicia. The irresponsible policy of the Ministry of Energy Transition is what it wants and, of course, we are and we want to be on the side of the workers. The Socialist Party has succeeded in closing Meirama and now the Socialist Party wants to close the thermal power plant of the Bridges. [[Applause]] Of course, it does not contain us, and go ahead with our support, our solidarity and our support to the transporters of the coal of the district of Ferrolterra. Once the launch of the second supply and combat ship that builds Navantia Ferrol for the Australian Navy takes place next August, there will be a drop in the workload on the rail yards of the Ferrol River, a decrease that will especially affect the steel guild and especially the workers of the auxiliary industry. We have brought an initiative that responds to a common call in the district of Ferrolterra and throughout the Ferrol River, in which we are asked to political parties unit of action to ensure that there is no such download of the workload that could destroy, from summer onwards, around 500 jobs. This is because the actual work, the actual work of building the F-110 frigates, will not reach the workshops with the cutting of sheet until about two years ago, at the beginning of 2022. This undoubtedly gives way to doubt, a horizon of uncertainty for the workers of an entire sector in the district of Ferrolterra, and we, of course, believe that the political parties, governments and institutions that we have to generate are certain, and not doubt about the future. The truth is, if any decision has been made by the Government of Pedro Sánchez in the last fifteen months, it has not been precisely to generate certainty, but precisely to the contrary: to generate uncertainty. Because the only decision taken all this time was in the opposite direction: diverting the burden of work from Navantia Fene to take her to Cadiz, one of the platforms of an wind park; that was the only decision of the Government of Pedro Sánchez in the last fifteen months. Therefore, we of course are concerned. We're worried because, whenever the socialists ruled, the naval sector was bad in the Ferrol River. Here are the ship conversions of the 1980s, the 1990s and the first years of this century: all perpetrated by socialist governments, all destroying thousands of jobs. And now that things were going on, now that we've been working for years on a load of work for our yards, now that we've had the F-110 frigate construction project on the table, the Socialist Party has arrived and ordered us to stop. The first thing Peter Sánchez's Government did was to delay the signature of the order of execution of the frigates F-110, ten months! And, total, why? To make them match an election campaign. There is everyone with their responsibility; there is everyone. We, of course, are asking for immediate workload on the rail yards of the Ferrol River, and it is possible to do so through two mechanisms. The first is to speed up the entire project of the F-110 frigates, a project that is possible today is because there was a government that worked on it for years, developing the initial stages of definition of a new ship and developing the work that allowed it to design a ship for the Spanish Navy, but also for other armies around the world. We develop engineering, we push the project and we include shares in the general government budgets, those that approved the People's Party and those that then tried to apply — but half— the Socialist Party: two hundred and fifty-two million euros in the general state budgets by the year 2018. What did the Government of Pedro Sánchez do? Stop it, stop everything. And for what? To sign the order of execution of the ships in full campaign of general elections and municipal elections; he used that burden of work for the benefit of a party and against the workers of the naval sector. What we can ask the Socialist Government today is agility. Here we can't keep looking at each other while the government does nothing, thinking only of Pedro Sánchez's work. What about the naval workers? What do you have to wait to see if Pedro Sánchez is doing well? Do we all have to stop living and look at Pedro Sánchez because the really important thing is that Pedro Sánchez is okay? It's been fifteen months of paralysis, fifteen months with a deep responsibility! Mr. Torrado, understand I'm not at the best of the conditions to express myself. So we asked the Government to rule, because all they did was come and promise, but they didn't do anything at all. [[Laughter]] Today our shipyards in the Ferrol River would be ready to start building immediately, in weeks, an AOR for the Spanish Navy, a logistic supply ship for our army. It's just necessary for the government to take care of it; defense needs it. So that charge would give the ship's workers an immediate burden of work and certainty, and it would cover this gap from the delivery of this AOR that we made to Australia until the beginning of the plate cut of the F-110 frigate series. What we ask of the Government is a serious and firm commitment to defending a strategic sector. In Ferrol we've been building ships for over 200 years; that's what we know to do, and that's what we've dedicated the most precious thing our country has: we've dedicated all our rivers, a true seafarer, to the construction of warships and civil ships. We want to keep doing what we've been doing throughout our history. That is why we have seen this initiative today, which we believe should bring about the unanimity of the political parties, the same unanimity that has sparked throughout the whole region of Ferrolterra. We haven't come here today to fight neither the tides of Podemos -- or whatever they call themselves -- nor the rest of the parties; no. [[Murmurs.]] We want to send a clear message to the workers of the naval sector, and it is that the Galician Parliament is concerned about what can happen in Ferrol for the next two years.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u290	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u291	There are people who can't wait. We know that Pedro Sánchez only cares about Pedro Sánchez, but some people want to know if he's going to have work in September, and those people are asking us today is a clear answer. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u292	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u293	Good afternoon. We're already on the pim pam pom of bipartisanism. Mr. Tellado, finding guilty never solves anything. I agree with most of your intervention and, in fact, we hope you will support our amendment, because it complements your amendment; but we will vote in favour of your amendment because of course we agree. In fact, we proposed a virtually the same — more complete — in Commission 6a. But you can't say things that aren't true. It is not true that Mr. Sánchez raises the rights of CO2. You know that they subsat in the European Union, don't mark them Mr. Sánchez; that's how you know. Jobs are guaranteed with prevention, forecasting and previous work. That the thermal power plant of the bridges, as is the evolution for the past four years of the CO2 rights, would have little work was evident. It was clear that transporters would not have jobs every day, the one hundred and fifty -- I think they are -- trucks working on the coal route from the outer port of Ferrol to the Bridges; that could be expected. What's not logical is that we see the serious problem of these gentlemen and, in parallel yesterday, on the other hand, the associations of Welsh carriers say that there are a thousand quintuple trucks missing and that there are no truck drivers to take the trucks; yesterday the news came out: ten thousand in Spain, a thousand quintuples in Galicia. So if a government had done its work, both the Government of the United States and the Government of the State, all that would have been predictable to be solved. It is not logical that one hundred and fifty gentlemen are unemployed right now and, on the other hand, companies in the sector say they claim a thousand five hundred in Galicia alone. That's actually work to secure jobs; of course, it's work, not to blame someone. They keep saying that the PSOE government has been ten months behind the F-110s, forgetting that the former Government has stopped them for two years, and we already know why, we're not going to repeat it. It is true — and so I already thought in committee — that the AOR could be put in place in a quick but not immediate manner; neither will it be possible to cut the sheet in September, of course. In order for the AOR to cut plate in September, this had to be hired in 2017. In 2017 the previous Government, which already knew that in 2019 Navantia would be unemployed — let's say — that it wasn't engineering, without construction work, it could have already planned the AOR; it wasn't done. Obviously, it is now the responsibility of the Socialist Party's Government, and we agree to demand the urgent decision to seek work. But let's not fool people: putting this into action doesn't mean -- although it's true that engineering is fully developed -- cutting plates in September either; that's the reality. For that, the decision had to be, at least, a year and a half or two years ago. So our amendment goes on that line of progress, let's make concrete proposals. So, the first, of course, is the immediate approval of the State public labour burden, as requested by the PP's GNP, so we will vote in favour. Then, too, the involvement of the Galician Board in the direct management of Navantia — not to put itself on a profile, not only to blame, but also to make concrete proposals — at all the meetings of the Industrial Plan and its Governing Council, because we understand that if the Statute of Self-Government recognizes that it is a strategic company in Galicia, we renounce that Greek sovereignty over this type of enterprise we consider it totally unacceptable. And also, to take advantage of these months, that there will really be less activity, and that they don't get crossed by arms there, but that the productivity improvements in the yard that make it more competitive, and so don't be so dependent on state public procurement. At this last point, we would also propose three concrete proposals: on the one hand, the approval of the financing necessary for the implementation of the Industrial Plan of the 4.0 yard.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u294	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u295	Here Mr. Sánchez is completely responsible: stop electoral calculations, start ruling and provide enough for this plan. Then, immediately develop a rational schedule of entries and staff exits from the yard that guarantees the transfer of knowledge. It's essential; it can't be that, by saving a waste of money, you immediately put hundreds of people on the street with a huge baggage of experience — and I know you because I worked with them many years ago — and you don't take advantage of it to overlap with the new incorporations. And finally, speed up in Galician Union, in collaboration with the Ferrol Council, the strategies and actions to complete the environmental impact study for the dry dam of Navantia, which is absolutely crucial for the 4.0 yard to develop. These previous jobs are going to be complex, because there will be significant implications and negative impacts that must be immediately affected to find a solution or less damaging...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u296	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u297	...and that compensates justly those that are inevitable, as unfortunately it will happen to neighbours of the dry dam area. The implications will be inevitable and work must begin now; do not wait another two years and then that the problems come and we cannot put in place the 4.0 yard when Mr. Sánchez finally decides to put the money in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u298	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Pérez Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u299	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Also from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we want to show our support to all the transporters, as well as to the family of these carriers who are on their way or have arrived in Madrid, carriers who are dedicated to the transport of coal from the port of Ferrol to the thermal power station of the Bridges. [[Applause]] Mr. Tellado, you must recognize from the PP who gave the impetus to the frigate contract was a socialist government. A socialist government was the one who signed on April 23, 2019 the order of execution for the construction of five F-110 frigates for the Spanish Navy, the largest contract ever made between the Ministry of Defence and Navantia. [[Murmurs.]] The current government was not the one who delayed the shipbuilding program, as it seems to want to be evidenced in this exposition of motives presented to us in the initiative; rather quite the contrary, since it was the current Government that unlocked the program that had paralyzed Mr. Rajoy's Government. Because Mr. Rajoy's government had him stored in a drawer, so if it wasn't for a socialist government, we'd still have to wait longer for this contract to get into a fit. [[Applause]] This contract, we know, is a fundamental piece for rail yards, a project that is planned for about four thousand five hundred million euros and is expected to generate between twelve and sixteen million hours of work, with an occupation for about seven thousand workers, both directly and indirectly, over the next ten years. This will help to dynamize the region of Ferrolterra. The PP government with Mr. Rajoy in front, Mr. Tellado, has been ruling in Spain for seven years, while you were here in Galicia calaban. However, after Mr. Pedro Sánchez's motion of censure, today they are claiming to the Government of Spain everything that you have not done in seven years of PP government. In short, this initiative is a strategy of the Galician People's Party to hide what you haven't done in seven years. It must be noted that the F-110 frigates will be the first major Spanish naval program developed within the framework of the 4.0 yard, which will involve the most advanced integrated control and simulation systems. This new generation of F-110 frigates, whose construction will soon begin in the Ferrol River, stands out as having a Spanish design and a high degree of industrial and technological sovereignty. Around 80 percent of supply purchases will be made to Spanish companies. On the other hand, the company Navantia, through its strategic plan, promotes the modernization and digitization of the railway yard, moving towards the yard 4.0. This includes very ambitious investments worth a hundred and sixty-five million euros, among those that stand out for their content and immediately a new manufacturing workshop — the most modern of Navantia — that will allow you to start applying the 4.0 yard for the manufacture of the F-110 frigate subblocks, thus using the most modern techniques of shipbuilding. What the Galician People's Party has to do, and Mr. Feijóo in front of it, is to take care of its competences and to bet more decisively on the training of workers and workers who will have to incorporate Navantia and the auxiliary industry and promote dual FP, adequately financing the Ferrol Industrial Campus and promoting the Cabana Technology Center. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we have tabled the following amendment: firstly, to address the Government of Spain to ask it to continue its work in support of Navantia and, in particular, to seek new requests and charges on the international market, with the aim of ensuring sufficient workload for the Ferrol shipyard; and secondly, in the field of its competences to Junta de Galicia, in collaboration with Navantia, to develop a plan sufficiently budgeted and a timetable to promote the formation of new incorporation into the yard as well as dual training, coordination between the main company and its auxiliary companies for the training plans and development of the CIS Service Innovation Centre in the Cabana. Our vote will be in favour even if they do not accept our amendment, since the Government of Spain is looking for new orders for the shipyards of the Ferrol River. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u300	Thank you, Mr. Pérez Seco. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u301	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. "Navantia has to offer alternatives to its Ferrol-Fene shipyards to guarantee short- and medium-term workload." So begins the explanatory statement of the PNL that brings us to the debate by the People's Party on the workload of Navantia. Yes, all clear and all agreed, because the burden of work in Navantia began a few months ago with the arrival of the Socialist Government; it's not like it's been years and years debating between life and death, with Navantia, the whole territory of Ferrolterra. Besides, the People's Party has never had government responsibilities in the state and has always been on the side of the workers of Ferrol. Wow!, we all saw the posters of the People's Party leading hundreds of mobilizations that defended and defended life in Ferrol and in the neighborhood. Because no one would have noticed until now that, in that two-year impasse that goes between the stitching and delivery of the two logistic support ships and the beginning of the construction of the F-110 frigates, the people of Navantia and their auxiliary companies were left to sail. With the kick of the first of those ships, about four hundred workers will be unemployed, and up to the delivery of the second will be a constant drop, i.e., more of those four hundred. Now there are auxiliary companies that have begun to fire workers. That's why it's urgent to make every effort to keep Navantia active in those two years. And remember, so that there is no mistake, both the People's Party of Galicia and the Socialist Party of Galicia: we are talking about Navantia Ferrol, and Ferrol is currently in Galicia. And we talked, like one of the possible, of the construction of a new logistic support ship that would give work for about thirty-two months; the works could begin immediately because it would be made. This or any other burden of work — I repeat, this or other burden of work — because we're talking about not deriving jobs to the south, as it has been done and is coming to do. That's where the vocation of the political forces is checked and what they defend. For you two, it's a simple numerical account of voting potential: Andalusia, eight million voters; Galicia, less than three. For us it's a matter of country, of rights to demand from this shortcut. There are political forces that have roots scattered throughout the state, and we have to comply with all of them, and there are only ties here. The Galician Union did not firmly defend the Welsh naval or with PP governments or with PSOE governments. Mr. Conde, the People's Party Industry Advisor, came to show his concern; the emphasis on the Board was all too much. But in addition, in this matter it is necessary to investigate the delay in the construction of the F-110 frigates, because we have the right to know what happened. It is necessary to forward all the timely information to the Council of Galicia and to transfer to the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office for the study of possible criminal actions. Are you ready to do this? There is still more, because their GNP is those of good apparent intentions and that, because they are apparent, they accomplish nothing. So let us say: will you claim the need to recover for Navantia the civil construction? Because Navantia is enbodyed in the military market, and this will end the yard and the comarca. Navantia can't give up other jobs in the wind field, repairs, turbines, she can't give up anything. And you, what, are they moving on about this? Because we, the BNG, also with Navantia, can't give up the political weight that we should have and that we won't even have with you. Finally, Mr. Tellado, the urgent need for modernization is to make that yard 4.0 real. Since the BNG we immediately demand the investments announced at the time to modernize the Navantia facilities in the Ferrol River, so that it will be back on the map of the shipbuilding with its presence. It's not, therefore, about scrapes for patching, flaps for pulling and scraping until their ability wane so much that there are justified reasons for another blow of death to the comarca that adds to the disastrous industrial plan. Make sure you're clear, you're compromised. Is it that hard?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u302	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u303	Thank you, President. If we approached the People's Party's initiative without taking its context into account, we would have little to object. Who will be against securing the workload of the Navantia shipyard? However, the initiative is not innocent, it is never innocent. It is presented today and not before, because its aim is not to protect the employment of the ferrola industry - while it has the government's responsibilities to do so - but, as always, to campaign. Why would we say that? Because the facts show that Navantia only cares about the People's Party when there are elections on the horizon. There are two clear examples. First of all, if we look at the initiatives that the People's Party has put forward in the current legislation on Navantia, we see a very curious fact: there is not a single initiative that was registered before October 31, 2018; otherwise, they did not register a single initiative on Navantia during Mariano Rajoy's last mandate to urge the Central Government to remember that in Galicia there is a region that lives from the construction of ships. Today they came, as many other times, to spread their campaign propaganda and try to wash the face of their mismanagement of industrial policy, which is leaving this country becoming a real waste for industry. Today the People's Party tells us that you are very concerned about Navantia, and you have reason to be, because all the workers and workers, who see a dark horizon and therefore carry numerous mobilizations, ignored again and again by this government. You have reason to be concerned and, of course, you have responsibility, because Navantia, the Navantia public company, has long suffered from the worst management of a People's Party that has given up a long time ago to intervene to safeguard a strategic sector with enormous potential for our country. The second example is: instead of real investments, what the People's Party leaves us with regard to Navantia are always electoral lies that have never come true; we could talk about the floating dike, of the phantom contracts with Pemex, etc. So many lies that it is not easy to have the exact number of boat construction promises that we were going to have in Galicia that made Feijóo since the spring of 2012; announcements that only two of them were real — and there were more than twenty — and those today we have to add charges of corruption that the Mexican authorities have just launched against some of the former oil directors most involved in the contacts with Galicia: Emilio Lozoya, Carlos Roa or José Manuel Carrera Panizzo, other dangerous friends of Mr Feijóo. You'll be sure of what Mr. Tellado likes to talk about: that Feijóo, if he can have a dangerous friend, he'll have it. The data there are: significant sales falls and workloads, high level of indebtedness, heritage imbalance and the greatest losses in their history. For this reason, this group has long claimed public actions decided both in this parliament and in the State Courts. We can remember that on 21 March 2017 the Congress of Deputies approved by an absolute majority a non-law proposal put forward by our parliamentary group that, in addition to demanding the realization and implementation of the Navantia Strategic Plan, called for the company's strategic activities to be defined in view of its ability to diversify the supply. In his day we also demanded that the development of the industrial plan should be done with great attention to the new needs of the yard 4.0 What do we mean by this? That, of course, we have no reason to oppose the content of the popular initiative. Welcome to the defense space of the workers and workers of Ferrolterra, welcome to assume the demands we have seen articulating from the opposition all groups of the House with very little collaboration from their band. Let's get to work with the country's industry and see if this one isn't just rhetorical. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u304	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u305	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Chao, you don't know, honestly. I, in fact, have to tell you that I understand that your attitude responds, above all, to that feeling of complicity to the Government of Pedro Sanchez and that you have to look for any kind of explanation not to mention what you have done by the naval sector. Do you know what you guys did through the naval sector? Nothing, they've never done anything; that's reality. Mr. Rivas, as I'd say in the campaign that the Rural Councillory is doing, you're very high and I'm very seafaring. Whenever you want, I'll explain Ferrol's problems and invite you to visit the area. I think it would be nice for him to know that we are the ones who reopened Astano — we are the People's Party — and that we are the ones who diversifyed the naval sector with the marine wind; we are the ones! So I understand that you took advantage of the circumstances to sell that discourse of decimonic nationalism. But we always bet — always! — on the naval sector from the People's Party of Galicia. [[Applause]] Look: Do you know that the socialists have done nothing more to reach the Government of Spain? Remove a ship engineer who presided over Navantia to set up a mountain engineer. That's what the Socialist Party is concerned about in the naval sector. I regret, Mr. Casal, that it is still too hard for you to criticize the Socialist Party and prefer to criticize us. But look: here everyone knows what he does and each one knows what he has done. When we arrived at the Government in 2011, Ferrol's creek had zero contracts, zero!; zero contracts were what left Zapatero during his last five years of government. What did we do? The fleet contract: one hundred and seventy-five million euros, one hundred and fifty thousand hours of workload; the contract for the design and equipment of an LHD for the Turkish Navy: one hundred and forty million euros, eight hundred thousand hours of workload; the construction of a BAM — maritime action vessel — for the Spanish Navy: one hundred and seven million euros of billing, one hundred and ten thousand hours of workload; in the marine wind — that you laugh, especially — 29 jackets for Iberdrola: ninety million euros in Fene, which was closed when we arrived in the Government and opened it ourselves; a second contract for the manufacture of forty and two new jackets for Iberdrola, and another of five floating macrostructures. We returned the burden of work where the Socialist Party left misery and unemployment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u306	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u307	Our proposal is very clear and should encourage unanimity. I regret the attitude of the Socialist Party of Galicia, a preached Socialist Party which, when it has to choose between Pedro Sánchez and Galicia, always elects Pedro Sánchez; that is the reality. Too bad, Mr. Pérez Seco, that you have to go back to Ferrolterra to explain what your position is and justify who has never done anything.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u308	About the amendments, how do I know about the amendments?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u309	We believe that the text that we present collects a unanimous feeling in the district of Ferrolterra and that's what we're going to keep. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u310	Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Monserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the German Government in relation to the closing of beds during the summer months in the Sergas hospital and the derivation of patients to private health
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u311	There's an amendment from the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[G. P. Mixto, at the initiative of Mrs Paula Vázquez Verao, through her spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislation.Additional amendment.A new point should be added to the resolution with the following text: "—Translate to the Galician Parliament, within a maximum of 3 months, a report on the beds and health resources closed in the summer of 2019, as well as the detailed reports to justify such closures."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u312	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u313	Good afternoon. Today the BNG brings again the situation of public health in our country, the situation that one day does, and also the newspapers in our country, where professionals and patients are alarming, alerting and complaining about the situation in which health care is being provided, because the People's Party, year after year, will see after year, close again an abusive number of beds in the Greek hospitals this year, around the thousand beds. For example: in the Vigo area, twenty percent of the existing ones; in particular, in the Mexoeiro they close whole plants — sixty percent — and they become closed for three months three hundred thirty beds, and in the Cunqueriro, whole candles. In Monforte, twenty-eight beds of Internal Medicine, this leads to the redistribution of patients by other plants, including those of Maternity and Pediatrics. In the Navy, thirty beds. In the CHUAC, two hundred and twenty-three, in addition to those blocked in special services, such as ICU or resuscitation, which obviously cannot be closed, but they are left in the middle of gas. In Santiago, one hundred ten beds in Conxo from July 2nd to August 2nd, besides twelve surgeons in the CHUS of Santiago. At Salnés Hospital, they went from closing the third whole floor to, this year, alternatively closing beds on different plants: in July, twelve beds in the second; in August, twelve beds in the first; in September, twelve beds again in the second; now yes, the September no opening date, as we have been accustomed, which is theoretically the reason for staff vacations, but the staff vacations and beds are closed. In Pontevedra, above the 60s at the CHOP. And in Lugo, whole units: whole medicine, a batburrillo plant where Trauma, Otorrino and Neurology is located; and they close Palliative three months, curious, where there are professionals specialized in caring for these patients, they completely close the plant. It is clear that this situation is not harmless; however much it insists, it is not harmless and has consequences in all areas. It has consequences in the area of care, because it is clear that fewer operating resources cannot pay the same attention to the population; it will mean a greater difficulty for access to health services. Paralyzing surgical activity at best in certain cases could be understood to be closed; what is no longer understandable is why internal medicine, urology or other specialties should be closed. Is that what it's about? Well, to an overload of work and to mix patients in plants -- as I said before -- where there are different pathologies, one more infectious than others, including mixing with issues such as pediatrics or Maternity, which, of course, are not received. It increases the risk of entering these plants; of course, it increases the care pressure of the professionals, who for the care of patients have to go through several plants; and of course they increase the waiting lists, those waiting lists that have become used to not publishing, publishing only the structural ones and not paying attention to what happens. They publish the structures and the rest are empty by putting them in the mailbox. Because the lists that are published are the surgical ones and the first consultations, with which they are prepared to give the first consultation, but then the diagnostic tests, the revisions and the subsequent consultations turn out that, as they don't count on the waiting list, they're going to stay in what they call the mailbox. And, of course, the consequences have names and names; the consequences have flesh and bone people who suffer from these issues. I'm going to read only the reference to a medium of communication of a situation that happened at the end of last month and was made public in the media, specifically in my territory, in Salnes: a patient explained to the media that he was outraged, because it turns out that in February 2018 he took his wheel to Cita Previa to be quoted and, from that moment on, he said textually to Sergas: "We acquired the commitment to schedule his appointment as soon as possible, communicate to him the date on which he will be addressed, by mail or by telephone, and warn him in advance." The point is, they don't warn you. February 2018, an evaluation of Urology after being operated as a prostate, and without saying; we're in July 2019 and you don't know anything about when they're going to quote it. Of course, this isn't on the waiting list because it's a follow-up consultation. So, a person who had to be called to review and to see evidence has been waiting for a year and four months, but it's not on any waiting list; with which, the public health officials in our country can come here saying that they have splendid and magnificent waiting lists. To this we added another case: Antonio was operated with cataracts and during the operation he was discovered a glaucoma; he had to do controls and they told him that he had to be seen in six months; the six months passed in March and it turns out that they told him that, as soon as it was for October. Sure, what do the patients say? What is it that it is unbearable to be living day itself and day also with the uncertainty of whether they are ill, whether they are worsening their health situation or what is happening, because if their specialist tells them they want to see them in six months, why are they going to see them in a year and a half or two years? It's not receipt. What do they say? That they are tired of Sergas denying them the existence of waiting lists when they suffer them in flesh and bone. These are two examples from the Salnés district; we could put thousands, because that's the reality of our country. What other consequence is there of closing devices? Well, the increase in waiting lists or the collapse of emergencies. Emergency collapses are a direct consequence of this closure of beds; patients are stacked in corridors in conditions that attack people's privacy and dignity. We can set the example of the CHUAC de la Coruña, denounced a few days ago. There were patients who waited up to 72 hours to get them a bed to get in, 72 hours! Nothing, it's okay, it's statistics. For the People's Party they're statistics. But no, they're meat and bone people. What is the other consequence of this? Well, the pressure goes down, towards the health center and towards the CAP. If people are not cared for, it goes where it considers it might have some kind of response, and collapses this resource as well. Professionals have another consequence, because they are paying attention that citizenship perceives as precarious, that they are not well cared for. And for professionals, it's frustrating. It's frustrating not to be able to meet population conditions. The drainage of emergency patients is not guaranteed to units where they need to be hospitalized. And that, of course, is unacceptable for patients, for families and for the same professionals. It also has labour implications, of course: the pressure of health professionals. I mean, he doesn't hire, and there's professionals on the recruitment lists, but the popular party's excuse is that there's no. We can accept that there are not optional or optional in certain specialties, but in the rest there are, and they don't. There are 800 hospital beds less since 2009 in Galicia, 10%, and they have increased beds in private centers. They close their beds in public hospitals and don't close their beds in private hospitals. That's why the BNG brings here this initiative, in which we demand it is not to close hospital units, to carry out the recruits and replacements needed for staff not to proceed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u314	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u315	...to close the beds, to have all the resources available to Sergas — cams, surgery — and not to make drifts, to end the practice of getting out of waiting lists those who don't want to go to private, to end up in the mailbox when they are successive consultations, to return to the structural waiting lists the people who have been taken from them and to present to Parliament a report of what is the situation of private derivation. Of course, what we demand is measures. They are measures because, of course, taking measures is not to move the executives of public policy on site, to spread the problems. It doesn't work out by changing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u316	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u317	Mr. Rubial from Vigo to Ourense, from Santiago to Vigo and from Vigo to Ourense, spreading the problem. It's not solved by extending the precarious contracts, which were for doctors, also for...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u318	Thank you, thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u319	...infirmary, and it doesn't solve itself by announcing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u320	Your time is up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u321	...questions for within four years, such as home hospitalization. Specific issues are addressed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u322	Thank you. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u323	Well, year by year we saw the same question: these locks of systematic beds. And above all, Junta is unable to explain what are the reasons for each of the closures, both of beds and of services. This year — it has been exposed here — the Union will close around 900 beds in Sergas by bringing organizational work or works in the centers. But this does not justify all closures. We certainly understand that certain bed closures can respond to specific cases of the availability of specialized professionals or to the need for works and remodeling, but we are talking about a massive and systematic closure that only responds to the desire to save resources and not to hire professionals. And, in this case, it is mainly about nursing professionals, assistants or celliers and janitors. Monforte, 28 beds; Burela, 9 beds traumatized and 12 closed by works; Santiago, these 12 surgeons closed in the EOXI set; in HULA, plants like internal medicine and palliatives; Pontevedra, 80 beds; or Salnés, 33. We could go on, but it's not understandable that in the summer months, beds are systematically cut off and, ultimately, the care activity is cut off. Because it is not understandable that ordinary activity is not being programmed in external consultations, diagnostic tests and certain non-emergency surgical interventions, precisely also to reduce these waiting lists. Instead, what encourages this closure of beds and services is private derivations in certain hospitals, such as those mentioned by Burela or Monforte. And it also increases the transfer of patients from these districts to HULA. It is also evident the incidence of increasing the saturation of emergency services by setting another example beyond what has been put here. In the architect Marcide, he pointed out a person who had his grandfather 60 hours waiting to be transferred to the plant from the emergency room. The same is true of the influence this has on CAP and health centres; and, above all, because in certain places of tourist affluence they also close in the afternoon of the CAP and health centres, which is what also contributes to that saturation of emergencies. On the other hand, it has also been exposed — and this problem is constantly being moved to this House — that the summer will make it difficult for the staff to work. Why? Because vacations are not properly covered, because patients with different specialities are mixed into one unit and, at the same time, staff from different areas without experience on the plant itself. Work is difficult, and it also unites that professionals are not hired enough, and this increases the unemployment of health workers. We also agree that it is essential that this House knows the magnitude of the waiting lists, also having the data on that non-structural waiting list, and end this practice of penalizing people who oppose being derived from private centres or other different hospitals. We agree with that question. The amendment we tabled has to do with the fact that, as Junta continuously does not adequately justify the closure of all bed units and does not explain the care reasons that have to do with this, we propose that this report be moved by the Board on private derivations, a detailed report on what is the justification for each closure. Because we're constantly talking about these remodelings, but the works do not justify all the closures, the systematic closures of the summer. So even if our amendment had not been accepted, of course we're going to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u324	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u325	Thank you, President. Indeed, once again we debate this question which, from our group, we have already brought about a full past. Understanding that, in the face of the persistence of a closed service policy, and not only of the beds, but also of what it has to do with diagnostic tests and also with the cuts in the coverage of primary care holidays by the Health Council, it was necessary to know the official data of the non-structural waiting lists. And once again, we voted against the enforcement of the law, the rules which, as we have explained, contain the Parliament's Rules of Procedure and the Autonomy Statute itself, which requires Members and Members to be given the information required to do their work. We've been waiting for two and a half years for the answer to a request to the aberration of article 9, of repeated legal non-compliance by the Galician Union, and, once again, today we are asking for this information. And precisely when this happened, and in this House it was voting against giving coverage to permits, casualties and vacations during these months as long as there was sufficient staff and there was a waiting list, and while, indeed, by the People's Party once again it was grappling that all beds were not needed, there were already the first news of problems in the emergency services of hospitals — which, by the way, if you pay attention to the data of the consultations in recent years, is increasing in a way I believe that the proportion of consultations that are given in the fruity emergencies, in fact, of the cut in other services that end by concentrating the care pressure in these units. It's something you can see, and here's an example, also with the information that came to us from Ferrol, those people who had been waiting for 60 hours for a bed in the architect Marcide. It happened this week just after it was denied in this House that closing the beds was unjustified, as it is. The reality is that, despite this and despite the continuing conflict within the Galician Health Service, the People's Party continues to make deaf ears. And when the occasional staff protests continue in the face of extreme precariousness, they take out of their sleeve a garbage contract that has been refused first by medical professionals. And I'm talking about that dirty contract that professionals and professionals and trade unions don't want because, of course, it only perpetuates a model of precariousness in which professionals have to be at the disposal of the Galego Health Service, the Health Council, 24 hours and 365 days of the year. We don't want more precariousness, we don't want more excuses. The Galician Union has to take out the competition the existing squares and stop inventions. The reality is, you can't admit any more precariousness. It has already been rejected by medical professionals and is being rejected by nursing professionals. And, of course, as the only one who publicly collected that popular party star proposal was rejected by the professionals, when this issue was denounced, this week brought out a movement of change from the managers. It is an absolute shame that I understand that the Health Counsellor will have to explain at some point in this House, and that he explains to us why he keeps a person accused of alleged reckless murder in front of an agency. Just what you do is you change it and move it, in this case, to Ourense. He's a person with absolute inability, manifest inability, to manage issues and problems of a work nature. We've seen him in the conflict of captors and captors, we've seen him in the conflict of nursing assistants, and we're seeing him in the primary care conflict, in which his lack of diligence led to the resignation of more than 25 chiefs and chiefs of primary care. And as that didn't work and they were already giving themselves the first saturations in emergency services, they take out of their sleeve an ad of home hospitalization for all of them; a reality, an ad of something, which can't be given because, as their lordships know, or at least the health spokespersons, or home hospitalization is for all patients, it doesn't even solve a bed close situation. If not, ask those people who've been waiting for 60 hours in the emergency room for a bed in a hospital.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u326	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u327	This reality — and I will finish now — will only be resolved when the Galician Union puts all the human resources needed to return quality to health services. We're going to support this non-law proposal, and of course we call second that Friday's mobilisations, so they're going back out in the street at 12 o'clock in the morning against the precariousness of garbage contracts in the Galician Health Service.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u328	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u329	Thank you, Mr. President. "There is not always fraudulent recruitment in Sergas," this is the new great pearl of the autonomous policy of the Health Council. Fraudulent recruitment in Sergas does not always occur. It's all a relief. It doesn't always happen. Which is why, even those who are bad students, intellectual papalatas and all these things, we are able to infer that ever happens. Now we're just left to know how much. I mean, there's an implicit, or explicit, recognition that Sergas hires fraudulently. It's not good for the judges to say it, that they already say it, but at last the government assumes that it hires fraudulently. But why does it have to do with this? Because this is the problem of Galicia's health system: that Sergas hires little and, when he does, does it in law fraud. And it announces a lot but hires little, hires part-time and exploits full-time. They are professionals of exploitation, this is Galician health system we have. And if we have to defend an EOXI manager by saying he's the best in the world, he defends himself. And if next week you have to throw it out and see if they get us to the professionals, because it's out. Because principles, few. And if we have to announce a home hospitalization now, which has been refused for years saying that we don't understand the system, because now it's announced. And if we have to announce a hospital stay at home without announcing more professional ones, because it's announced. And if you have to close your beds, then yes, many of them are locked. Why? Because that means you don't have professionals to attend to them. We are used to those who usually take part in Commission 5 to listen as a mantra, with a certain disparity and even with an almost despicable tone — and even paternalist at times — that do not close their beds. Of course, the beds are there, they're actually all year round. And half the year—not in the summer, eh!, but in the middle of the year—many of them remain closed. What does it mean to be closed? Closed means they cannot be used. And why can't they be used? Because there's no staff. How are we going to take people, patients, to a plant where there's no staff? Well, this is the following invention by Sergas, the self-management of health: we put a bed in it and you're getting yourself self-management. Because they're capable of not hiring staff. Where others see an opportunity to improve the system — for example, by taking advantage of it to do or to release the waiting lists, those that do not count but have, taking advantage of them to make many more interventions, to be able to receive or pass first consultations much more, where we can have a gap or space to implement new measures, to optimize the situation of the system, the People's Party sees an opportunity to cut. Because they're extremely diligent and, as soon as there's some data that can allow you to interpret that you can cut, they cut. Now, I hope they were so efficient to, as soon as there's a high demand for staff, increase more. Because, when it goes down in summer, then we reduce personnel; but when it goes up the flu in winter, no, it won't be! Because getting up pays, and paying public service staff is a problem, especially if you have to do it legally. Because, of course, it is much better to do it in law fraud, although — we know — there is not always fraudulent recruitment in Sergas. Not always, sometimes yes. It's all a lie except something. Fraudulent recruitment does not always occur. There's a personal problem, and this is the problem that leads to these problems: that we have closed beds, because it's an opportunity to hire less; that we have waiting lists problems, because we don't have enough professionals; that you can make ads -- it's just the same as where they go out, because then someone will work, that's never known. And that staff problem leads to a precaution greater than 25%. That leads us to have very high hidden waiting lists — that you never want to tell but that they are there, that we all know. That led us to have a close of upper beds every year arguing — like a fantastic fishfish — that last year there was less use of hospital services. There are no professionals, they care less professionals, and as last year they've been less professional, this one's still going to reduce a little bit more. And if we take all the professionals out, nobody goes to the hospitals. And I don't want to give them any ideas. No one's going to hospitals! But let's see if we can do the opposite.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u330	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u331	Let's put more and see how then we are able to get work forward and release the work that Sergas has accumulated. And then we'll show that the reverse phenomenon also occurs. Read it in economic terms, it's a matter of supply and demand. But read it in a good way, not in the sense of cutting but in the other: we're going to implement, we're going to provide more professional, this is the opportunity. We have a staff problem and whoever doesn't want to see it is undermining the health system, which is what's going on. And from that point on, we will support all the initiatives that defend, as in this case, the increase in resources. Because we have a resource problem, especially staff, in the public health system in Galicia. And to see if we're able that there's ever been any fraudulent recruitment in the system instead of listening to what doesn't always happen, which doesn't always happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u332	Thank you. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u333	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. Today we are attending the fourth season of the "Peche de Beds" series, which has annual chapters in plenary, commission 5th and even in the Permanent Deputy; that is, it is annual and repeated. But, look, Mrs Prado, I have nothing to change to the statement in Commission 5 last year before an initiative which is exactly the same as it is presented today in the explanatory statement. Well, I lie, he added 23 words at the beginning of the explanatory statement and then added other considerations in the final part of the resolution. And today repeats it textually, and I have to repeat the same thing I told you at last year's commission. I will take three points on the subject of the initiative which have also been repeated in this Chamber. First of all, if the beds are not closed, they are suitable or not as needed. And that's not paternalism, Mr. Torrado, that's reality. The second is that planning and efficiency imply adapting resources to needs. And the third is that the needs were objected to indicators, data and figures. The occupation of beds in recent summers has risen to 75%, and Sergas will keep this year — approximately like last year — 88.3% of the total Greek beds — the same as last year. And all of you, ladies and gentlemen, know that in summer there is less morbidity by chronic diseases, that there is an important part of the staff who takes their statutory vacations, to whom they are entitled, and who takes advantage — as Mrs Vázquez Verao has acknowledged — to make reforms and maintenance in hospital units. But, look, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Galicia is the same as that of the rest of the health services of all autonomous communities, the government that governs. For example, this year Andalusia closes 1,800 beds. They look a lot, but the past was 2,400 and the previous 2,600 and it didn't rule the People's Party in Andalusia. Valencia, 3,000; Catalonia, 1,900; Madrid, 1,400; and Balearics, Castile-A Mancha, Murcia, Castela-León, Navarra, Cantabria, Aragon and, of course, Galicia disable beds. And they decrease the number of working beds to suit the real needs of this period and the shortage of personnel — fundamentally medical personnel — that occurs in the summer. And all these autonomous communities what they do is responsible management. Each of the health care agencies of the Galego Health Service establishes summer planning in hospitalization as well as management of staff vacations to avoid prejudices in the care of citizens. And it's done months in advance, it's asked for vacations months in advance, to try to reduce the difficulty of covering certain squares, especially now in primary care. Absences of staff should be covered, and covered, whenever the assistance demands and the availability of staff permits it, always ensuring, as I said, the health of citizens. With regard to the point of privatization and referral to concerted centres, I have little to add to the manifesto in recent interventions. After that prophecy, the Health Insurance Act would become private or would take all citizens to private, it turns out that, after more than a year, not a single person was cared for, fulfilling the Safeguards Act, in a single private center. The prophecy has become falsity. And in addition to last year's initiative, which, as I said, is cut or copied and pasted, Mrs Prado added the subject of the waiting lists. And on that subject I wanted to say that the waiting lists in Galicia are the best in the historical series and are among the best in Spain, both in surgery and in consultation or in evidence. With regard to the non-structural lists, I believe that the Group's position was clearly expressed in the debate of the motion of the En Marea Group in the previous plenary session. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the Galego Health Service plans the working beds according to the expected needs. This year there is forecast to have enabled 88.3% of the total beds in the public hospitals in Greece, which had an average occupation last summer of 75%.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u334	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u335	If necessary, if necessary, bedstyles are arranged, as has happened when it failed; or even in special situations, as it could be in the Angrois accident. And I think all of you, ladies and gentlemen on both sides of the bench, all of you, know perfectly well the difficulty that exists for the replacement of optional professionals in many specialties. We are certainly not going to support the initiative. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u336	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u337	I want to start by thanking the support expressed by the Group of En Marea and the Socialist Party. And I want to say that we are going to support the amendment tabled by the Joint Group, because we believe that it actually improves the text. And indeed, it's an initiative that claims the same things as a year ago. And I'm afraid within a year he'll be equally active. I'm afraid you'll remain vigilant because you're not solving anything at all, Mr. Núñez Centeno. You just said they adapt the resources to the needs. No, they adapt people's needs to resources, and they give weight assistance: so far we've come here, and from here, we don't respond. That's the reality. I was saying to you in the previous intervention — which has not given me time — that what you have to do is take action, that you cannot afford to spread the problems, that you do not have to change the executioners of your policies, such as the former Director General of Health Care, Félix Rubial, who took you out of the General Directorate after the case of your nefarious performance with the theme of hepatitis C. They take you to the EOXI de Vigo and they have a terrible performance, act on their backs turned absolutely to all professionals, makes a real disaster, and it turns out that the solution they give is to move Atila to Ourense. That's the solution for you: you're spreading evil through the village. That's not how the problems are solved! Just as problems are not solved by extending this precarious contract that the optional ones refused, which they were told is not the solution because the precarious solution is not solved by contracts that generate more precariousness. And now they're trying to extend it to the nurse, who's already telling them that they don't accept that contract either, because all they're supposed to do is consolidate that precariousness. That disease has a temporality of the highest in the state, has a temporality among Sergas professionals of 30%. And 90 percent of the nursing staff surveyed said they felt precarious though, perhaps, that some of them had a stable contract, that they were stabilized. Because the terrible situation in which they have to work considers it to be a precarious situation. So they don't, of course, solve problems, or much less. And on the arguments, the same thing. It goes down, of course. If they close their beds, if there are no surgeons, if there are no professionals, how will there be activity? But it's just that you're playing to make a trap so tight that even a two-year-old boy is capable of detecting it, Mr. Núñez Centeno. No professionals, no beds, no surgeries, no... how will there be activity? Of course, that's the basis for calculating next year's activity. It's just that he's a little dumb, I think he's a little dumb. About the staff vacations, do you want to tell me that, in the nursing recruitment lists, TCAE, the janitors, there's no staff to hire? You know you do! Over! Over! Then they lie more than they speak. I mean, by doing the same, they can't expect different results. We make a series of proposals: take advantage of the summer, because there is no activity, to download the waiting list...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u338	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u339	...to hire the staff needed for all categories, to give them solutions to the problems people have and not to derive from the private sector or favor the private business.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u340	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u341	I want to finish -- if you give me half a second, president -- by saying that you just skip the news that Povisa, in its objectives, has pointed out that there is a need to reduce the performances — consulting, testing and interventions — in Sergas patients who do not bring added value to taking advantage of this release of resources to improve more and more time to devote them to private patients.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u342	Is this your model, gentlemen of the People's Party?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u343	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u344	This is the model of closing resources...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-09-DSPG123.u345	Thank you. Your time is up. [[Applause]] Thank you. Your time is up. We have to start adapting to the times; otherwise, this is going to be very bad. We'll have to start adjusting more. [[Murmurs.]] Today it was proof, but from now on we're going to be a little bit tighter. You'll find out. Look how we're going! Anyway, till tomorrow at ten o'clock.
