ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u1	Good morning. Let's restart the session. Before you begin with the agenda items, excuse the in attendance of this full White Lady Noela. I also welcome the 2nd ESO students from the centre of the Toural, in Vilaboa, also their teachers and all the guests who are today, who accompany us in the gallery of Parliament. We begin with point 6, which corresponds to questions for the President's oral answer. First of all, the question is put to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u2	The truth was that I was first registered today with the spokesperson for the En Marea Group. I don't have any problems, but the order of the record is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u3	He's right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u4	I don't have any problems...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u5	He's right. No, no, he's right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u6	...it's for not changing and not creating precedents in the House, which you know will then load the devil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u7	He's right. I'll explain what happened. Besides, the mistake is mine because, just like the services of the House passed me, they passed me right, and I just pulled the sheet off of the question I was asking and walked it because it's the turn they always do. So, indeed, excuses, excuses, excuses, my fault. The House's services acted correctly, I apologize. So, first of all, the question has to be put, indeed, Mr Villares, of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. in Marea, on the impact of the management of the Government of Greece on industrial policy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u8	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u9	Good morning, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez, the Middle Rural Counsellor was now asking about these shirts that they put on Polygal, to see what this means. So we're going to have to do some pedagogy. I begin by saying hello to the workers of Poligal and Bosch who accompany us today in this plenary session. I'm starting with Bosch, explaining that Bosch is, in addition to a household appliances company, a gigantic teleoperator company that, specifically in the Vigo metropolitan area, employs more than 2,000 people, thus the second company, by number of workers, the most important in the Vigo metropolitan area itself. This company has just put out 200 people hired through an ETT and has just announced an ERE of more than 80 people. We've been together with them several times, and last week, last week, we told them if they wanted to transfer something directly to the president of the Galician Union, but we warned them that we only had three minutes. So, the workers told us that in three minutes they had enough time to sell to the president of Galicia's board a router, a 100 mega wifi and even a Thermomix. Up to that point are good and efficient teleoperators. It takes me one minute to sell the good work they do, first of all, because they're the best teleoperators in Europe: they're the highest productivity index, they're the most persuasive and they're able to do their job better. That is why this sector employs more than 10,000 people in Galicia right now. Secondly, it's the ones that have the best technical training and the ones that are best prepared to be able to offer that service, from there that productivity data. And finally, because they are multilingual, because they offer service in Spanish, but they also offer it in our own language, and besides, they speak several languages, so they perform a service that is hardly comparable in the rest of Europe. The question that we ask ourselves is: What is the prize for this professional excellence? The precariousness of work. That's the answer. It's the abuse of the work of an absolutely precarious sector. To say teleoperator, as well as to say waitress, is to know that they are subject to high precaution and, of course, to the highest business fraud. Secondly, they make part-time contracts, but with such a high number of hours that they don't allow them to have a second job contract. Besides, with so low wages, they don't allow them to arrive in trouble at the end of the month. They deal with them through temporary work companies, with which they earn third parties from their own work, and all of this in a deeply feminized sector, where, once again, women are the weak link of the productive chain and the labor chain. All this, while companies like Bosch, but also Watch or Extel, continue to maximize their profits. What's going on in the meantime? What's happening right now is the business relocation of this service to Egypt or Colombia, when this service actually lends itself better than anywhere else in Galicia itself. A relocation that is something that is not exclusive heritage of Bosch, but also of Polygal, so we bring your claims here today too. Poligal, in Ferrolterra, was a symbol, after industrial conversion, that it was possible to do work with innovation, development and research, create skilled industrial work, and so it was wagered, even budgeted, by subsidies for companies like Poligal, who are now leading in Europe. What is the counterpoint to this industrial excellence that I assumed and suppose Poligal today? First of all, by the company, the relocation to Portugal and Poland, in factories of the group that were fed and formed in Narón, taking their technology, our technology, paid and subsidized with public money, abroad. Secondly, he ended up leaving a hundred and twenty working people and their families in the street without giving them a future or a future. Thirdly, to defray public administrations, as a result of having taken subsidies and now to relocate production. And finally cheated the workers, because already in 2012 they suffered an ERE and they accepted, firstly, the reduction of jobs and, secondly, being several months without charging in exchange for the company itself to make investments that it never did.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u10	Finish, please. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u11	And all for what? So that an entrepreneur has long and high corporate profits, because the company is not currently in a broken situation. So the question we ask him is very clear. Where's the Galician Union to defend the teleoperators? Where's the Galician Union to defend industrial employment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u12	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u13	Where is the Galician Union to fight business relocation and defend the quality of industrial employment and services in Galicia, Mr. Núñez? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u14	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If you want to change the formulation of questions according to your interests, it's legitimate, but my duty is to answer the questions posed to me in the Journal of Sessions. You're talking about whether or not you're deciding on our industrial policy. Mr. Villares, I'm glad, in front of the police workers, that you're talking about industrial policy. It's very important for everyone to know that you and your group, or group mixes up, about industrial policy. Workers must know that in this Chamber the closure — of course — of Reganosa, that Meirama was closed, that The Bridges were closed, that Ence was closed, that no solution had been left to expand the PSA-Peugeot-Citroën and that we closed the aerospace pole of Rozas. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's the industrial proposal for the tides of Podemos. The result of this industrial proposal is to close companies that account for twenty-seven thousand jobs. Therefore, the industrial policy of the tides of Podemos is to close companies in Galicia and send to the streets 27,000 families. So, what do you say about industrial desire, what do you mean? Is it the decision of the tides, supporting the industrial policies of the Socialist Party ruling in Madrid in a parliamentary coalition? Are you referring to these industrial policies? Look, since we've been in Galicia, in the last four years, for example, they've been created in Galicia 19,200 jobs in industry; 19,200. Why? Because we support 8,000 companies and because they benefited from more than 758 million mobilized. Because we have passed legislation: the Entrepreneurship Act, the Industrial Implementation Act, with vote against tides. Because we ask the municipalities to lower taxes. No tide council has been taxed in Galicia. We bet on business solo policy. We received the broken gestures after the Bipartite, we had to inject 160 million euros and we were able to sell a million and a half square meters with bonuses of between 30% and 50%, and now we're selling a million more square meters. When we got to the government, we had the socialist lease tax, which was to close the shipyards in Galicia. Well, today we've turned around, we've earned that price, and we've managed to get 49% of the total ship contracts in Spain to be Welsh, and right now we have twenty-seven contracts on the Greek shipyards. We bet on the growth of the automobile. You voted against expanding Citroën's facilities in Vigo, and despite that, we've taken out that law, you've created two thousand five hundred jobs in recent years, and in the next three, four thousand jobs will be created, and there's been a decade of work in the automotive sector. We bet on the aeronautical sector against their votes. At present we have created 200 jobs in the aviation sector and we have planned 500 jobs more. Your Honor, in effect, what are we accused of? From creating more than nineteen thousand jobs in the industry and, on the other hand, that you want to close more than twenty-seven thousand jobs in different Greek companies? You're telling me about the Polygal problem, don't you think we know the Polygal problem? Is En Marea's proposal, first, to close companies, and when there's problems, to stand in front of the billboards? Is that your proposal, Your Honor? Is the Mareas proposal to vote in Parliament against employment and against industry, and then take advantage of the workers' problems in front of them? Your Honor, we're here to face it. The Industry Counsellor has a question from Poligal and will answer it clearly. The company committee and the unions know we're with them, and they know we're working on a sales book to try to improve the policing problem. And don't come here with [all], Mr. Villares, we didn't give Poligal a euro. [[(Expression taken by the President in the light of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure.)]] No, of course, words have to be put into practice. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] To say we give a grant to Poligal is false. And to say falsehoods in Parliament is a great [study]. [[(Expression taken by the President in the light of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure.)]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, with the foolish word I think you wanted to refer to what you later expressed, falsehoods, but I'm going to remove it. We're going to remove that expression because I don't think it's appropriate. That's it. Replica, Mr. Villares. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, Mr. Núñez, this is the graph of employment evolution since you ruled, and below is the graph of industrial employment evolution. So even during its government and during the last few months, when there is net job creation in Galicia, regardless of its quality, that we question, of course, industrial employment continues to decline, while the whole employment trend is rising. So we don't know very well what you're assuming when you assume that you're creating industrial jobs, because what you're showing is this graph, which refers to official data, is that you're destroying industrial employment in Galicia, and since you've been ruling in our country for the last ten years, we assume that that's your responsibility and something that you have to explain. You lack the truth when you refer to certain statements you have just made at this time, for example in relation to the Aeronautics of Rozas, when we, during this legislation, have brought several initiatives, firstly, to ask and, secondly, to urge the Board on the jobs of more than 200 jobs promised by contractors and subcontracts within the aircraft, of which the Industry Counsellor himself was not able to explain neither here nor in the on-site visit we did at his time to the Aeronautics of Rozas. So, less wolves and more specific data on the adaptation we make in this legislation. And if you're not in plenary meetings to listen to En Marea's initiatives, then you lose it, because then it gives rise to answers like this, so unfortunate. Similarly, we do not, as you say, stand against the enlargement of Citroën. What we do ask, of course, is that the Law of the Land should not be amended in particular to mock judgements by the Supreme Court, as you did in the case of Vigo and the case of Ourense. We demand compliance and respect for legality, and also compliance with Supreme Court judgements, which is quite different from what you do when you have the opportunity to rule. Look, to conclude, Bosch's workers, like the police workers, want solutions. They want solutions, first of all, to their working precariousness; they want not to get their hair off; they want temporary workers not to be used illegally; they want them not to be sent to the street and they don't shift production. The workers and the police workers want to be given a solution because the company is producing profits. This is where innovation, the development of every business group, and now this whole stock is moving abroad. And they want you to be involved in the development of that industrial policy, for which, by the way, you have competence. That's why we ask you, first of all, that both in the Bosch conflict and in the Polygal conflict take your letters on the subject and make the parties sit down and negotiate, which is something that at this time, for example, the employer in the case of Poligal doesn't want to do. Maybe it happens in Bosch, but mostly in Poligal. You have the power to do so. They're hiding relevant information from them right now so they can even defend their work rights. Intermediate so that this may take place, so that they can negotiate on an equal basis. Secondly, you also ask for better control over grants, whether it's your administration or other administrations. Or wasn't Plan Ferrol a plan paid with public money? If it went with public money, you, as an administration...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u18	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u19	...who also manages the public, have the power to do so. And they also carry out work inspection activities. And if they don't have enough skills, do what we've already told them here on other occasions: intervene to ask for skills in labour inspection to be able to avoid work fraud.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u20	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u21	And I'm done with one more thing. The Law on the Promotion of Business Activities, which we call Galicia's Environmental Predation Law, did not serve to prevent the relocation of companies. His law was already in force when Poligal now presented this plan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u22	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u23	Therefore, the Entrepreneurship Act was unable to prevent relocation either north of Portugal or the whole of Europe...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u24	Thank you. Your time is up. Close, Mr. President of the Board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u25	I repeat, Your Honor, that it is false that this government gives a euro to Poligal. False. False. False. Secondly — false — it becomes false again that you did not try to close the PSA Peugeot-Citroën factory, because the Vigo Urban Management General Plan that fell did not allow that factory to expand its facilities, and they were running, and you stood against that it would continue to expand the facilities. That means he wouldn't have the new models and he means PSA Peugeot-Citroën would be closing slowly. Those are the realities, and it's very good for the workers to hear exactly what their proposal is. Look, Mr. Villares, you just voted in favour of state budgets. Yes, yes, yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You continue to lie, you don't mind, if in front of the workers they will deny that, of the five members of the Tide of Podemos, four voted in favour of the State budget. What does that mean? You voted in favour of the central government's industrial policy, the irresponsible energy policy of the central government and the fragile car policy of the central government. Did it work? Alcoa closure, employment regulation file in Ferroatlantica and uncertainty in the automotive sector. Yes, ladies, I don't know why you're laughing at the workers. It's a very serious matter for us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u26	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u27	Ninety thousand jobs in the industrial sector...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u28	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u29	...from 2014 to 2018. Workers have the right to know, Your Honor, that today we have less unemployment than when we get to the Government, in spite of everything. When we got to the government, unemployment grew by 58,000 people and now it's down by 33,000. The unemployment rate, when we reached the Government, was 12.6% and is now lower. If you want to take the Social Security affiliates, when we get to the Government, the memberships would fall by more than 33,000 and now rise by more than 18,000. This is the data. Look, they accuse us of our industrial policy being a disaster. Why do we go from 2015 to 2018 above all the Spanish industrial policy in the industrial production index? But if you don't even know what the index is, Mr. Villares, let me read it to you. [[Murmurs.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, how can we discuss the industrial production index, if the industrial production index is published? We exceeded Spain in the industrial production index; in 2015, in 2016, in 2017, in 2018, we multiplied by six the industrial production index. [[Applause]] You're talking about exports. Ladies and gentlemen, another index of the operation of the Greek industry. It's been ten years with an export surplus against imports, ten years! This year we have a surplus of €3,800 million, and Spain has a deficit of €33,000 million. You continue to support the industrial policy of relocation of the central government; industrial policy of relocation of the central government. They'll delocalize the electro-intensive industries. We've seen him say it for months. They've already got Alcoa closed in Coruña, we'll see what happens in Alcoa in San Cibrao. That's why the police workers know that here they have an ally, the ally of following up step by step with them, with the company committee, with the unions, all that competition file. The ally of trying to make a sales book to try to find a new owner for Poligal. And don't get confused. Yesterday you criticized Galicia's tourism policy... if you're against any industrial policy! Look, Mr. Villares, I don't agree with Galicia being the second largest industrial production, I'd like it to be the first, no doubt. Now, to say that Galicia is not the second largest industrial production is to make the House lie. Mr. Villares, your industrial policy is to try to get everything wrong to get in front of the sign and fool the workers. That's your industrial policy. Look, listen to the leaders...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u30	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u31	...about everything this spokesperson from En Marea, speaking of industrial policy is as if you want to give class of political leadership. Mr. Villares, respect the workers, don't deceive us. You don't have the deputy record to deceive the workers. With the workers there is the Government of Galician Union and it will continue to be until the end.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u33	Don't come here inflating possibilities and don't come here fooling people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u34	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u35	A long time ago, Mr. Villares, that every time there's a problem, you point to the problem. That's right, if you could qualify from an industrial point of view in something, you're the one against the job and against...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the view of the Government of Galicia regarding the elimination of knowledge of the Greek language as a requirement for access to the public service
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u37	"I'd like to speak in English, I do it in intimacy." I am sure, Mr. Feijóo, that you are able to remember exactly where they were said and who formulated these words. It was Pablo Casado, July 12, 2018, Santiago de Compostela, in an act of campaign to preside over the People's Party. But we see now that your leader is in another campaign, he really doesn't like it so much that he speaks German. In fact, I think it bothers you, and it's making it very clear that for the People's Party there is a first language, which is Spanish, and a second language, which is Greek, that you tolerate in intimacy but that you don't like in the public domain. That married man, faithful heir to Mr. Aznar's cave, continues to attack linguistic diversity and has the courage to tell us that we must no longer have any access to a public job in Galicia. This gentleman — who I think is from Palencia — who wanted to explain to us a few days ago that women were pregnant, now it turns out he also wants to explain to the Greeks and to the Greeks that in order to work in the Public Administration of this country there is no need to know the language of this country. Listen to what your leader Pablo Casado suggests: "The knowledge and use of Spanish will be an indispensable requirement for access to public employment. The co-official languages —galego — may be regarded as an important verb — a merit, never a requirement." Exactly the same as the extreme right. We see why it's so easy to deal with them! [[Applause]] This proposal by your party, Mr Feijóo, goes against the Statute of Self-Government, goes against the Law of Linguistic Standardization, goes against the Law of Public Employment in Galicia, but it is above all against the common sense and wants to discriminate against the people we speak in Greek. Because so that a person who lives in Galicia can freely use the Greek in the Public Service, there is a need for someone to speak and meet the Greek on the other hand. It's the only way to keep your freedom free, your right to use Greek if you want it. Mr. Feijóo, you have already played a role... I would say one of the saddest moments in this country's history. You've already made politics against the Greek, you've already used that patronage, that lie, the imposition of the Greek by a handful of votes, breaking agreements and dividing the Welsh and the Welsh. I ask them not to repeat that episode and that for once do not hide behind those papers that prepare their advisers and advisers and answer the question. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, yes, you said that your obligation — I literally copy it — is to answer the question. It's a novelty, because it never does, Mr. Feijóo. But just tell us -- it's very easy -- whether you're in favour or against the proposal of your leader, the leader of your party, which is the People's Party, that Greek is a second language. Answer it and don't hide, Mr. Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u39	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pontón, it makes you feel like you've already entered the electoral campaign. No, no, I don't think so much. There's no drawback. [[Murmurs.]] How will you not enter the electoral campaign if you have already signed your alliance with the most democratic parties in Spain, with Herri Batasuna-Bildu and with the Republican Left of Catalonia? [[Laughter]] That's why, coming here to teach extremism lessons, Mrs. Pontón, it'll be sarcasm, it'll be a joke. Let the lady of the BNG come here to talk about political extremism, ideological extremism, when she asks the Greeks to vote for Herri Batasuna-Bildu and the Republican Left of Catalonia to defend Galicia, it is a historic sarcasm, Mrs. Pontón! [[Laughter]] That's why I'm going to try to answer to Mrs. Pontón without realizing that you're an ally with Herri Batasuna-Bildu. [[Applause]] Look, in Galicia we have two languages, therefore, we are a rich people from a linguistic point of view, and wealth must never become a problem. Don't ask me, therefore, to look for a confrontation with the language, so that's what you're already doing, and Galician is just a problem for those who want it to be a problem. Our speech is people's speech, where we understand most people. It's a speech of freedom, of cordial bilingualism, of tolerance, of knowledge of the two languages and of each of them as you said: how we feel! What's the problem with nationalism? The problem of Greek nationalism is that Greek is not a problem in Galicia, that is its fundamental problem. If we were to pursue linguistic policies according to Greek nationalism, we would take thirty years of taxation, thirty years of immersion, and thirty years of prohibitions. How do we try to represent most, and at the moment we continue to represent most, most of the Greeks we want? Balance, knowledge, freedom; that is, the model in which we understand everything. That's our model, which we all understand. Who makes laws in Galicia affecting the competences of the Autonomous Community? This Parliament. The laws of this Parliament are therefore respected. You know why? Because we're Democrats, Mrs. Pontón, even though you sometimes have quite dubious tics. Yes, Your Honor, you don't want to respect the Law of linguistic normalization. See, how is it considered a requirement or merit of the Greek in the civil service? According to the law, that's the answer. In the General Administration, each call is established whether it is merit or requirement. In teaching, it's a requirement. In health, it's worth it. No news, Your Honor. And I'm going to give you an example of why in Galicia we're going to keep protecting the model where we all understand each other. For example, since 2016, among all the oppositions from the autonomous community we have made, 14,700 people have been present. 97.5% of the approved didn't have to take the German exam. Why? Because they already have the corresponding title, because they've already done primary, or they've already done high school, or they've got a university degree, which they've already solved the problem of Greek. Who had to take the Welsh test? 2.5 % of opponents. How many did you pass the Welsh exam? All of them. What's the matter, Mrs. Pontón? Is it the problem of trying to take the Welsh again as a weapon that drags between political parties? Don't count on the Galician People's Party for this. You know why? Because the Greeks do not agree with the minorities who want us to speak in a language when we have two, and because we are free to speak the language that we consider appropriate, and because we know both: Spanish, and we are very proud, and Greek, and we are also quite proud. [[Applause]] So, Your Honor, Galicia has two languages, we don't turn linguistic wealth into a ground for confrontation. You have a confrontation, and we will continue to speak in English and Spanish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u41	Look, Mr. Feijóo, you are more predictable and compassionate in your answers than we might think. [[Laughter]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, and that's what we pay a lot of advisers, eh! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u42	Please don't miss the north. Cutre's not an insult. Even I know what a knife means, eh! [[Laughter]] Go ahead, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u43	You think it's bad that we're calling the advisors. They're on the Galician board payroll. I imagine they'll do something for the president. Look, I think the only sarcasm there is is for you to ask the Greeks and the Greeks for Mr. Casado to put in place a law of languages that tells us that what he wants is to discriminate against Greek. The problem we're seeing, Mr. Feijóo, is that you're not able to get out of that submission to the People's Party in Madrid and that does what you're told. [[Applause]] Look, I'm going to quote sources that I think the People's Party won't bother you. [[Murmurs.]] I don't know if Mrs. Prado wants to intervene in the debate too, probably. Well, thank you very much. [[Murmurs.]] Yeah? Thank you. The World: "The PP will include in its programme an organic law to shield Spanish and prohibit co-official language from being an indispensable requirement for access to public employment." This says El Mundo on February 28, 2019. I don't know who's in the campaign, Mr. Feijóo. And perhaps, as you don't trust El Mundo, who is surely interested in having the People's Party hurt in the election, perhaps if you trust the People's Party's press notes, March 1, 2019: "Married requires the use of Spanish as a vehicle language for the entire public service. He considers that speaking the co-official language"—don't say regional because I suppose he's giving them court— "may be a merit, but not a requirement in bilingual communities." This, Mr. Feijóo, means that what you are proposing to the Greeks and to the Greeks in these elections is that they support them to discriminate against the people we speak in Greek when they hit us. Because if I go to an administration, for example, to protest at the rise of light, and I have an interlocutor who doesn't know Greek, who is leaving defenseless and discriminated against is the one who uses the Greek language, and that's what his party is proposing. Your duty as president is, first, to answer, that you didn't answer the question I asked you, you didn't answer the question. He gets angry because he's being told about Poligal, and when we ask him a specific question, he doesn't answer it. We have a Statute of autonomy which says that Galicia's own language is Greek, that the English and Spanish languages are official in Galicia and everyone has the right to know and use them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u44	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u45	And he also says, Mr. Feijóo — and it is very important — that "the Galician public authorities will ensure the normal and official use of both languages and will boost the use of Greek in all public, cultural and information life," and this proposal by his party directly conflicts with the Statute of Autonomy. I don't know what balances you're talking about, I only know that with your linguistic policy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u46	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u47	...—end, Mr. President—8% of children's education in the cities is in English, there is zero — there is zero — there is zero, Mr. Feijóo!— daily newspapers in the Greek language, there is only 4% of television channels, it is impossible, almost, in this country to be able to live normally in Greek, and you come here and are unable to demarcate a proposal, Mr. Feijóo, which is against the dignity of this country. Don't repeat the shame of attacking...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u49	Mrs. Pontón, I think our position is known. About how is Greek, the Greek, from the point of view of oral and written knowledge, is at its best time. Not from the point of view of use. In Language and society in Galicia, by quoting a source from the Royal Galician Academy of 1992-1996, let me read to you what the Royal Academy says: "Language skills have had a substantial improvement, and today we can consider this society as bilingual; an exceptional situation within Europe's minority languages and one of the great strengths for the reproduction of Greek." This is what the Royal Galega Academy says between the 1980s and 2016: "The 73% of the population that usually uses Greek is bilingual." He's still saying the Royal Academy. "Nine out of every ten Greek citizens are able to speak it, eight out of every ten read it, and six out of every ten write it." That's what the Royal Galaga Academy says. By the way, the Royal Galaga Academy also says that in Galicia we speak more Greek than in Catalan Catalonia, and that in Galicia we speak more Greek, of course, than in Basque. That's why I understand you're worried about the Basque, what I don't understand is that you're worried about the Greek, Your Honor. And that's why I understand, probably, that you care about the Basque. I'm worried about Galician linguistic cordiality and Galician social cordiality. So, welcome to the Autonomy Statute. You claim the Statute of Self-Government, what a shame they have always voted against the Statute of Self-Government! He claims the Spanish Constitution, what a pity they are against the Spanish Constitution! The Autonomy Statute is an organic law, and don't worry that I'm the guarantor of the Autonomy Statute. Yes, Your Honor, I have pledged my office by swearing the Statute of Self-Government and the Spanish Constitution, and you promise the office as a legal imperative, because you do not believe in the Constitution or in the Statute of Self-Government. [[Applause]] That's why the nationalistic lords won't give us lessons in cordiality and legality. Look, you just said that we don't support the Greek. Yes. We are accused of recentralising, of following the designs of Madrid. You're a match. There's another group, like VOX, that says I'm a nationalist because I impose the Greek and forbid the Spanish in Galicia. [[Laughter]] Look where the extremes touch! Look where, Your Honor, they're practically stuck. [[Applause]] No wonder, Your Honor, that there are militants from the IGC and the BNG who are now VOX leaders in Galicia. No wonder, Your Honor. It gives us the same way we're criticized for being German and being Spanish, we assume it with great pleasure and great honor. Look, Your Honor, we're never going to let the nationalists get close to Galicia, because if the nationalists were close to Galicia, Galicia would be very small. But Galicia is much bigger. There are nationalists, of course, yes, but there are also a lot of people, the vast majority, who are not nationalists, and those, all of them, including the nationalists, represent and try to represent. Your Honor, I have just specified with figures that the Greek is not a problem in the public service, and I have just done it because 97% or 98% of the people who want to enter a public service square in Galicia have already believed the knowledge of the Greek without need to be examined; and I have just realized it because none of those who have been examined have been suspended. So let's continue with the language policy we have. I can tell you it's okay, it's okay! It's good enough to divide the country at all; it's good enough to fragment the country at all; it's good enough to break the country's unity at all. I do not accept the policies of Herri Batasuna and Bildu, nor of left Republican of Catalonia, and therefore I do not accept the policies of BNG. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, it's good to give a little little German to anyone who speaks Spanish......yes, Your Honor... [[Mr Prado speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u50	Mrs. Prado, Mrs. Prado, I call you in order once.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u51	...and it's good to give a bad Spanish card to the Welshman. That's all right, Your Honor! Frankly, I'll tell you something. Look, don't keep pushing us, don't keep pushing us because, you know what's going on? That when one is at the extreme it becomes extremely heavy, and the problem we have in Galicia is not knowing Greek and Spanish, Your Honor, we know Greek and we speak Spanish according to our own will.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u52	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u53	We do not want linguistic impositions, ladies and gentlemen, and today we are absolutely satisfied that the model of cordial bilingualism in Galicia is exported to the rest of the autonomous communities. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga of G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the actions planned by the Government of Galicia to address the risks to the self-government of Galicia arising from the threat of recentralisation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u55	Mr. Leicega has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u56	Good morning. I also want to begin by greeting all those who are in the gallery and who are attending this session, in particular, to the workers of Bosch and Poligal. Let's hope there can be a positive solution to your demands. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, although you say no, I believe that it is obvious for all — and for you too — that it floats into the conservative environment in Spain a recentralizing drive, from a vision — I believe that it is false — of the balance of the state of autonomy, which I believe has been — and is still being — a robust success, in which all the forces that we are inside the Constitution are involved and which we defend autonomy. There are examples to the piles, but we can cite two. Yesterday we saw how Mr. Casado defended the re-centralization of skills in education for those self-employed communities who are ill. I don't know very well how to qualify for this. You know it's a competition full of Galicia, according to our Statute. And it also defends a subordinate statute for the official languages of autonomous communities other than Spanish — i.e., for their own languages — because it considers that there is an imposition of these languages. You yourself have just said — and I share it — that there is no problem for the Spanish in Galicia, there is absolutely no problem. So this is absolutely unnecessary, not only in Galicia, but in other autonomous communities as well. The agenda powered by VOX is taking part in the agenda of the conservative parties in Spain and is alienating us from the consensus that existed in this and other themes. And today we are concerned, indeed, because we see that in some of these matters you adopt silence as an instrument of situation. He puts himself on a profile — as is said in a common way — in front of his leader's recentralizing positions. And this concerns us, because we know that you are an influential leader of your party and that you could guide the program of your formation. Our language is a central element of self-government. We always talk about Castelao, but sometimes we must also follow his footsteps, and he insisted very much on this: without the Greek there is no Galicia as we know it today. You tell us that there's no problem with our language model, and I'm telling you, if that's the case, if you think it's the case -- the education councilman insisted on this idea -- defends it. But, look, you and your group supported a proposal by citizens at the Congress of Deputies that eliminated the possibility of establishing as a requirement the Greek for access to public service, and the other languages themselves. You voted for it, it's not a problem for the future, it's been voted for a few months ago in the Congress of Deputies! Luckily he's lost. You have to think about it and you have to oppose it because it goes against the model you say you defend. There's a problem here, Mr. Feijó, we don't hide it because it's a real problem. And of the same competences, today they will have the opportunity to vote in favour of an agenda of competences which they intend to break with what has happened in these ten years, in which we have not been able to expand our self-government and bring ourselves closer to other autonomous communities. It is a constitutional agenda that is already approved, with important powers: not only police and trafficking, but the Labour Inspectorate or control of our territory; the management of the disaster, in order to carry forward the policies of mobilization of lands that Galicia needs; or the control of our coasts. These are very important issues, which affect not only the soul of our self-government, but its substance, which is its competence. Not to mention your party's proposals for these elections in tax matters, which would break us to the financial adequacy of the autonomous community and question the welfare state. It's serious things because our state model is in question, it's in question a model that allowed for forty years...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u57	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u58	...of progress, of democracy, of well-being, of coexistence, which is being questioned from some places on the right, and I hope this doesn't go any further. It's necessary to make it clear that we're not going through there. It is necessary to defend that democracy in Spain has always been accompanied by respect for diversity in a context of political unity, and that is the model that we must defend among all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u59	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u60	Mr. Leicega, I thank you for agreeing with the Government's language policy, which, no doubt, is good news. And you have no doubt that this Government's linguistic policy is the language policy that will continue in Galicia, because it is passed in Parliament and approved by the Government. If you talk to me about different considerations, look, if you want us to take the full statements of national political leaders, where the political leader you referred to — the president of my party — said that the model of cordial bilingualism in Galicia was the model in bilingual autonomous communities. That statement doesn't interest you. Well, that's your problem. Look, here's not to fool the Greeks, it's to be consistent with the Greeks. And in the same way that I try to be consistent with the Greeks, I know perfectly well, as President of Galicia, that Mr. Sánchez once came to Galicia as Secretary General of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, and since he is President he never came to Galicia. As President of the Government he visited all the autonomous communities of Spain except Galicia; he made 20 international trips, two countries a month, except Galicia. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And now the President of the Central Government, your spokesperson here, is talking about self-government. But do you think that the President of the Government of Spain — that the only community that did not visit as President of the Government of Spain was Galicia — is interested in something the self-government of Galicia, the interests of the Greeks and the assumption that he was trying to transfer to the State budget in Galicia? No, Mr. Leicega! [[Applause]] He's not interested in anything! I don't say that you don't care, I suppose so, even if you look, Mr. Leicega, each has his own story. In 2007, in this House, the BNG and the Socialist Party voted against the transfer of the freeway from the Atlantic, and now they want to fool everyone by saying they're in favour of the highway and the transfer. In 2008, you agreed with us on the transfer of traffic, and they arrived in Madrid, with the Socialist Government, and boycotted the transfer of traffic. And now you're talking about the transfer of traffic to the Autonomous Community. Look, Your Honor, in this House we passed the Cash Act and you have appealed to the Constitutional Court; the Catalogue of Medicines, and you have appealed to the Constitutional Court. What self-government are you talking about, Mr. Leicega? From the self-government that every time we make a law for the benefit of the Greeks, do you take it to the Constitutional Court? Whenever we deal with the transfer of a competition, do you deny it in Madrid? Mr. Leicega, are you worried? You should be worried, and you should be worried because the next Government of Spain seems to indicate that it can be, if you don't succeed the parties that we're not willing to compromise with the independenceists, the Socialist Party with the independenceists. And do you think the left-wing Republican lords of Herri Batasuna, the BNG partners or the PDK lords or other partners that you have, are interested in something Galicia? Do you think that when a government cuts 30% of the community's budget in the state's budget — the worst budgets of the last seventeen years — does it interest you anything about the self-government of the country? [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, do you really believe that the Government that you defend is interested in not the interests of the Greeks anymore, but in the interests of the whole of Spain, when they are approving all those social Fridays — which you call them — a puppet of €16 billion of public debt, why are you diverting from the budget €16 billion in discount time? Look, Mr. Leicega, you know that we are in favor of self-government, the vast majority of the transfers that have been made to Galicia have been signed by the People's Party. The construction of Galicia, from the statutory point of view and from the point of view of the statutory institutions, leads to the signing of a president of the People's Party. And that's why our proposal is known: are we going to get the transfer of the highway? Will you support the amendment you tabled by the People's Party at the Congress of Deputies to exempt 1,400 million euros in fees that you signed with the concessionaire?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u61	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u62	Will you support the logical claim of the 85 million euros a year due to us by the Central Government, which were provided for in the Budget Act of 2018 and already owe us 170 million in 2018 and 2019? Mr. Leicega, I've just written to the Fairy Minister. I have just formally asked you to transfer the EUR 170 million to the Autonomous Community and let us spend the budget surplus of 2018, EUR 125 million in favour of health and social policy. You're in favour of the answer being positive...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u63	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u64	...and why are we transferred that money to health and social policy? That's self-government, Mr. Leicega, the rest are speeches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u65	Thank you. Replica. Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u66	It is unfortunate, Mr. Feijóo, that when we talk about serious things you come here to tell me anecdotes without any meaning. [[Applause]] Look, you know what's serious and what's real? [[Applause]] I don't know how many transfers the People's Party signed when it was in the Union Government. I know you, as president, none. None! [[Applause]] Sky! [[Applause]] That's what's real, Mr. Feijóo. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] You know what's real? That you have been ruling with Mariano Rajoy — of his party — as President of the Government of Spain, with an absolute majority, and of all these issues that he has left unsolved the Socialist Party has not resolved any. Resolve zero! Sky! That's your commitment. And you know why we're having trouble with AP-9? For many reasons, but the first is that Mr. Aznar, with Mr. Álvarez Cascos, and you in the Government, extended the concession until 2048. That's where all the problems come from! [[Applause]] And you know why, too? [[Applause]] Because Mr Rajoy, with a majority in the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies, blocked that the transfer could be taken to Parliament's plenary, so there was no time to do it now. [[Applause]] But do you know what I'm telling you? That that's better for you, who is the leader of the People's Party, changing the positions of your party. [[Murmurs.]] Look, don't come to tell me here that the problem with everything is that Sánchez didn't come as president of the Government to Galicia, that doesn't stop being an anecdote. I'm asking you -- yes, yes, yes, yes, the problem is politics -- they're commitments. [[Murmurs.]] The commitments on three issues that I raised today: are you willing to tell me that you will oppose the law driven by the president of your party, which eliminates Greek as a requirement for access to public administration? [[Applause]] Tell me yes or no. [[Applause]] Are you willing to support a transfer agenda like we put in the plenary today, to negotiate with the new Government? [[Applause]] Yes or no? And, of course, we're going to be in favour of everything that benefits Galicia, we're proving it. In the previous plenary session we voted in favour of your proposals relating to AP-9 in financial terms, and we are going to vote in favour of all those proposals which benefit Galicia. They don't have any problems on that side, because we're committed to self-government and we're committed to this country. And what we want to know is whether you are, too, and it's very simple, answer my questions, tell me you're going to tell Mr. Married about the Spanish tax law. Tell me that this will be the case, and tell me that it will also support an extension of the competences of the Autonomous Community and defend those who are threatened today, as is the case with education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u67	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u68	You tell me if we're going to support a law that doesn't exist, Mr. Leicega. I support the laws which I support in this Parliament, and I will support exactly all the laws that we have passed in the majority in this Parliament. [[Murmurs.]] I've been doing it for ten years, and I have my own transfer history. Unfortunately, it's much better than yours. Much better than yours, Mr. Leicega! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Leicega, this is the amendment to the transfer of the Atlantic Highway. The entire People's Parliamentary Group in Congress we ask that the Greeks not pay 1,400 million euros more at stake for a ruinous business that the Socialist Government has done again with the Audasa dealership. We're asking you to deminine 25% the rate of going back and forth. [[Protests.]] And we ask, Your Honor, a little respect for Galicia's interests. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He didn't say anything about it. We could start legislation with this commitment. What do you think? This is written, isn't it that law that says you're going to write? This is already written. Do you agree with this transfer of AP-9, a reduction of EUR 1.4 billion to pay, and a reduction of 25% of the trip back and forth on the same day? yes or no? It's very easy. Look, letter to the Fairy Minister of February 27. We ask him to let us invest the surplus in health care. You're in favour of letting us invest the surplus in health care, yes or no? Mr. Leicega, of course, on specific questions from the Greeks, you are not interested. You're talking about anecdotes. Is Anecdota the president of the Government of Spain visiting all autonomous communities as president and never visiting Galicia? Is that an anecdote? Does that sound like an anecdote to you? Anecdote is to come to the Coruña and say three commitments from the Government of Spain. One, which is already solved by Alcoa when they're in employment regulation file. [[Murmurs.]] Let them tell the people of Alcoa if Alcoa's problem is solved. Another is that the status of the electrointensive is approved. Falso! And the draft we know -- we anticipate -- does not solve the problems of Alcoa, nor the problem of Ferroatlantics, nor the problem of Megasa, nor any problem of the electrointensive industry. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] This is far more important than the jokes we bring to Parliament, Your Honor, because we are talking about thousands of families. We're not talking about speeches, we're talking about getting to the end of the month, payrolls and families. This is what the People's Party wants to talk to the Spanish Government and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Look, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to read the article that I defend -- I hope you too -- "The Constitution is founded on the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation, the common and indivisible homeland of all Spaniards, and recognizes and guarantees the right to autonomy of the nationalities and regions that integrate it and solidarity between them." Do you agree with Article 2 of the Constitution yes or no? No, no, do you agree with the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation and the state of autonomy? [[Murmurs.]] For don't worry, Mr. Leicega, I defend the Constitution from beginning to end, I defend the unity of the Spanish nation, the equality of all citizens... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u69	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u70	...and the state of autonomy. I understand that their partners would laugh because you rule in all institutions with them and do not defend either the Constitution or the unity of the Spanish nation or the Statute of Self-Government. That's the big difference between you and us. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, it's ironic, because, if there's a party that believes in decentralization ever since LOAPA, it's the Socialist Spanish Workers' Party. That law of harmonisation of the autonomic process... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u71	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u72	The new people of the Socialist Party, as they don't know what the Socialist Party was, they laugh.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u73	Mr. Torado, I call you by order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u74	The problem is that the former Socialist Party was much more serious than the current Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u75	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u76	Yes, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u77	Sorry! Quiet, quiet! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] A call to order, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u78	To these new Members of the Socialist Party I recommend that they read the book of Alfonso Guerra to learn what the Socialist Party was. It would be important that they read it, Your Honor, it would be very important that they read it. [[Balbordo.]] [[Applause]] The book of Alfonso Guerra is much more important than the Resistance Manual, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u79	Mr. Losada, second call to order...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u80	The problem with all this is that, when the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u81	I'm sorry, president, I'm sorry. Mr. Losada, second call to order. And I'm warning you that with another call I have to expel him. It's good for you to know. Thank you. And that's it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u82	Look, Your Honor, I'm saying that a party that applauds a 30% decrease in the state budget in Galicia does not currently have legitimacy to talk about self-government in Galicia, I'm sorry. I'd like not to say these words...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u83	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u84	...but unfortunately it is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u85	Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u86	And that's why don't you count on us for smoke curtains. Don't count on us for smoke curtains and don't talk about the 30% decrease in the budget or count on us for alibis...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u87	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u88	...to negotiations with independentists.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u89	Your time is up, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u90	Galicia knows what she wants, Mr. Leicega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u91	Thank you, your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u92	We want the transfer of the highway, we want to invest the surplus...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u93	Mr. President, your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u94	...and we want the money to be returned to us. That's the real self-government, Mr. Leicega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u95	Let's continue with the agenda. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please! As announced, it now touches on an interpellation. La Noa Presas Bergantiños and five other members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the Galician Union in relation to the sector of the Galician Intensive Industry
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u96	To formulate the inquiry you have the floor to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u97	Good morning to all and to all, especially to the police workers and workers who accompany us, as well as those of Ferroatlantics and the comrades and companions of the BNG of Cee and Dumbria. We thank you for your presence here, and that, despite the previous blow, they haven't left the House yet. Let's put on our side a little bit of seriousness, which is hours. [[Applause]] Mr. Count, once again, since the Galician Nationalist Block, we have brought our concerns to this House at the moment that the industry of this country is living, a situation that is becoming more and more serious and urgent. Since the BNG we have a concern that is based on the reality that we are living on continuous ERE and business threats, and also on the objective reality of data. Because, even in the last year of the general increase in the occupation of this country, you have forgotten before the President of the Galician Union said that, within this increase, there is also a loss of 3,500 jobs in the Galician industry. Because, of course, we do not share that the services sector and the outsourcing of our economy are good news for this country. And we're particularly concerned about what's happening to this country's intensive electro-intensive industry. The situation of companies such as Alcoa or as Ferroatlantics shows the screeching failure of the disruptive thrust model that has installed the People's Party in the State and that the Socialist Party has not been able to change bravely in recent months. We're also disappointed by a central government unable to bring forward the status of electrointensives, with a president who came last Friday to lie to this country and tell us what it was going to be for now. For now, in the end, it turned out that the statute of electrointensives will be almost, almost, on the reflection day, which for us is an insatiable period. And another great surprise is the one that gave us yesterday the Official Gazette of the Spanish State, with the news that the Greeks and the Greeks are going to raise the bill of light. And also for these companies, it's going to be a trap, not just for individual economies, but, of course, for these big consumers. [[Applause]] Of course, for the BNG this is unacceptable and I want to begin this interpellation, Mr. Count, hearing his hand, hearing his hand on two questions. First, the requirement that this statute has to be and must serve our country. And secondly, a country position. Let's make use of the proposal that prompted the Nationalist Galego Block in this House last November 22nd and let's tell the state that Galicia does not allow to pay for producing. It's enough that we don't have the benefit of being energy producers to other parts of the state, so that now that's going to be a trap for our domestic and industrial economies. [[Applause]] Because Galicia, of course, is not responsible. Responsibility lies in the absurd industrial policy of the Spanish State, and it will have to be Madrid who pays for this issue. These are important issues, and since June we must have a firm position. But there are a lot more, there are issues that the Galician Union itself can do for itself by the company in which we want to focus today, by Ferroatlantics. And as you have recently -- allow me, Mr. Conde, to tell you -- it's a little bit in "scappler" mode, I wanted to remind you of two questions that I have here. The first is that Galician Autonomy Statute seems to be forgotten. Sometimes they are confused to be incompetent with having no competition. So I want to remind you of Article 4.3, for example, so you assume one of the main rights of the Greeks and the Greeks: the right to work in this country; Article 27.12, of hydraulic uses; or 30.2, of exclusive competition in industry. Secondly, this document that I have here — which I suppose will prove familiar to you — is the condition for the granting of hydroelectric power stations in the river Xallas. In fact, he could also teach — if this Government had the right to comply with the obligations of forwarding information to the House — the concessions of the Serrabal mine, but I beg you to imagine them. And I'm sending this to you because today we're talking about a particular and worrying situation, which is that of Ferroatlantic, which has several questions in our favor and which we could use. Because this company has its benefits precisely so high by the exploitation it makes of the Xallas, the Great River and the Serrabal Mine. They're Greek resources and Greek concessions and therefore we have a margin of manoeuvre, Counselor, which we understand is not inferior. And that's what we want to talk about today, about the roadmap we're going to take in front of the steps Mr. Villar Mir is taking. Today we urge them to act in front of an ERE that is absolutely unjustified and that involves a manual-covered relocation. You know that already in the last weeks of the year, the workers and the workers received the threat news from an ERE, both for Sabon and for Cee and Dumbria. Threats that finally culminated, culminated in the two-furniture stop initially, the 13th and the 14th. About this I want to draw the attention that there is not so much of the disposal of oven 11 and that this fact, this fact itself, before presenting itself and approving the ERE, already implied the dismissal of people, already implied eventual temporary staff that did not hire and implied losses also in the auxiliary company — about 30 people who have already finished 2018 without a job—. I hope that after the last news, after the official presentation on February 4 of that temporary ERE communication, from March 1, 2019 to February 28, 2021, you have a planned roadmap. Because we understand that this decision is absolutely — I insist — unjustified. Among the company's apologies, we find varied motives. Among them, they say it's the result of the pause. But the truth is, it's a little argument, because regardless of the thrust result, which could obviously have been better, we don't forget that it was a six-month drive and that we're trying to pull the motorcycle from a two-year job record. So don't hold it. Nor is it supported if we look at what happened in 2018, because it might be thought that this company has suffered a serious decline. But the opposite happened, their benefits continued to increase. And finally, we have to take that link to the Xallas power stations as well. This means that it is a constant source of benefit — even in times of rising electricity prices — for this company itself, which has opportunities even for self-production and benefits from that condition. So we don't believe Mr. Villar Mir's lies and hope that neither will the Galician Union. It is true that there is an adverse context, that crisis in the electrointensive industry, that failure to respond by the Galician Union after a decade of lack of industrial policy and State abandonment. But we have a position of strength, Mr. Conde, which I think we must exploit. We have concessions that can be placed on the table, because these concessions have obligations, job maintenance obligations, which have been systematically breached for many years — and much more now with this file. And there's also an obligation to maintain productive activity. And Galician Union has to demand that this activity has to be fully performanced. And you have to plant face because we are aware of the background and we are aware that, when this people unites, fights in the street and does not bend to the attempt to exploit Mr. Villar Mir's colonial, as you did when you tried to speculate with our natural resources, we know that we can win. And now we have a new challenge ahead, we have to put all the necessary political power and all the political pressure needed to stop this hidden relocation. [[Applause]] You know that for many months now, since Sabón, who live through the clearing of the Serrabal mine, an absolutely exclusive mineral throughout Europe, they've been trying to take all the value added to Portallano for a long time. You know that by the end of the year, the workers and workers in Cee and Dumbria protested at the port of Brens because they exported materials from that factory to produce the other. You know the operation of Villar Mir to buy a factory in France to produce the same as it did in Cee. And you also know that not 24 hours after signing that ERE, the bet was already planned for 100 percent — with an oven that wasn't working before — of Santander; of Santander, which is part of the Spanish state too and has the same price of electricity as our country. And, therefore, this is two plus two in manual-covered relocation, with jobs that are destroyed and therefore, from our point of view, with the failure to link hydroelectric power plants to the industrial complex. We understand that employment is not currently being guaranteed, that productive activity is not being maintained, and therefore the questions are logical: what evaluation does Galician Union do? What roadmap are we going to follow? Did they evaluate or are they not meeting those conditions? And how are we going to act? Of course, if I can stop making mere delegates of Villar Mir and look elsewhere, we'll also be on the side of Galician Union. We're clear that we have to draw a common sheet, and that common sheet has to go through demanding Villar Mir to curb that hidden relocation by going against these concessions, by going against the industry model that this country needs, and because they're trying to blackmail and put at the point of view a whole territory, and we can't afford it as a country. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Presas, in fact, we agree with the assessment that you are moving here, to this chamber, about the situation of Ferroatlantics — which must be extended to the whole of the intensive industry — a negative assessment and an assessment that we are all concerned about. This same Monday we held a new meeting in the Ministry of Industry because of the situation in Alcoa, and it was a new disappointment to see that, following the expectations of President Sánchez's visit to Coruña, not only did a situation not come near for the company, but the Central Government also did not present the draft of the statute of electrointensive companies, when the Government itself marked the date of March 11 for its presentation. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we continue without an electrointensive consumer status that allows us to establish a competitive, stable and predictable electrical framework for both Ferro-Atlantic and the rest of the electrointensive companies, and the Government remains indifferent to the proposals that we sent to it three months ago from Galicia and that have not yet been collected, despite the parallels that already apply in other countries such as France or Germany. The Galician board's proposals are well known and have been consistent with the electro-intensive companies themselves, a consensus in which Ferroatlantic participated too. They enable different types of electrointensive companies to be defined, but in particular they pose a reduction of 90 percent of the access fees in the cost-of-transport part, establish quarterly CO2 compensation mechanisms, exclude the payment of the arrivals to the National Energy Efficiency Action Fund and the capacity costs, and develop a study of the technically supported energy losses. All these measures, which have been transferred to the ministry, we hope that they can be included in that statute of the electro-intensive consumer and that, in addition, they have as an additional measure to have retroactive character since January 1st, with which we also believe that it will benefit the whole set of electro-intensive companies. Indeed — and we agree with you — we follow the results of an extremely unsatisfactory pause. The Government of Pedro Sánchez applied a drastic cut in the remuneration of the year 2019, no longer assigning — and it is good to remember in this parliament — the seventy-two million euros of the set of compensation to the intensive industry in the general budgets of the state of 2018, and in addition the preliminary draft budgets for this year included a clearly insufficient allocation. Today, in short, we still have no posse to assure companies about income, and therefore Ferroatlantic is also in a situation of absolute uncertainty about what can happen in the second half of the year 2019. Besides, we're still in an adverse political context; you also referred to this expression as the situation of a government that is installed in a permanent electoral campaign. It seems that you have simply called the motion of censure to campaign and use The Moncloa as a platform for your election campaign from the minute one of your arrivals to the government. The fact is that this government is slowing down business investment, this government is slowing down job creation and this government is facilitating the relocation of businesses to other countries. And there are measures that clearly concern us here, too, in Galicia, as is the draft law on climate change and energy transition itself, with a particularly negative impact on the automotive sector. In addition, we have a government that, from the point of view of its industrial policy, is developing an entirely disordered energy policy, an improvised energy policy and an inefficient energy policy that is putting in a limiting situation the set of electrotintensive companies and the set of the productive sector. It is true that he is a government that does not decide to put an end to the suspension of the tax to the electric generation, which was the extent to which he adopted last October to contain the rise in the price of light. Curiously, he uses Fridays, within the electoral campaign, to increase the expenditure, but he does not want to use Fridays too to approve legislative amendments that allow him to continue suspending the tax to the electrical generation and, therefore, that consumers and businesses have a relief from the price point of view of the electric bill. So we are again in front of a government that simply has an energy policy that goes against industry, an energy policy that goes against employment and an energy policy that goes against the continuation of the industrial activity of Ferroatlantics, electro-intensive companies and also the rest of our productive tissue. And in view of this scenario, you were talking about fortitudes. True, we agree with the concept: Galicia has strengths. We're probably talking about different strengths, because in Galicia if there's a stable government that's working to defend the general interest of all companies. We don't depend on any kind of toxic coalition and we have a government that's acting, that's talking, that's working along with the productive fabric and that's, of course, out of any electoral calculation, which seems to be the times that are marking both the Socialist Party and its government partners in Spain. And, in the particular case of Ferroatlantics, the Unity of Galicia is monitoring and demanding the maintenance of concessions. And make it clear, Mrs. Presas, that it will always be done within legality, as we did in 2017 when we denied the segregation of the electrical activity requested by the company, demanding each of the conditioners that marks the concessional title, in particular, the maintenance of the industrial activity of railways. You should not add any other commitment that does not appear in that concessional title, as you have just mentioned in your intervention. And, coincident with all these aspects, we do not actually agree with the solutions; then we do not agree. You're talking about a BNG proposal, and you know that we've had a lot of debate about the Galician Nationalist Block tariff, that independent tariff, which is what you always want to move here. [[Murmurs.]] Today I'm going to transfer a proposal to you: why has the Nationalist Block Galego never brought this parliament a memory explaining what the real impact it has on businesses and families in Greece is that independent electric tariff of BNG? I'd be glad you moved here a real impact technical report. Meanwhile, Mrs. Presas, I have to stick to Mr. Blanco Parga's words in this parliament, with the position of the BNG, simply by holding political play the decision on the Spanish and German electric system. They won't find us there; this isn't a political game, and you know perfectly well that all experts have taken the BNG rate of illegal and unfair, because it's an additional expense and an additional cost for businesses and consumers, and it's a non-solvent tariff, just because you never submitted data that justifies your report. They have a nationalist account, they have an independent account from the electrical point of view, but it's an account that doesn't give concrete solutions to the productive tissue. Finally, Mrs Presas, we will continue to work to solve the electro-intensive companies, to give Ferro-Atlantic solutions and to provide solutions so that Galicia can continue to grow from an industrial point of view; an effort that is developing our fabric, and more, today it is up to us, for the lack of stability that we have in the national and international context. It's true that it's creating a lot of difficulties, but it's difficulties that are generated, Your Honor, by a disordered energy policy, an unfair energy policy and an energy policy that is putting our electrointensive industry in a limited situation, both Alcohol and Ferroatlantic or the rest of the productive tissue. I ask your group to be next to the Government with pragmatism and responsibility; I ask all opposition groups to make a common front. The truth is, I don't have a lot of hope for you to pick up this hand that you have, but of course, what I'm asking you is that since the Galician Nationalist Block, you stop putting a stopover. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u100	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u101	Mr. Count, do you know what we have in the BNG that is missing from you and your government? Shame. We have a little shame and a sense of responsibility. [[Applause]] Because I think you've been wrong about paper today; it's just that, in addition, it's a shame that workers and workers come here and that they have to listen to it, it's a real shame. You were confused with paper, because you came here to dedicate ninety percent of your intervention to the electoral argumentary of the People's Party. Now, look, you have a chance: that the candidate's present to go as a deputy to Madrid and that someone in the People's Party has the will to do so, the vacancy as an economic adviser, employment and industry. [[Applause]] I have already lost all hope, indeed, I lose all hope that you will be able to bring here a serious debate. I've already started reading the Autonomy Statute so that I don't say they have no competences, which is what you've done lately as a headmistress; but, really, I don't know what we can do any more than, without hope, asking you to take a little seriously what's going on. Because whoever destroyed three thousand five hundred jobs in the industry last year was its government, it wasn't the BNG; who has one company after another presenting processes of termination of employment and closure is the Government of the People's Party. [[Applause]] You'll see, but we, of course, took this seriously and, at least, we attend when we're told, because in ten minutes, I didn't make a single reference to our proposal — which, of course, I defend — of the Greek electric tariff. By the way, I suppose they're also independent now people from Asime, for example, or other professional groups that are claiming similar and other issues. But you, focused on your argument. But, of course, the truth is that since the BNG, we have to do a little self-assessment purpose, because here who is overcoming all the indices of independence, but on the contrary, is the Government of the People's Party, because the Official State Gazette has just brought us all up to the Greek electric tariff. The Greek electric charge of the reverse: thanks to the People's Party, instead of lower, higher. Well, if that's the independence that the People's Party is going to practice, of course, I'm not buying it from you, Mr. Count. [[Applause]] You also fascinate me, because you say that you've been working, that you have a consensus with companies, because you're going to tell me that it's worth reaching consensus with Ferroatlantics, because today what you're doing is putting people on the street. Those are the consequences, among other things, that you have been ignoring all this time the need — that the BNG put on the table — that the social part was there too, that the unions, which so much allergies give you, were also in negotiations. And you're talking about a permanent electoral campaign; the truth is, the story should be applied. He also says he's watching and demanding, and they have more and more open processes on the table. Watching and demanding what? What more ovens do they operate in Santander? That Santander is 100 percent of productive capacity while Ferroatlantica in Cee, Dumbria and Soapón throws people down the street and loses productive capacity? Is that the essence of the Galician Union? Of course, I don't know what they're demanding, because they didn't, but the truth is, if they're demanding something, they're failing. So, either they're not demanding or they're demanding and they're failing. So, what's clear is that with your recipes, Mr. Count, we're not doing well. Of course, we're not going into the game that the People's Party wants to make noise on this issue when we have to talk about serious proposals, and so I'm going to leave them on the table with a little hope that it will take something into question. I'm going to urge him, once again, to listen to what the workers and workers say, but really, to get to points in common and to look for a way out, not to take a picture and say that they've already met and that the fault is with Pedro Sánchez. We understand that we must demand Ferroatlantics with force the withdrawal of that ERE. You have to argue that it is not justified and that we immediately demand that these furnaces which have been crippled become operational again; that it is put on the table that, if they are not meeting those conditions of exploitation, that this is argued legally and professionally—and you know that you have professionals within the board of Galicia that can do it perfectly—that it is told to the company that Galicia does not accept blackmails and that Galicia will not allow the extortion of a comarca and its workers in exchange for more misery, and that, therefore, if they are not worth those conditions, we will look for whom it is worth, but what we will not allow is that to continue to be a covert relocation and a future closure. And it must be demanded, as concession holder, that it be so, Mr. Count. If they take this seriously and not as a permanent campaign, of course, we will be there, but what we do not admit are these kinds of hair jackets and that you come here to ridicule proposals, ridicule and underestimate the situation that is going through the Death Coast and look elsewhere, because that's what they're doing. For that, it's better to leave the Economic, Employment and Industry Council and to apply for some other position.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Close this interpelment, economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Presas, it's disconcerting. The truth is that you come here... I understand perfectly that, when you have no arguments, you try to divert the content of your intervention. Tell this government about the lack of fluid dialogue with the unions... [[Murmurs.]] Permanently, the agenda of the Galician Union and, in particular, that of this councillor is at the disposal of the unions, and thus we are working together with the unions, both with Alcoa and with Ferroatlantica or with Poligal, with all trade unions and any company that has difficulties and needs this government. So I understand your independent speech to take off the current situation and the needs that Galicia has, but you should use your interventions to transfer, at least, proposals that have a certain coherence. In any case, we will continue to work with the workers of Ferroatlantics, who are threatened — I said — by a disorderly and unfair energy policy that is carrying out the socialist government, supported by the tides of Podemos and supported by its group in a clear and direct manner. We'll also be with the Alcoa workers, some workers with whom, in their demands for concretion to the Government, we've worked together to propose that sales book that we expect to provide a solution. But the Alcoa workers know perfectly well and this government knows perfectly well that the Alcoa solution goes through a competitive price, and if the Government of Pedro Sánchez doesn't put a competitive price on the electro-intensive industries, then Alcoa won't have a solution. That's the reality, Mrs. Presas. We are and will also be with the workers — whom you do not name them — of Meirama, because the workers of Meirama, unfortunately, continue without alternatives for an early closure and for the little seriousness and the little rigour of the Government of Pedro Sanchez. I'm telling you this because it seems that you, once again, differ between first-time workers and second-time workers, workers from those you want to defend your position and workers who simply understand that they must be out of the general interests of this autonomous community. We will be with the workers of Ferroatlantics, the workers of Alcoa and also the workers of Meirama, which you, unfortunately, cannot say. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] As for the magic solution of the Galego Nationalist Block, I repeat the offer: bring this camera and present its proposal with its real impact, in terms of costs, that it would have for the Greeks, for the companies and for the families its proposal. They never brought this camera or moved that impact. If I think that you should adjust a little bit to reality, because of course you are making the difference in the energy supply with other European countries. You should know — and if not — that should be documented — that in Germany thirty-six percent of energy is produced with coal and that in France seventy-two percent is produced with nuclear energy, and that our companies, Ferroatlantica and Alcoa, have to compete with these countries in international markets. But you should also set the differences that we have in the energy transition approach, I've already told you, the early closure of the thermal power plant is jeopardizing Galicia's continuing to exceed energy. Why do you want to talk about surpluses in Galicia's energy production defending the closure of Meirama and the Bridges? Who do you want to fool? If the thermal power plants are closed in Galicia, Galicia will have a deficit in electricity production of 4,306 gigavats. That's the reality, Mrs. Presas, you don't want to fool anyone. Of course, this government won't fool you. Madam Presas, we will continue to work, and unfortunately the BNG energy curriculum goes on to support the payment of renewable premiums in the years 2008, 2009 and 2010, which generated a debt of twenty-four billion euros to the Spaniards, and also when they were next to the Socialist Government, which condemned more than three billion euros to the electrics by not claiming the cost of transition to competition. That's your energy policy curriculum; it doesn't contain this government. If you can count on a government that supports industry, supports Ferroatlantics and ultimately supports industrial fabric in Galicia. They abandon independent arguments that do not lead to any kind of solution to the productive tissue in Galicia and take care of everyone and each of Galician workers, they stop distinguishing between first and second workers. For this government all workers deserve support and support to continue their activity and bet on industry in Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u104	Thank you, Counselor. We continue with another change of agenda, in this case, questions to the Government. Da Luca Chao Pérez and Da Maria de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda, from G.P. of In Marea, on the goals of the launch of the educational centres of a campaign of child and youth awareness in favour of mining in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u105	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u106	Thank you, President. Good morning. We want to start by thanking the members of the environmental platforms that accompany us today and that put us on the track of this matter. Counsellor, we regret that it has to be you who has come to answer, because it is the second question that, in fifteen days, we have asked the Teacher and that, for some reason, he does not come to answer. She's not interested in sex education, and she's not interested in environmental education; she's obviously not interested in anything that has to do with the education of our daughters and our children. Today we want to talk about the complaint made by the Network against destructive mining in Galicia, which warned that February 12th was being held in the City of Culture an act of the mining lobby in which a kit of materials, supposedly educational, was presented for primary, child and secondary children; an event to present a more campaign to try to wash the face of the mining lobby in Galicia. The Contrimination Network reported that while the Administration devotes great efforts and public resources to these campaigns of social engineering, dozens of mining operations continue to fail to restore or, worse still, become aggravated outbreaks of pollution, as illustrated by the landmines of Miramontes, Casalonga or Touro, around the capital of Greece. It is, at least, curious that the Galician Union finances and intends to accommodate these types of actions in schools, that nothing has to do with the educational needs of the country's children and children, and that they also conceal the predatory reality and environmental, heritage and landscape degradation of many of these projects. It's a shame and an educational aberration that denies the need to impart content like sexual education in classrooms; it says there's no time for that, but there's certainly time to defend the interests of private companies. What do you call this if it's not indoctrination? Indoctrination into an economic model without future and unsustainable. That is not education, it is ideology, and it is very far away — by the way — from what should be the defense of the common interest and of the general interest, which should always prevail; a bold attempt to try to demobilise the citizenship that we — we regret — will not work. Indoctrination, moreover, speaks, because materials — as I said before — supposedly educationally include a lot of inaccuracies, when not just lies. Let me give you an example: in the materials mentioned, it is argued that mining is an activity that brings value to the comarcas in which it is installed, helping to fix population in the territory. Do the numbers say otherwise? What does it matter? We're installed in the time of posverity and there rigor always comes down. But in schools, Counselor, he should defend himself. If we analyze the demographic data of the 20 years — between 1971 and 1991 — in which, by setting an example, the Touro-O Pino mine was open, the population loss was much more charged — 22.8 percent in the Pino and 24.5 percent in the Touro — than in the next 20 years — between 1991 and 2011 — in which the mine was closed, which was 10.2 percent and 18.8 percent.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u108	With what objective will these contents be disseminated in the educational centres of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u109	Your time is over, Mrs. Chao. Thank you. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u110	How sad, Mrs Chao; that she had saddened her intervention to Galicia. How sad! [[Applause]] According to you, the more than 11 000 people working in the mining industry today in Galicia must be ashamed of their profession; in your opinion, students and students studying the university and non-university careers associated with the mining industry in Galicia must also be ashamed to aspire to do so, and, in your opinion, schools that, in their educational autonomy, want to report on the mining industry in Galicia should also be ashamed to introduce an activity that has always been present in Galicia. Because I remind you, Mrs Chao, that our ancestors were thieves, they were farmers and also -- yes! -- they were miners. [[Applause]] Look: this comic, The Treasure of the Stars, which is one of the elements that is spreading the Galician Mining Chamber, has as its protagonist a woman, a woman who works in the mining industry and who simply reaches the school center of her daughter to tell, as do the rest of the mothers and parents, to whom she dedicates. [[Mr. Count López shows you a book to the members of the House.]] In your opinion, the daughters of these professionals must surely be ashamed. Next: the comic indicates how a mineral resource is investigated, what are the resources that exist in Galicia and what they serve, and is also told of the great geochemistry and researcher worldwide Isidro Parga Pondal, member of the Brotherhood of Speech and creator, in 1940, of the Xeological Laboratory of Laxe. In your opinion, this reality must also be erased for new generations. It is already surprising that you say that mining does not create wealth in Galicia—it is surprising—and that it does not serve to fix population in rural areas either. I think you simply don't know the reality of the mining sector in Galicia. Mrs. Chao, if your group wants to close the mine, tell me openly; but, of course, they would have to imagine a totally different world: surely a life without electricity, no energy, no housing, no roads, no cars and no technology. Because all this has as its origin mining; you probably don't know it. I think they must abandon simple arguments, and please collaborate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u111	Thank you, Counselor. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u112	...to dignify mining activity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u113	Thank you. Thank you. Your time is up. Replica, Mrs. Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u114	Mr. Conde has been about to thrill me, that tearous tone... Whoever has to be ashamed of you is to spend the money of the entire citizenry on defense of private interests that go against the general interest. Whoever's to be ashamed is you, who's leaving the country turned into an industrial desert. Who has to be ashamed and give a lot of explanations is you. They're funding this campaign is outrageous and outrageous. That the Council of Galicia makes educational centres available to a business lobby to develop its advertising campaigns in favour of an exhausted economic model irresponsible, and that above funding this propaganda is outrageous and scandalous. Funding this campaign is another example of how the Union renounces defending the interests of the majority of society, one more example of how when the Union has to choose between general interest and private interest, it always chooses the second. Let's hope they rectify as soon as possible. We expect it, but the most important thing is that we expect it to be active and organized citizenship against industrial policy in different environmental platforms, some of which today accompany us; it awaits the ANPAs, outraged by such a diswill, and, of course, all people committed to the future of this country. Listen, ladies, listen! Listen to the cry of citizenship, hear the cry of Fridays for the future. The country that's coming from green, they're going to listen to you on Friday. He talks about how to make our lives sustainable, of a necessary ecological transition, of intergenerational justice so that our daughters don't pay for the dismissals of today's industry and of co-responsibility with the country we have for the future. This would be about what a responsible government committed to the future would be teaching in the classrooms, about this. About this will be what the girls and boys from all over the world will shout next Friday at the climate strike, and from here we want to tell them: we'll be with you! Say you, Counselor, which side you are on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Closing round of this question, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u116	Don't be angry, Mrs. Chao, it's not worth it. I, for the first time in a parliamentary session, saw faces of perplexity in the opposition because his intervention was really surprising. Mining activity in Galicia -- I don't know if you know it -- is a legal activity; it seems that mining activity in Galicia is an illegal activity, and you should know that this activity is regulated by a law, curiously, adopted by you and the Socialist Party. And you seem to forget that law. I refer to the then advisor to Innovation and Industry, Mr. Blanco Álvarez, who said in this chamber that he was convinced that mining activity is compatible with environmental respect, job creation and wealth creation—Diary of sessions on November 27, 2007. I don't know where your intervention may include compliance with the law your group supported in 2007. [[Applause]] Mrs. Chao, I believe that the materials that are developing by the Galician Mining Chamber... should know that the House is a public law corporation that brings together natural and legal persons who engage in mining-related activities and who has in their task of promoting mining education. This campaign is within the functions it has and the obligations of the camera itself to develop these performances. And, Mrs. Chao, you've always talked about biology and mining in teaching; I don't know why you want to remove the mining from teaching. I don't know why you don't want to allow our children to have information about good practices in mining and a sector that guarantees sustainable mining, I don't know why you don't want to have that information. The materials edited by the Mining Chamber are available to schools, are available to teachers, and in their educational autonomy they are free to use them or not. And they're free to counter other examples that they think are right. [[Murmurs.]] Only now in Marea would it be necessary to oppose the fact that the children and the children of Greece and Greece can know different visions and form their own ideas! Where do you want to take the teaching, the productive fabric and the mining itself in Galicia? Mrs. Chao, I don't know if En Marea supports the mining sector; I see you don't. This government will support it and work to continue to dignify...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u117	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u118	...the mining activity in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u119	Your time is up. Thank you. Question by José Luis Rivas Cruz and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the actions carried out or planned by the Government of Galicia to promote the maintenance of the productive activity of the Poligal company in Narón
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u120	Question by Mr. José Luis Rivas Cruz, of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u121	Thank you, Mr. President. Last February 22nd, in one of the Barcelona Mercantil judges, Poligal presented a competition for creditors and cessation of activity with the application of an ERE of one hundred eight fixed workers and six possible workers. This new one was told treason to a company committee that took possession — as it says — and the announcement was made through videoconference. The operators of this Catalan capital holding are an average age around the age of 50. The company has brought millions of losses in the last five years and has little viability in a sector that —din — is suffering from excessive installed power. When the new factory was announced installed in Poland, the company made it clear that Narón's plant should not be threatened. And so, on June 26, last year, he declared that Polygal would be a reference at the international level in flexible packaging solutions: "The Naron Factory" — literally — "is the most versatile plant with the broadest flexible packaging solutions of Polygal, not going into conflict with any of the other plants that the group has." And those responsible -- we would say irresponsible -- of the group were analyzing some investment scenarios to improve the productivity and efficiency of railway stations. The Peralada Group introduced six years ago an ERE which has brought 40 people to unemployment from the Narón factory. That's right, before this, you've seen the relocation of production to Portugal, where you've got another factory. And, as we said, a couple of years ago, he opened another in Poland, with an investment of 40 million. That, yes, they've been here for more than 20 years without making any investment, with the danger it has to the productive processes of a sector where technology is key. Finally, Counsellor, a story that repeats itself while the Government of the Union, absent from the industrial policies of this country, looks elsewhere without saying anything: Alcohol, Ferroatlantics and, once again, Ferrol; loss of industrial muscle fruit from the economic model of its People's Party that leads us to a desert and which condemns us to a generalized and precarious tertiary sector, without industrial activity of quality. Little by little it matters that Polygal is a unique factory in the state and that its production develops a strategic role of added value. The market — the new god on the right — commands, and you obey the mandates of those who rule them with resignation and humility. They don't win elections, they assume day and day too; that's right, with funds of origin... let's leave it there. So, Counsellor, since the BNG and the police workers — who are present — we want to know: what actions has taken or will take the Government of Greece to promote the maintenance of the productive activity of the Poligal company in Narón? We really want you to answer this question; don't wander away. And, above all, please don't use that ranci paternalism that you used in the last question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u122	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u123	Mr. Rivas, if by paternalism you intend to defend the mining activity in Galicia, defend the dignity of workers in the mining sector, defend responsible mining, respect for the environment, urbanism and compliance with the law and all regulations in Galicia, then I will understand that I am a paternalist. [[Murmurs.]] I'm sorry that you don't agree with this position. [[Applause]] In fact, I also greet the police workers, with whom we have already had the opportunity to hold different meetings. I personally also attend a meeting with the company committee itself. And indeed, we are in a very difficult situation -- I can't hide it -- because there's a closure decision on the part of the company that seems to be unmovable, and that therefore needs not only the workers' reaction but, of course, also this government. I don't know why you come here to say that the Government is absent or that the Government is looking elsewhere. The first thing this government did was call the representatives of the workers, meet with them and identify what kind of measures we could push to reverse that situation. We've already had meetings with the workers, with the company, and we're already in touch with our own contest administrator so we can identify how the following steps can be. The workers know perfectly well that this government is next to them, that this government is their ally and that, of course, we will defend them. First of all, their interests, and secondly, to identify any measures that can give continuity to industrial activity. The approach is very simple, those are the steps we are developing by the Government; there is a double approach: a first approach of legality, and another industrial approach. The approach of legality comes to act with the utmost strength in defending the workers' interests in the competitive process that has begun, to identify and work on these financial organizational causes and the possible non-compliance in which the company might incur and thus defend the interests of the workers and accompany the workers in the competitive process. And secondly, an industrial approach: we have set up a working group to identify the industrial capacities that the plant has and, above all, the search for investors that can continue industrial activity with realism within the difficulties. But, of course, we're not going to give up working to identify any solution that can give continuity to the work of Poligal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u124	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. "Industrial approach," they said with Isobar and there we are. The Government is absent — and I continue to reiterate it — because since 2009, which is the first triumphal year of the Faixoo era, until today the occupation in the Greek industry has been reduced by 13 billion people. Aren't we gonna have to celebrate, Mr. Conde? Because all of this is leading us to a tertiary service economy that keeps us away from Galicia's productive specialization in value-added sectors. And you don't paint anything in this tingle. Where is the industry that bets for value added and quality jobs? Look, Counsellor: Police workers who were in the middle of the front door of this parliament asking for an interview — even those who accompany us today as guests — continue to believe that a government must be a government and that it must bet at all times by the people of the common people, who live day by day, who intend to have a stable job and who wants to eat every day, without asking for what corresponds to them by natural law. And you don't answer, because you defend and bet on unnamed capitals, those who don't understand sacrifices or sweats, those who take advantage of public money to relocate and make cash extras. Well, all those people are gonna start believing that you're not government, that you don't deserve to be there, because they don't even want to do it or want to do it. You're a fraud, and you're a fraud as a government. Look: take advantage of your time and keep talking to me; follow me and talk to me on a case-by-case basis. What actions has taken or will take — seriously! — this government to promote the maintenance of the productive activity of Poligal in Narón?, what are they going to do?, what are they doing? Because you said textually, "we're going to defend." Are we going or are we defending? There's a difference, because time runs, and runs against the police workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u126	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Close this question, Economic, Employment and Industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Rivas, you have been telling me about the industrial policy of this government since 2009. I appreciate this approach, because the only thing the Marea Group has shown since its constitution is that the only industrial policy that you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u128	Quiet, quiet. You know everyone in the group you're in.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, I'm referring to the BNG, that those of the En Marea Group were their comrades not long ago. [[One honourable Member speaks words which are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] In any case, Mr. Rivas, I regret that in the industrial policy that you defend -- I told your companion Press -- you just have first-time workers and second-rate workers, and in that context it's not an industrial policy. I'm sorry that you come here with a paper, that you read it and that you don't listen to the first intervention, in which I clearly transferred to you what are the actions you carried out this government working together with the workers, meeting with the workers, meeting with the company, identifying the work together with the contest administrator and having a very clear focus on what you have to do. Why do you tell me that this government isn't working with the police workers? Honestly, what you can't come here to ask you a question, to give you an answer and to deny you the content of your own answer. In any case, I ask them not to be confused and not to play the title, because that's the only thing you want when you talk about industrial reality in Galicia. We're still growing up in Galicia, Mr. Rivas. I refer it to the data of registered unemployment: we have 15,427 unemployed less in industrial than at the beginning of the first legislation. If I go to the last four years, we've recovered 19,200 industrial jobs according to the Labour Population Survey and therefore there's a clear recovery of the industrial sector and a clear consolidation of economic recovery in Galicia, also from industry itself. It's true that the status of Polygal is a limited situation. We're working together with the workers themselves and we're going to broker everything that's needed both with the company and with the various agents to solve the status of Poligal, and of course, if we're going to work to identify those opportunities that can be developed and which, therefore, allow the continuation of the action by Poligal. And in that context, the workers know that in this government they have an ally and that with you all they have are banners and photos. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u130	Thank you, Counselor. We greet the 5th primary students from Vicente Otero Valcárcel, Carral, and their teachers and companions as well. Welcome to Parliament. Question by Mr Francisco Casal Vidal and two other Members of the G.P. in Marea, on the political, administrative and legislative actions that will develop the Government of Galicia to prevent or discourage the relocation of very profitable and essential companies to the industrial and productive fabric of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u131	Whenever you want, ask the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u132	Good morning, Counselor. Let us hope, in this answer, that he will answer specific issues and, above all, that he will not re-draw false data, as Mr President has done and how you have just done. Do you want us to send you the industrial employment link in Galicia in 2008 and 2019? You want us to send her? Forty thousand less. Don't lie. But how can it be? It's amazing! Really, how can data be twisted this way? Mr. Rivas was benevolent, spoke of thirteen thousand; for no, I just reviewed the data and, on February 28th, forty thousand minus, Counselor. Then another lie by Mr. Feijóo hallucinating: first he says we don't know what is the industrial production index, that we are ignorant... well, it's his usual policy to come here in a prepotently insulting plan. Well, we do know what the industrial production index is. And we also know that the industrial production index, at the beginning of 2009, was at index 140.071; on December 31, 2018 was at 110.054, that is, thirty points less, that we also know to stay, huh? But the reality is that he also lied: he said that we're growing more than half; for no, we're growing half the average of Spain. [[Applause]] In Spain it grew in 2018 a 1.2 e, in Galicia, 0.6 points. That's the truth of the data. And the workers of Bosch and Poligal -- which we're going to talk about -- of relocation -- don't want stories, don't want you to talk about that Galicia Imaginary where In Marea doesn't stop closing companies. Tell me that company has closed in Marea for the two years we've been in this parliament; stop stories and answer concrete matters. What performances are you going to perform? [[Murmurs.]] And I'm going to talk to you about not meeting, not milongs: concrete facts. Are you really going to meet Poligal and Bosch and the business groups for them to negotiate alternatives and the future for the Narón plant and the Vigo work center? And at those meetings, are you going to tell them that they're going to investigate their accounts to see if they're producing accounting engineering practices that might be changing the results to justify those EREs? Are you going to do that research in Galicia? Those are concrete things. Will the Government of the State be urged to enact laws that prevent or discourage relocation, how are the Government of France and the Government of Italy doing in a very powerful way? Do you think the Galician Board of Directors strengthens and supports the police workers in their demand for compliance with the sentence that obliges them to make investments that improve the competitiveness of Narón's plant? Because that's a judgement by the Galician High Court of Justice that the company has been failing for five years.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u133	Thank you, Mr. Casal, thank you. Your time is up. Your time is up. Thank you. [[Mr. Casal Vidal pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, it's over, you know the counselor the question, and then you have another round. No, your time is up. That's it. [[Applause]] Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u134	Mr. Casal, it doesn't mean the beginning of President Feijóo's legislation in 2008; I know that the data is better, but President Feijóo took the presidency in April 2009. So you're permanently referring to the year 2008, and I understand that you want to have the Bipartite as a reference. [[Murmurs.]] Registered unemployment. April 2009: 34.919. February 2019: 19,492. We have exactly, Mr. Casal, 15,427 unemployed less than at the beginning of the first legislation. That's the data.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u135	Mr. Lake, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u136	If we talk about affiliations, we find ourselves having 2,128 more than in January 2018. In any case, you don't want to talk about industrial politics, because, if you want, we're talking about Elnosa. Do you want us to talk about Elnosa and her position? You want us to talk about Reganosa? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You want us to talk about Ence? Of course, don't... of course, you don't want to talk...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u137	Mr. Casal, then you have another round. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u138	...of all the jobs that you, first of all, don't defend, and don't want to talk about the twenty-seven thousand jobs that are in danger in Galicia for the policies that your government partner is applying here and in Madrid. In Marea, therefore, I remind you that it has supported budgets that harm Galicia, I remind you that En Marea has supported a government that is actually developing an energy policy that is harming electrointensive companies and that is harming the whole production fabric. That's why, Mr. Casal, you can't come here to teach industrial policy lessons. I've already transferred to him the performances that we're developing both with Poligal and with the rest of the situations that have difficulties. What I'd like to know is why the En Marea Group does not support the Business Implementation Act and therefore you do not support the implementation of companies in Galicia. They support administrative simplification and support reduced taxation. Today, in Galicia, he's investing. It is investing in the industrial sector, investing in the agri-food sector and investing in the forest sector. Finally, we are driving an industrial Galicia from the point of view of the different productive sectors, and we have succeeded in having — as I said to you — bases exist in Galicia to consolidate a new economic model based on innovation and value creation, because that is what we are working on. We do so bearing in mind that the challenges of digitization and globalization are there, that we cannot ignore them, but we are convinced, and that is why the economy in Galicia and employment in Galicia are acting better than in Spain, because here is a coherent industrial policy. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u139	Thank you, Counselor. Thank you, your time is up. Replica, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u140	Mr. Counselor, the truth is... look what I respect you, but it's a shame your answer is, it's a shame! Answer, answer what you're asked; we'll talk about Elnosa, we'll talk about everything we need to talk about when there's initiatives on those issues. Answer the specific questions we ask him. Will you support the police workers in achieving...?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u141	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u142	Will you support the police workers...?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u143	Silence, silence, silence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u144	You see, they don't want to give an answer, I'll bet they don't answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u145	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u146	Bully instead of giving an answer, noise instead of answering. That's the reality. Will you support the police workers so that the company will comply with the decision of the Supreme Court of Galicia to invest in its plant? Are you going to investigate the accounts of this company, which works with a single marketer that allows you to make all the accounts for the rest of the factories of the rest of Europe?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u147	Quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u148	In the case of Bosch, are you going to act on Junta de Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u149	Don't make it hard, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u150	... together with the Government of Spain to avoid, from the Data Protection Act, that the data of all of us — from all the Greeks — march to Colombia or Egypt? Will you allow it? Are you going to do specific things? More concrete things: does the Galician Union consider it necessary to amend the General Telecommunications Law so that voice and data services and audiovisual services to Spanish customers should be given from Spain, as has just legislate Italy? For example. Concrete: Does the Galician Union consider it necessary to develop campaigns of...?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u151	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u152	There's no way! Of course, they don't want to talk about these matters, they just want to talk about it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u153	Quiet, please. Don't contribute. Quiet. You don't contribute, and if there's no noise, it doesn't contribute. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u154	The gentlemen of the People's Group just want to talk about those hundreds of companies that In Marea's been closed in the last two years, that hundreds of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u155	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u156	No, it's not over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u157	No, it's over. Sorry, no, sorry. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u158	I've been interrupted seven times!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u159	Quiet. No, I'm sorry. No, no, no...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u160	I've been interrupted seven times!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u161	No, no, your time is up. That's what I do; it's over. It's not in the use of the word. Mr. Casal, I call you in order once. [[Mr. Casal Vidal pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Casal, I call you in order once. Your time is up. [[Applause]] Close the question, Counselor. And, silence, please. All sides, all sides. [[A honourable Member: Now!]] No, no, respect is mutual. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, I know where I am, I've been here for many more years than you, and I know that this is a game where you sometimes get and sometimes get. We have to be able to listen. This is the political game, it's the political game. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, I'm not going into that dialogue now. They all respect the use of the word. [[Balbordo.]] Counselor, close this question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I read textually the question of the En Marea Group: "What political, administrative and legislative actions do you intend to develop the Galician Union to prevent or discourage that very profitable and essential companies for the industrial and productive fabric of the Greek are relocated, with the loss of thousands of jobs?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh I'm answering this question from the Marea Group. I regret that you intend to use the workers, once again, to try to defend the inconsistencies of your industrial policy. [[Murmurs.]] And I'm sorry, Mr. Casal, that you just can't defend here, in this parliament, your permanent complicity with the instability that Spain has experienced in recent months. [[Applause]] That's the reality. And also in Galicia, also in Galicia because you too are accomplices, indeed, Mr. Casal, are accomplices to the closure of Elnosa and the closure of Meirama. And they should be ashamed not to defend Meirama's workers and Elnosa's workers, just as they now intend to stay well here just to take a picture and stand in front of a sign. That's regrettable, Mr. Casal, absolutely regrettable. [[Applause]] Surely, if you were worried about the twenty-seven thousand jobs that perish in Galicia, Galicia and its group would be much better off. As they continue to look at Venezuela, unfortunately, surely in industrial policy you will not be able to teach any kind of lesson. [[Laughter]] [[Mr. Casal Vidal pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I'll take her...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u163	Excuse me, please. Please, Mr. Casal, second call to order, and I warn you: another call to order and I have to expel him, something I do not wish; I do not wish to expel anyone, but that is my obligation. Second call to order, Mr. Casal. [[Murmurs.]] Go ahead, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u164	Mr. Casal, tell me about political, administrative and legislative actions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u165	Let's end this whole evil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u166	Why did you not support the Industrial Implementation Act, which is allowing the development of the wind sector in Galicia? Why have you not supported this law, which is also allowing the forest sector to develop? [[A Member of Parliament: It is delocalising companies.]] Why did they not support the law that is allowing the reduction of taxation for the implementation of new investments? Why aren't you also supporting industrial policy on industry 4.0 and innovation on the part of this government? This is what we're doing, and I turn to the results, Mr. Casal, I refer to the results. I refer to how more than a billion euros are being invested in the industrial sector in Galicia at the moment through PSA, Benteller, Televés and Bandalux. I am referring to the five million euros that are being invested by Estrella Galicia, Inleit, Entrepinares, Dairylac, Coren or the Cuevas Group. I refer to the more than 300 million planned at the biomass plant in Greenalia or Finsa. And all this, Mr. Casal, is our industrial policy. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u167	Thank you, Counselor. Your time is up. We continue with non-law proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela and Ms. Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the impulse of the Galician Union to convene a meeting of the sectoral table dealing with the specific problems of the groups of CAP professionals, emergency services and urgent health transport
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u168	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Torrado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u169	Thank you, President. Good morning. To make it clear — if they don't call me in order again, which is only called on one side—, I feel very, very proud of the past of my party, of the whole past of my party. A lot. [[Applause]] And I think it's normal for Mr Feijóo to talk about the Socialist Party's past; he's probably ashamed of the past of his own party. We can talk, since it's about recentralizing and the Constitution, about when Aznar said he had to be belligerent with the Constitution. We can talk about the founding fathers of the People's Party. And I feel very proud of José Luís Rodríguez Zapatero, Pedro Sánchez, Felipe González, Alfonso Guerra, Josep Borrell, Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba, Emilio Pérez Touriño, González Laxe...; very proud of all of them. And look, I'm from Arousa, I'm from Arousa, and I wouldn't be proud of photographing myself with Martial Golden, drug-trafficking, or having an easy thirst for Terito. [[Applause]] If they want to talk about the past, we'll talk about the past. And to talk about the past, you must remember that they have mayors who have been convicted of drug trafficking...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u170	We're going to the emergency health transport. [[Murmurs.]] Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u171	...in the exercise of their functions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u172	Sorry! Mr. Losada, you know, in the next legislation you may be President of Parliament, but we have to wait for the next legislation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u173	It would be better for the President of Parliament than you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u174	Now, for now, it's me, and here's the debate of the modero myself, and now I tell you to go to the urgent health transport.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u175	The GNP is about more than the urgent health transport. It's about health in general.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u176	I took the last one, talk about health.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u177	Yeah, I'm talking about health, which is important.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u178	That's why.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u179	It's just that drug trafficking... here's a gentleman who laughs a lot about drug trafficking; it's regrettable. Yeah, yeah, laugh. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u180	Silence! Health. Health. Silence, Mr. Pazos! Silence! Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u181	Yes, that to interrupt like this, better silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u182	Quiet. Health.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u183	Do I also have a photo with Pablo Escobar?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u184	Mr. Pazos, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u185	Mr. President, with all due respect, if you haven't heard, I'll tell you in the microphone to stay. There's a MP from the People's Party who just said I have a photo with Pablo Escobar. If you don't say anything... forgive me! [[Murmurs.]] Excuse me for a moment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u186	What we're not going to do is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u187	Mr. President, excuse me for a moment. It's a joke to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u188	I didn't hear exactly what he said...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u189	Well, but I heard...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u190	...but in any case... please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u191	...and, therefore, I'm going to make an appeal to allow me to answer that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u192	Please! Please! Please, let us put some rest in this debate! Mr. Paz Couñago, did you make that statement? Yes or no? Did you say this gentleman took a picture of himself with Mr. Escobar? [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] So let's continue with the debate: health. [[Various ladies and gentlemen: No!]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u193	And now, if you don't mind, you told me: Have you got Mr. Feijó a photo with Martial Dorado?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u194	Don't ask him. Health.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u195	Do you have Mr. Feijó a photo with Martial Dorado, a drug dealer and responsible for many deaths on my land?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u196	Mr. Torrado, no dialogue. Health. Mr. Torado, I'm going to have to call him in order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u197	No, if you're used to calling order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u198	I'm telling you to go to the point, don't make it difficult... it's very easy to make it difficult for the president when he's speaking. What I'm asking you to do is to renew the situation and go to health, if not, I'm going to have to call it in order and I don't want to do it. I really have to call the order to whoever goes, which I don't like. I don't like this. Please, health care!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u199	May I speak, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u200	Talk about health whatever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u201	Thank you, Mr. President, I'll be able to speak. I'd like to check that you have your equanimity very well worked and you can draw attention to anyone. But I'd like to know later, if you can answer me, if Mr. Feijóo photographed himself with Martial Dorado. I think so. And if they don't know who the Golden Marshal is, I'll tell them later. We're talking about health, and since they're talking about re-centralizing — and, of course, I'd like to ask Ernest Lluch when we're talking about health — that health that the People's Party voted against — because we're re-centralising — that law that decentralized the health system against what the People's Party voted against. [[Murmurs.]] Surely, when Mr. Feijóo talks about knowing the past, he doesn't probably know the others, because he doesn't have that ability to know the others, and he knows theirs, so he talks about the others. But if we talk about recentralizing and decentralizing health, which is how best it works, we can remember that law of Ernest Lluch; by the way, the man who killed some bastards, those about whom you later said — to speak of the past — that we were betraying the victims. That's what happened, too. You'll be very much accompanied by that past of yours. When they talk about health, they should recognize that the system implemented by socialist governments was probably the most successful, with all its defects. So, from that, when they talk about the past, if they don't mind, they ask permission to talk about some things, because they still have to ask permission to talk about some things. No, don't worry, I'm not that important. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u202	Mr. Pajos, I call you the order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u203	Finally! Finally!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u204	Call the order. I'll repeat. Excuse me a moment, I'll stop the time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u205	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u206	I'm going to stop the time, because I'm going to go over the calls to order you to see if this really should happen in a parliament. There are calls to order the following Members: Mr Bará, Mrs Montse Prado, Mr Losada — with two, and a warning of expulsion — Mr Torrado — with one — Mr Casal — with two, and a warning of expulsion — and Mr Pazos — with one. This is today's service sheet, and the plenary is not finished yet. I'm just asking you to reflect. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Time's up. Then, Mr. Torrado, continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u207	A demonstration of the president's equanimity, the call balance in order. Well, today, in a proposal for a law on health that has become a little confused because of the People's Party, we have been proposing, from our group, that there is a problem of deep conflict in the system caused by a fairly sovereign Council of Galicia — as we have been holding up for a long time — that it defends another matter of squeezing or drowning its own workers and of isolation from the problems that other workers have. Valla, for example, is the case with workers in the health transport sector. The sector where workers have a problem with leaving their jobs, with respect to compliance with the agreement, the company, and where the Galician Union usually claims that it is a work problem and that it doesn't care. We have just seen, even in the previous question, how the Council of Galicia uses viciously and instrumentalizes workers from other companies to carry, in some cases — if it is not from the People's Party — against the Government of the State, even against the Government of any other country in the world or against Europe. But when it comes to workers who are of their own public services, even if they're in a system concession scheme, they don't want to take care of anything and assume it's a job problem and they don't have to do any intervention or at least not even control the situation. There's a problem for ambulance workers: a company that says that, with respect to the minimum inter-professional wage, it's going to have to stop doing all the work it did, and a competition of more than one hundred twenty million euros; by the way, it's judicialized, because it's a company owned by a member of the People's Party at the time, by Valladolid, who already had the ambulances labeled and equipped before the condition strike came out. He was very intelligent and knew the matter perfectly. Or a problem of conflict in other areas of emergency services, like with the CAP professionals, who have come together and fail to meet their demands. Or like the emergency services with which they have a problem on a regular basis. Problems like, for example, that of the CAP, to which the People's Party even accused, or undervalued, with a certain sarcasm, the president himself; he did it in a rather ridiculous way, appealing, I think, to recall, that of the seventeen percent: he complained that there was a CAP where there was a 17 percent of professionals down; one in six. A 17 percent! Allow me just one detail, because they complained that a CAP had 17 percent casualties in one day: can you look at the government's blue seats and tell me not if 17 percent is missing, but if there's 17 percent of the government today? Not at all. Not zero percent, which is the maximum number there can be, because there's no one. You're attacking professionals, even insulting professionals about the exercise of their rights, and from that, considering that the system is conflicting because the professionals want: that they're upset, that they go to demonstrations because they're given snacks or they're paid buses, and they're even underestimating the fact that there are investigations open by prosecutors about situations that occurred in emergency services in this country. The recent health barometer points perfectly, again, and even more insistently on the real situation we have in the health system. Health works thanks to highly valued professionals, and despite managers, where more than three out of four Greeks say there is a need for changes in the management of the health system. It happens, therefore, that we have a joint that tightens and drowns the workers, while washing their hands with others. It tightens and drowns those of the CAP and seems to enjoy the suffering of the workers, who are giving up rights only by focusing on the labor problems they have. Because, only, what they're doing with the strike, for now, is giving up rights; they're resigning to keep the system alert to an existing problem about them. And there's a problem also with ambulance workers, the ones that the board basically forgets, because it prefers to get on the company's side. Dialogue, so necessary, is not assumed, it is exercised, and that's not what the Galician Union is doing. What do we propose through this initiative? Let's plan basically open the dialogue channels. We know that it is impossible with the current direction, because it has shown that it does not want and enjoys seeing the health workers suffer, but we do consider it necessary, in addition to changing counseling, to change policies, also in attitude. Dialogue is an attitude, and therefore we believe that this council needs, from that point on, to have the ability to dialogue, and as it does not have at present, so we add to our usual request — that we believe that we have already considered enough, and then we will see the passage of time as well as quite supported even within the People's Party — of the need for change in this council, which is accompanied by a change of attitude and that we open the dialogues necessary for workers who make a public service unattainable and of the highest quality to have at least the minimum recognition that is deserved in a system like this. Thanking you for your attention and waiting for the contributions you can make, and with the wish that you can be supported unanimously, I remind you again: I am very proud to be a militant of the Socialist Party; I suppose the People's Party feels nothing proud of its history.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u208	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u209	Very good morning. This accumulation of non-law proposals, although they all talk about health, they talk about different things, but I suppose the People's Party and the President, in their prerogative, will not want us to spend so much time talking about health.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u210	This one is not accumulated, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u211	Didn't you put three accumulates?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u212	This one is not accumulated.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u213	Well, I didn't look at the order. Sorry!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u214	She's sorry. This one is not accumulated.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u215	Well, I'm sorry, then; I saw three accumulated.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u216	No, there are accumulated two; this one is not. It's okay. It's all wrong.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u217	In any case, I would say this in the reply: we will support the Socialist Party's initiative. We have often brought to this Parliament the situation of road health transport. And, of course, we also demand on several occasions that the Galician Union must cease to be a very important part of the problem in order to become a part of the solution, and a part of the solution because what it has been doing for too long is becoming inappropriate to say that it is a problem between companies and their workers, but it has forgotten and wants to make deaf ears to which we are talking about a company with an essential service, an essential service that is part of the public health, an essential service that has helped in really unsatisfactory conditions — being mild — in conditions in which it was warned that it would have as consequences that it would be impossible to give a quality public service with that concession, a concession that was already very adjusted at the price that was being granted, and, being very adjusted, it would be given three million euros under the price of exit, to a company that was already known to be able to give the service, a concession that would already be very adjusted at the price that would not give us the quality, and it would not give us the benefit of the service, and it would not give us the value, because. A service that is being provided in conditions denounced, by active and passive, by workers and workers, denounced by groups of patients who receive the service, as far as they are concerned, which are more sick than those who have to go, as far as there are not enough ambulances, as far as we have already reported a number of deficiencies in this Parliament. We're talking about workers who are demanding a collective agreement that has not been renewed for years and that, in view of the fact that the agreement does not give businesses, they want to go over the workers' backs that lack of budgetary resources. Of course, from the BNG we have asked — I insist — on numerous occasions to Sergas that is involved in giving an answer, and what we see is that, far from doing so, he is allowing a conflict to come to an indefinite situation of strike, which, of course, is the scene that no one wants. It seems, of course, as the People's Party and Sergas are acting, which is the best scenario in which they are, the scene of conflict and letting things solve for themselves. It seems clear that this conflict will not be solved by itself and that it is necessary to involve Sergas. They are being affected by workers and workers, but it is, above all, being affected by the quality of care, which is the one you are suffering, but it was already being affected before the strike, and, if you were not seeing more affected, it was by the involvement of the workers and workers, who, like the CAP, are two services that work in elbows, is by the delivery and professionalism of the workers and you know very well, and are abusing that good and good work; they are doing it in a way that is certainly very indecent. I fully support the initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u218	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Miranda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u219	Thank you, Mr. President. I do want to talk about health today. We've come to debate the situation of several urgent care devices in this country, and I can't feel any closer to their reality and their demands, because I've trained myself as an emergency MIR in the clinic, because I've worked for several years as a precarious CAP and share great concerns with health emergency technicians of 061, to whom I recognize them worth and gratitude. Florence Nightingale, a feminist nurse, said that if there was no one to handle the discontent, we would never achieve anything better and that little can be done under the tyranny of fear. The people of the CAP, the ambulances and the clinic's emergencies have bravely, coherently and firmly defended the sick. Now the professionals of the whole primary are being framed by calling the strike, even today they make a strike call, and they also resign the bosses and the bosses of Vigo. This is the unanimous answer to your new model. We're talking about the CAP, which we're talking about today. They've been on strike for months. It's so serious the situation that we woke up this Sunday with a SOS from a workers at the Vigo CAP, which made us reach all groups; they stayed for the fourth time without one of their medical professionals, derived to cover an emergency at the Moaña CAP; improvising. They also ordered them to remove cartels that reported in the CAP waiting room themselves from the absence of this doctor and from the medical delay; perhaps a case of censorship. But this is not the only assistance problem. In other CAPs across the country, farthest away from cities, pressure is more intense. There are discoveries all over the country, any day you can repeat that of the Road. Personal lack, lack of budgeting, remaining precarious and there's no willingness to really dignify the conditions of the people of the CAP. There are no improvements in this new model fiasco, nor for precarious doctors. That's why they're making a primary strike call all the collectives. Professionals worry about doing their job well. Don't you get it? What do the CAP professionals ask now? Why did they vote against accepting an agreement? Do you think they like living the conflict? They're still on strike because Sergas only takes minor changes. He makes concessions with the daily allowance, which until now had atrocities such as penalizing work casualties, but they remain unaccounted for all permits, and do not pay the agreed night and holiday supplements until 2021 — and they owe them since 2008 —. They are forced to make unforeseen guards, even workers with reduced daytime care for their daughters — and I have a first-hand record — and they talk about reconciliation. You know what Sergas did with the offer they didn't accept? He didn't take care of his professionals, put them in a drawer and wait for them to demobilize. That's his strategy. Our support for the "PAC on the foot of war" and the primary strike. What about the clinic emergency? Well, they came from a strike that Sergas urgently resolved, had too many fronts, there was a lot of media noise, and there came the elections. They have partially solved the nurses' and the TCAE's, but doctors are still on strike; they ask to adapt the number of optionals to Semes' recommendations, on the basis of demand and care priority. The Director General himself, Mr. Aboal, introduced that document; the most difficult thing is to do it. They don't even understand each other. While the manager, Eloín Núñez — Fexóo's cousin — was looking for a service coordinator with consensus among the professionals themselves, the director general imposed a boss who comes from the Crown, who deserves all professional respect, but does not come from the consensus. On the one hand, staff negotiate with the manager, and in the parallel world of higher instance, they decide to disallow it. They made a ridiculous manifest. The emergencies assume the overload of a system that doesn't work, with the collapsed primary, with income restrictions, with severe patients in the corridors. This is reckless. What about ambulance staff? For all recognition, both those of the concert, who carry chronic patients, as well as those of the emergency, with whom I have shared -- I said -- serious difficulties. They're the first to get to accidents, they transfer infarctions, they drive like no one in the vital emergency, even without the means. It's the eyes of the 061, focal point all over the territory, also in the countryside. They're negotiating their agreement in a difficult thesis; the employer has negotiated the contracts downstairs, to stay with the concession, and now he's forcing the workers to squeeze to get more money for wages. The administration wants to be resolved — let's remember the elections — but nothing is enough for the employers. See what happens when services are outsourced? That we are hostage to business interests. Technicians should be health personnel; it would be more worthy, it would be cheaper, it would be more efficient, it would be a matter of distributive justice; but they choose to pay revolutionary taxes to workers and workers as coins.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u220	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u221	I'm done. You'll know what interests are behind it. It's a shame this management is because there are very valuable professionals who are committed to work and know where to go. Listen to them, they're not doing it. They're dropping another strike more, now in primary school. They bet, indeed, for public health, unless their intention is — as we suspect — their demolition and privatization. We will support the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u222	Thank you very much, Mrs. Miranda. On behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs. Amigo Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u223	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. Of course, there is no lack of capacity for dialogue on the part of the Health Council, and of this, in case you had any doubt, it remained sufficiently evident yesterday in this House at the meeting, on your own request, of the Health Counsellor. By going to your proposal, Mr. Torrado, since the Galego Health Service, the proposal is maintained at the continuing attention points, and we hope that the trade union organizations and workers' representatives will reach agreement, reconsider their position and this conflict will come to an end. We regret that, despite the proposal, which introduces considerable improvements in working conditions, and that nine of the eleven measures proposed by the trade union organisations have been offered since the Health Administration, no agreement has been reached. The document presented at the last meeting by the Galego Health Service collected the vast majority of the claims requested. And tightening and drowning isn't, Mr. Torrado, what the Council is doing. I can read the measures there are, but they're notorious and they're in the press. I'll read some of them. The document includes offering the purchase of two maintenance diets on Sundays and holidays; it has expanded, in addition, and improved the initial request, because it is extended when it is twenty-four hours; the request for availability, uniformity and greater participation of the professional in the setting of service objectives has been met. Regarding the increase in staff, the guarantee of necessary professional reinforcements has been accepted, taking into account objective criteria, such as assistance overload, age distribution, dispersal, displacement and other circumstances that justify it. Full equipment for medical professionals and nurses was also accepted. And, as I said at the beginning, we expect trade union organizations and workers' representatives, considering that nine of the eleven points were offered, reached agreements, reconsidered their position and this conflict came to an end. As for the health emergencies of Galicia 061, because, first of all, it condemns the vandal acts that are taking place throughout the community against the ambulances of 061, the last in Cañiza, where, after an ambulance exploded, damage occurred in beautiful buildings and fortunately there was no need to mourn personal damage, only material damage. It is important here to emphasize that this is a labour conflict between businessmen in the sector and their workers. Since the Galego Health Service, mediation of the Galego Labour Relations Council has been requested and it is expected that, through it, both parties come to an agreement, but I emphasize: it is a labour conflict between employers in the sector and their workers. Emergency health care services in Galicia 061, as an outpatient emergency health transport service in the autonomous community, are considered as an essential service for the population, and therefore the minimum services established during strike calls are 100%. We must make a call to responsible and consistent behavior and, in addition, to insist on goods and people, and, as I told you at the beginning of my intervention, opposition gentlemen, after hearing yesterday the Health Counsellor, we cannot say that on the part of the Council and the Counsellor there is no capacity for dialogue; a counselor who has demonstrated professionalism, management capacity and public service vocation, who has requested positive initiatives from this Parliament, but again we see that only those who disqualify the Greek public health are you. Look, the facts are that Galicia is leading action to evolve primary care over the next few years, and the truth is that primary care is the health service that is best valued by citizenship in all health barometers. And, Mr. Torrado, you are proud to be of the PSOE—and I congratulate you—I am also proud to belong to the People's Party, but we have seen what matters to health in your presence today, and also your great contribution yesterday to the Councillor's appearance, which was to request his resignation—great contribution to health!— Mrs. Miranda, look, tell truth to measures, plot and even say threats and disqualifications. These are your contributions. Mrs. Prado, you're always predictable, it's always the same, it rains or gives it the sun, it's always the same. "Parchiños," that's the consideration, along with yesterday's "papers" or "papers" by Mrs. Solla. That's the consideration they have for the work and the effort they're doing on the part of the Council and the professionals of all professional categories, which have been doing for months...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u224	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u225	— already finished — meeting and getting closer to the improvement of the primary care model. I ask the opposition a little bit of consideration for work and the effort of those who are truly concerned about the improvement of health. And, by the way, I want to remember what we heard yesterday from Mr. Almuña...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u226	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u227	...and I quote textually — already stated — "We want to keep all channels of dialogue open because there is no one left here. Among all, we have to build a new primary care model."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u228	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u229	Mr. Torrado, asking for channels of dialogue seems more like an obvious question...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u230	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u231	...which is being done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u232	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u233	There's never been so much dialogue capacity before.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u234	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u235	We can't support your LNP.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u236	Time's up. Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor by the non-legislational panel.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u237	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, I would like to thank the support expressed by En Marea and the Galego Nationalist Block for the initiative and, of course, share the defense they have made of the workers' attitude. And to protest that I was a little surprised at the refusal that the spokesperson of the People's Party announced. He said the request for dialogue was obvious; we share that it is an obvious request. But if it's obvious, they can support it; I mean, it would be natural. It's a little surprising, isn't it? It's obvious, but don't support it. And then I see a great deal of defense of the councilman's honesty and his efforts, and they applauded him very much. I'd be worried if I were the counselor, because the last big applause I saw in the People's Party was Cristina Cifuentes. Of course, the applause of the People's Party when they're so closed about a difficult situation... [[Applause]] In any case, it will be a very dialogueative attitude, but today we know that for the third time — if we do not remember correctly — the primary health service heads of Vigo reiterated their resignation. We know there's a medical strike warning for April. We know that the problem of ambulances is still not solved. Santiago's emergency problem remains unresolved. You don't even talk about the CAP problem, which is still there. It's just that they didn't actually solve any labour conflicts. [[Murmurs.]] It surprises us, in addition, the workers' use. The problem of ambulances is a job problem; there's a concession and there's a job problem. Of course, because you've never met any workers from any collective, right, even those who don't work for Galician Union. Because you didn't use the Alcoa workers to go against Pedro Sanchez, did you? They don't use the police workers now, do they? Tell them they're doing everything they can. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] They don't sit with Ferroatlantic workers even though they're a company that's not directly involved in the board; they haven't sat with them, have they? For this is a public service, they are workers for a public service, sit down with them! Ah! but with these not, because the employer in this case is a former MP; judicial award — I remind you — more than one hundred and twenty million euros, which had the ambulances already labeled since the prayers came out. Of course, then we didn't meet. They use all the workers to try to campaign against a state government, ah!, but ambulances are a work problem. We argue that it is a work problem that Joina must...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u238	Excuse me, Mr. Torrado...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u239	...debt...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u240	I'm sorry. I remind people who are invited to the audience that it is forbidden to take pictures or recordings, okay? So please don't do it. Sorry, Mr. Torrado. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u241	Thank you, Mr. President. He said we argue that ambulance workers need to have the board stand, and to know if the board defends that a company can take off the deal, and I'm a public service. The users, the citizens, the people we're being cared for, that we're potential users of the system, we need to know what the working conditions of the workers are going to meet. Because it's necessary for us too...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u242	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u243	...knowing what quality is. We defend that channel of dialogue. This is a non-law proposition that basically proposes, as the spokesperson of the People's Party said, to open channels of dialogue, it does not pose anything more revolutionary than that. We believe that dialogue is an attitude that must be shown and executed, it cannot only be said. And that's why we were waiting for support because it didn't pose anything concrete.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u244	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u245	...but we see that the dialogue isn't even if you want to vote in favour of this chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u246	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. We move on to the cumulative debate on non-law 4.3 and 4.5 proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece to improve the situation of primary care G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. from In Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the development by the Galician Council of an improvement plan for primary care, as well as the actions to be carried out in connection with staffing and working hours of the continuing attention points
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u247	An amendment has been tabled, at the initiative of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, of the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Torrido Quintela. [[(G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, through his spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, presented to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-law proposal.Amendment of amendment.The text of the resolution of the proposal should be replaced by the following:"The Greek Parliament urges the Council of Galicia to:1. (b)To comply with the European directives on working time of the CAP.c)To provide the CAP with sufficient staff in all categories according to objective criteria of assistance, dispersion, age distribution, distance to hospital and number of mobilizations of the 061.d)To change the time count of the CAP's staff in such a way that the temporary incapacity and allowances paid as unworked time are not counted. e)To develop a contingency plan that will allow staff to be available at all times to be able to cover absences.2. To develop a new Primary Care Improvement Plan that includes:a) Recovery of primary care agencies with the appropriate budget allocation to develop their own work and direct management on it.b)Developing a professional recruitment plan for all categories of primary care.c)Increasing the budget devoted to primary care to reaching within two years the same extent as in the 2009 budgets.d)Axillating the procedures for accreditation of new steps into the training specialized in pediatrics, in order to be able to convene as many as possible.e)Convocate the maximum number of family and community medicine squares that are accredited."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u248	To formulate your non-law proposal, Mrs. Prado Cores has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u249	Thank you, President. Yesterday at the meeting of the Health Counsellor, we told him from the BNG that he was against everyone and that it was good for him to rectify his health policies, and specifically towards primary care, because otherwise time would make him correct. And far from taking note, the councilman comes here, gets emboldened and says he takes note and sets all measures in motion. She insists that she takes note, and it turns out everyone outside tells her that what she's saying she's not taking note aren't the measures they're demanding. And he does, and it turns out everyone says no, that those are not the measures they're demanding. And today the MP of the People's Party comes here and goes on to say: fantastic, we applaud the counselor, because he's taking note. When everyone's telling you no, they're not doing what they're demanding. Well, I don't know, it gives the sea against the stones, and eventually, normally, the sea can. And, I don't know, maybe this councilman, as he goes on a boat, maybe he can't get the sea. But the reality is, what do we meet today in the media? Well, with them being redeemed again, you'll be released again by the heads of service in Vigo's health area, you'll be released again! [[Applause]] I mean, I'm telling you no, you tell me what you want. What are you telling him? Tell you what you want, that you don't, that you're not, that you're saying, that you're taking note, you're not taking note of what we're demanding of you. They're telling you that, they're telling you that the measures you're putting on the table don't solve the demand for over-care. They're telling you in writing that they don't solve the problems of over-care, that the increase in residential squares will only serve to export doctors. No, these are the chief's words, I'm just transcribing; that's what they're telling you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And they're saying no. What are you telling him? Well, there's an announced strike, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, because that takes note of the counsellor seems like he's completely unhappy with no one. They're asking questions that we bring here to Parliament and that you vote not. Well, BNG brings back here today a number of measures for primary care, which is what the primary care professionals are asking for. So if you take note, you'll have to vote in favour, because that's what primary care professionals are asking for. So you can't say that you take note if you then vote against what you're asking for, that they're part of the measures we brought in the previous plenary and that you voted against. And days pass, weeks pass, meetings pass, and you're delaying giving time a solution. I, of course, don't know exactly what has to happen so that you really take note and realize that this way doesn't. I really think it would be better if they realized they were losing an opportunity to rectify in time before they had to do it on the path of the facts. I think it would be good for the People's Party, that the councillor and the German Government to realize that they are actually losing an opportunity to hear the cry out there, that they would correct it in time before they had to do it on the way to the facts. Because it's generating a tsunami out there that will force them to correct themselves or yes. And right now, if you don't take note, you'll have the strength that they have more votes to win, but it'll be the only force left. So at the BNG we bring here again today a non-law proposition with measures for primary care. Because, you say what you say, all the decisions that have been made in general for health policies, but in particular for primary care, have been on the road to reducing it. Two billion euros less accumulated since 2009, of course, is a very important amount and it has had consequences. And the "doing more with less" means you can't do more with less. And two billion euros less invested in primary care has the consequences we all know. It has the consequence that the professionals are now being denounced and that they have said, "We have arrived here!" is that this is unbearable, you cannot continue to work in those conditions. And these are the consequences of massification, it has the consequences of excessive quotas, it has the consequences of reduction of professionals, it has the consequences that they are not replacing professionals, it has the consequences of waiting lists in primary care, it has the consequences of closing schedules, of saturation of professionals at the limit of their abilities. That is why — I insist — we bring this initiative, which is what the professionals are demanding: First of all, increasing investment to the point where we put at least twenty percent, when we know that all reports and all experts say that primary care must have twenty-five percent of a budget of any government; we put at least twenty percent in the budget. And as soon as we proceed to an increase of EUR 200 million. I insist: Just over a year ago, the BNG brought here a bill saying where you can take 200 million euros to apply them already in primary care. You come with seventeen little ones, of which you use a large part for computers and printers. Ridiculous! We need enough amounts to shorten the current hemorrhage in primary care. Increase the number of professionals in all categories, both in health centres and the CAP. You know it's essential to make this increase in professionals. Call all vacant squares. We've already told you in the previous plenary: four hundred and twenty squares are convened in the transfer contest, which means there are four hundred and twenty vacant squares, and at least those are the ones that are needed. And then widen squares, of course, that's what professionals are telling you, that they're not doing total stability, and they're not even raising squares. Replace the professionals with their absences. Yesterday Mr. Núñez Centeno said something here in this gallery that I, of course, did not seem to care. That the heads of service, within these fantastic modifications of that new Primary Care Plan, would already have the ability to decide whether they could make day-to-day interstitutions or expansion, i.e., that a professional could do the work of the side-by-side or extend the afternoon. So that's the fantastic solution to the workers, and that's why they put it as one of the improvements. He needs courage! It takes courage to come up with this proposal. Nose sleeves! [[Murmurs.]] That's an improvement, please! [[Applause]] That's an improvement! [[Applause]] You can choose between the bad or the worst. [[Applause]] Well, no, no, what they need are more professional, don't keep working at the parlor!, more professional! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And that's why they're going to strike, because they're not willing to continue working on these conditions. Improve CAP equipment. Retrieve primary care agencies, with resolutive capacity with budgeting and autonomy. Not that pantomime you're putting on the table. With a resolutive and autonomous capacity, primary care agencies in these conditions. And increase the squares of specialists in Pediatrics and Family and Community Medicine. Real measures, with budget, concrete, that's what they're asking you to do. And as you're seeing that you're trying with more propaganda, with measures for the gallery, that's why nobody's believing them; nobody's buying them their model, they're not buying the measures the advisor is putting on, they're planting it and they don't believe it. And so, say what they say, yesterday the councillor was here announcing I don't know how many measures and the answer of the professionals that is: strike call, and tell him: no, we don't. So if you're really about to do something, you should vote for the proposals that we bring here to this parliament, because if you're not, you're showing that you're lying, that you're saying something to try to lower the pressure of mobilization, but you're not going to solve any of the serious problems that you have at the moment of primary care. If they don't come from lighthouse, if they don't really come from lighthouse, they will vote in favour of the initiatives we have put forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u250	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. You have the floor to Mrs. Solla Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u251	Thank you, President. For what we heard yesterday here, and today in the previous debate, it seems that the Health Counsellor will have to come as a mediator to the United Nations, because mediation and dialogue with him are fantastic. It's a shame if it's for the so-called dialogue with the health professionals, but they don't use or take advantage of their ability to bring him into dialogue between the 061 workers and the company, since it's not a matter for the Galician board, and even if we don't have quality health transport, total, as it's a problem for a company with workers, what it gives! This is already a bit of the absurd and ridiculous situation of the debate in this chamber, where a person who has such a high responsibility as the health adviser comes here to put flowers, saying that he's doing his job very well and that here, like Jesus Christ before the Pharisees, he'll put the other one on his side waiting for the workers not to come to the meetings. It's a bad joke because the situation is so serious that workers and workers have to call the first strike in primary care. And in the face of this situation, all he does is self-botting flowers by saying that everything is perfect and that his dialogue is absolutely wonderful. The situation that we have in our primary care in this country only goes through the realization of a real plan for improving primary care that has enough budget to increase staff chapter I. There's no other measure. Then all the others will come, but there is no other measure that serves to reorganize a system that has suffered a blunder of hundreds of workers, more than a thousand in Galicia's health care in ten years. A bleeding that the People's Party not only recognises, it fakes when it intervenes. And it's obvious, and people slap him, and we've moved him here; it's palpated when you go and you have to wait ten days. But then it's the fault of the people who are older, and it's the people who, of course, have to go to primary care in our country. That's what moved this gentleman who has such a high responsibility here yesterday. And that's why I was trying to "papelucho" what brought us here, which is really an insult, because, obviously, when primary care workers are summoning a strike it won't be because it's doing it right. And it has already been said by the heads themselves and the chiefs of service to those who have been scorning for months, and who are again resigning to an absolutely unsustainable situation, that what had been proposed not only solved but had been entertaining them for months to, of course, try to counter the protests and mobilizations of the professionals. We call for a plan to improve primary care, providing staff, equipment and access to the necessary budgetary resources to ensure the policies for the promotion and prevention of health, and, of course, also to recover in that sense the primary care agencies. Because here I don't know which directions without any decision-making capacity and no budget to manage by the heads and heads of service. And that's what's a trick, a deception for people to stop mobilising and, therefore, the social response to policies that cut 300 million euros in public health in this country for ten years. The consequences are terrible, terrible! that we saw in the country's emergencies, that we saw at the points of continuous attention, that we saw on the road this summer. Because the consequences of cuts pay on the people's skin. That's what they say they represent, that we're always Galicia. But we are Galicia when we have to vote; to put adequate health care, to put health and health care in health centres, we are not Galicia. Here we bring a paperboard with a series of measures that don't collect what professionals are asking for. And let's move him back here. They ask, as we have been asking the opposition groups for so many years in this chamber, to increase the health budget and to increase in primary care. Because 300 million euros of cut-off also have the transfer plugin that primary care represents only about 12 percent of the health budget. Where is the budget left for the most basic of our health care, and basic is not simple, but the most important of our health care? That is where the quality of health is measured in this country, the importance given to it by the Government. Don't talk to us about total numbers, percentages about total budget, talk to us about cash and sound euros, talk to us about chapter I, talk to us about why after cutting professionals, make them retire, now they're saying there's no staff. And their star proposals are to ask them to endure by bending their backs to seventy years at work, those are their star proposals; to assume the workload of other colleagues and colleagues, also folding their backs, so that you can justify that they have a great health without investing a hundred euros more, but by cutting back 300 million euros. That's the reality. Of course they're at the councillor's disposal, of course they are. Aren't there twenty-four hours and 300 sixty-five days a year, with that precarious contract that you intend to impose on new doctors and doctors, at the disposal of citizenship? Obviously, if they call them, they'll work and do their service, but they're at your disposal — the counselor wants — to get the chestnuts out of the fire from work that hasn't been done for ten years. Although in fact a job has been done; a job that has been meant to demolish public health for ten years, cutting down on the most basic: at the health care staff, at the very best we have. They don't get tired — and you put them in your mouth every time there's a debate — of saying that the health staff is wonderful, but then at the time of truth they don't respond to their demands. That's the reality. And they have to increase their staff. There is no reordering capacity, no action to be taken if what has been cropped up during the last few years is not recovered. No, no, at least it's not done anymore; at least it's closed, misery is horrified. But it's just that professionals don't want to organize poverty anymore in their jobs, they want quality assistance, they want to work in decent conditions and they want to give decent health care, because that's what they've been forming for so many years. And we cannot come here — as we have seen in the previous speech — to say that the issues raised from the points of continuous attention are being addressed when day and day we also dawn on news of the shortcomings, of the discoveries, which are at the points of continued attention. I used to move the roommate what happened in Vigo. But it just didn't happen just that day, it's that there's often news of the time some staff from Vigo's continuing attention point to move to Moaña. But we also have them in the case of Coruña, that we must move them to the Chamber because there is no, or the Art. And we're already reaching the point where nursing professionals are also moving. Hey, what is it? Professionals existed; there are many of my companions in absolute precarious situations. It's not that there are no professionals, it's that the Council of Galicia has no interest in us having professionals at our disposal at the Health Council. A good manager doesn't blame you by chance or the casual circumstances of which there are no professionals; he manages, he manages for ten years, and of course he doesn't come here to move that when there's a problem it's all right and dialogue is fantastic. That's why we have a strike called, the first strike in the history of this country in health care in primary care; in primary care, the first one. And that's why there's still a strike at the continuing points of attention. [[Murmurs.]] They started -- and it must be remembered here -- the strike after a year and a half asking for the same thing that has come out today, which were absolutely basic issues. They took care of the easiest, that's right, but the one about personal rehab, that's not. I remember that there are no complete equipment, there are no staff, and one of the points that we also ask for again in this non-law proposition, which are the contingency plans to address absences, paid, and talking to professionals and having a list of how things should be done, not forcing people. Health professionals are not their slaves. And the problem of lack of staff is the responsibility of the blue benches, for the cuts in ten years, not the professionals, who now have to take the chestnuts out of the fire to that gentleman who has such a high responsibility, who is the health adviser. And so today we bring back the complaints from the continuing attention points, because it's absolutely incomprehensible that after such a long strike you don't put personal. News — straight –: Vigo, problems with the Cambre center, problems in Artexo... Every day there is news, or at least every week. And that's exhausting for professionals. It is truly an unbearable situation to continue with a strike and that these demands are not met. And they're already putting posters in the centers saying professionals are missing because Together doesn't replace them. And the role that they brought yesterday, with all due respect, of what they were — and finished already — willingly sat down to listen, but they already knew that their demands would not be heard, that role does not include anything — I repeat it — in budgetary matters, chapter I, to restate the professionals.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u252	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u253	They take out all the squares that are waiting for the competition; they'll see how health professionals appear. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u254	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. Mr Torrido Quintela has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u255	Thank you, President. It will be the complicated health which, if I may be allowed to play, the general secretary of the Communist Party spoke of the Bible and the BNG spoke of the Madrid Movement. Take a look at the complicated thing! [[Murmurs.]] But, well, don't worry, the president of the board talks about autonomy. So anyone can say otherwise, that's a natural thing. I, if you'll excuse me, thought by combining the two things, I'm almost going to quote the Vigilante Movement, "God save the Counselor," from Sinister Total. Especially because the PP applauds him the more dangerous he's got the counselor at his post. There is, indeed, a problem in primary care that yesterday was intended to be solved. I say show up because we talked about it yesterday, and it's evidence — as everyone knows and all professionals know — that the Board intended to arrive here yesterday at the appearance with a signed agreement, with a lot of approved measures, and it was found with reality. The reality is that the councilman almost doesn't want anyone to talk to him, and that many of his directors are not legitimized to negotiate, because the professionals don't want to sit with them either. Before that, yesterday we saw a sort of sneaky attempt. And it was not possible to withdraw the appearance because it does not appear the request itself; the request of the previous appearance is from the opposition groups. Of course, the counselor is summarized and, in the end, he has to be dragged a little by the cable. And in the end, he had to make an abrupt appearance, without really explaining anything, because nothing had to be explained. All you could try to explain was the proposal made by Junta, which was rejected by the entire sector: medical schools, College of Physiotherapists, nursing, social workers, patient associations, heads of service in the area of resigned Vigo. There are a lot of groups that are constantly saying to the Council that it cannot be negotiated because the Council demonstrates too much sovereignty. In addition, and here in the previous debate — if I remember — the resolution on the problem of ambulances, on the problem of the CAP, on the problem of emergencies is — the proposal, which has been rejected — to see if we are able to dialogue and accept it. It's a fantastic way to assume the dialogue, which is: I propose A, and if you don't want A, the dialogue is to think about whether you want A. And if you don't want A, come on, let's see if you want A. And the dialogue at the Joint is to always propose the same thing and be constantly appealing to the reflection of the others, because reflection must always be from the others. The dialogue is for others to say what I say. And the consensus is that others support what I say. And so you can't negotiate anywhere, and the council is already disgruntled to move forward in no way. In addition, as we explained yesterday, it defends a model that failed, a model that did not intend to change competences, that did not intend to give more competences and more possibilities to nurses so that they could miss out on the rest of the team, which it didn't want, and had to do less than it should, extend the catalog of diagnostic tests, which in no case does not really intend to increase the volume of professionals. We attended here yesterday's commitment to convene next year a number of squares in Family and Community Medicine that are not legally possible. 135 squares have been announced here, but they're not accredited, it's not possible. Of course, we blame others! A number of squares have been announced that it is not possible to convene. These are the measures: lies, cuts, privatization. That's the triplet magic of the People's Party, which recently goes a lot of triplet, from Colon to triplet of health lies. Years of warnings, constantly. With the health situation, it has been alarming for many sectors, it was only necessary to listen to someone. They may not like the Socialist Party's proposals; they don't listen. They may not like the proposals made by other political parties represented here; they don't listen. They may not like union proposals; they don't listen. They may not like nurses' proposals; they don't listen. They may not like the proposals of physiotherapists, social workers, patient associations... they don't listen. They may not like Medical College proposals, but they won't listen to them either! Who do they listen to? With whom does the People's Party sit to talk about proposals for changes in health? For everyone who exists in the sector, everyone rejects the proposals; everyone. So, who are they talking to? It's almost a personal curiosity, with whom do you sit and talk, who's at those meetings, who says there's a proposal that's good but then, within the professional sphere, nobody wants it? We're probably asking some right people but some wrong people. Sometimes you're asking right people but you don't listen, which is also quite usual. In general terms, we support these initiatives. We tabled an amendment to each one, but it's the same amendment. It's not a big change, but a set of proposals that have been made, trying to seek, if possible, a common position, which basically comes to transfer the same argumental line that the voices of En Marea and the Nationalist Block Galego exposed here. The motion seeks to defend that the measures necessary for the CAP and the measures necessary for the general primary care need to go beyond the existing one. The announcement of some measures, of a new model, of sitting in dialogue, could be a starting point, but it was taken by the Government of the Union as a point and end. The truth is, when you need to radically change your model, you can't assume that the first thing you propose is the end. It needs to be a starting point and from then on, work, which is what everyone is demanding. Together with the measures proposed here, we believe that we are making a proposal to collect the measures of complete equipment. It's been said here now that there are no complete equipment. Moreover, there have been notorious problems recently, with fatal consequences, in the CAP. They can go through again, there was no single change in measures, equipment or personnel, in the situation of the Galician CAP, not one! It must be that what happened doesn't matter to anyone in the Council. There was no measure, it can happen again, and we're talking about serious fatal consequences. No one took any action, no one considered there to be some mistake, some inaccuracy, some management problem. No action was taken. We are talking about the need for sufficient people and job quality issues such as the hourly calculation. We are talking about complying with European directives, as is proposed through the initiatives put forward in the field of working time. We are talking about meeting normal working conditions, so that professionals, who are already doing a huge job, by the way, especially in services such as those mentioned here, especially in the case of CAPs, do a service with a very high level of stress that can lead to a problem of job losses over-risk or over-stress. These professionals need coverage of a certain quality of work they don't have now, which often have to be washing their clothes at home because from the service they don't have the ability to offer them two sets of clothes to care for. We're talking about very simple things. There are proposals for a plan to improve primary care, recovery, yes, management, but really agencies, as you mentioned here, don't put strange names on it and budget it. Really, why do we want a manager who doesn't have management skills? So you can figure it out. There won't be anyone who wants to be head of primary care without budgets. There'll probably be someone, but in most cases they won't be primary care managers who will do it with all that will, because if they don't have management skills, what are they going to be for? We are talking about the increase in the budget and we are talking about working in collaboration with the ministry so that these places — those of family and community medicine and those of Pediatrics, above all — are believed as much as possible. By the way, see if we can all remember...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u256	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u257	...and I finish now—that this fantastic government that led Dolors Monserrat in the Ministry of Health left 500 accreditations throughout Spain unresolved, 500!, closed in a drawer, saying they didn't need doctors, and now they're asking for all to be solved. Let's talk to the ministry, which is willing to work and collaborate, but don't ask for impossible promises.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u258	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u259	We present the amendment and we will support the initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u260	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. We welcome the 5th primary school students from CEIP Agra do Mujin, Ames, who have just entered the session. You have the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u261	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Good morning to the students and to the people who accompany us on the road. Mrs. Solla, in Galicia, there was a primary medical strike in 2009, it seems to be forgotten. I, of course, suffered obligations, bureaufaxes and threats, fifteen hours before making a guard, etc. Principles of the year 2009. And she's either summoned or in the process of summoning a national strike. Who rules in the rest of the autonomous communities? There's a medical strike announced at the national level. I think the problem isn't Galician, as much as you're trying to say. We have very little to add to yesterday's manifesto at the meeting of the Health Counsellor, where he announced 175 measures to improve primary care. You call on the initiative for a plan of improvement and we consider these 175 measures to be a plan of improvement. He may like it or not, but we think it's a plan for improvement. We also understand that different professional groups seek improvements for members of that collective and the work they do. We were talking yesterday about the physical therapists presenting a series of allegations and accepting the plan. We also talked yesterday about the discrepancies between the medical group and the nursing group in relation to the management. We understand that all those suggestions put forward by the professionals will come to an end in a document that can be accepted by all. And going to Mrs Prado's initiative, he asks for a percentage of the budget and a specific amount of figures without any kind of justification, at random. I think you're right about the counselor when he shows that first you have to assess needs and the plan, and then give him a budget. We know that this year's budget is closed. It also calls for the convening of all vacant squares, knowing that it is manifestly illegal. I ask the spokesmen and the ladies of the Socialist Group and of En tide to intercede before the Government of Madrid to withdraw the repositioning rate, and in fact, more squares could be called up. An OPE with Family Medicine and Pediatrics Squares is announced for this same year, exhausting the replenishment rate and 8% additional, to meet the deficit target, using all these health squares. He also asks for an increase in the number of professionals in all categories. It is, of course, being done mainly in the deficit categories, for those who call all those OPE parasites, a thousand and peak for this year. Replacement of professionals in absences. It's done when it's deemed necessary, but mainly when there's availability of professionals. Better equipment. It was announced in the press, and yesterday the councillor, the investment of EUR 17,300,000 for this investment in material, being the heads of service who have to prepare the proposals of what is needed in each of the centres. The councilman taught yesterday the document where they reported and where all those first proposals from the chiefs of service appeared. The last two points are also being met. Primary addresses are recovered in the health areas, with their own capacity and autonomy; and in addition, primary care sub-direction in Sergas. The individualized primary budget is recovered, Mrs. Solla, and they have repeatedly applied for more MIR places to train family doctors and pediatricians. Furthermore, the celebration of an extraordinary IRM, the axillization of the accreditation of teaching units and the approval of foreign doctors. Faced with that, the minister announces in the Interterritorial a number of family doctors' squares throughout Spain. And when you ask how many are for Galicia, you don't say so. You don't know how many they are for Galicia. Spain's ones are announced but it's not known how many they are for Galicia. That goes on the line of action with Galicia Mr. Sánchez and his government, line by which we know that as president he hasn't visited this community all the time of his government. In addition, the stable contract for substitute doctors — we said yesterday — has been published with conditions that seem good for these professionals, so they are interested in optional of the rest of the autonomous, Spanish communities working in Portugal and even doctors of Portuguese nationality. He explained yesterday to the counsellor in his presence: strikes and demonstrations in primary almost all over Spain, and actions to solve the problem in Galicia and the Basque Country. With regard to the initiative of En Marea, in addition to the said so far, add that in relation to the professionals of the CAP it is negotiating with trade unions. There were new offers on the part of Sergas and, as my companion Mrs. Amigo said, nine of the eleven points in the professional claim were accepted. I said on different occasions that negotiating is not to impose. That a responsible administration and it would not be able to accept all the demands of all the collectives because that's what we pay for among all the citizens, we pay for health care and the rest of the services. We trust you to reach an agreement as soon as possible. We would like, ladies and gentlemen, that the opposition spokespersons have ever explained the solution to the most serious problem of primary care today, which is the shortage of family doctors and pediatricians. Instead of promoting or encouraging collective protests about the failure of pediatricians or substitutes for family doctors, you're going to show how you'd fix this situation. When there is no doctor available to cover the Cambre CAP or the Moaña CAP, there is no doctor available to cover it, and a CAP doctor from the Coruña or Vigo CAP must be removed and sent to this CAP to avoid having to close it. When there are no pediatricians or family doctors available, in the face of an immediate situation of a low job or of any other circumstance that survives; when there is no place for any unexpected situation, in the summer or on vacations, even now practically every day, there are no family doctors and there are no pediatricians, but it's not in Galicia, we know it's in all Spain. I'd like to know where these doctors would get the opposition groups from. I'd like to know if they have a magic vein that doesn't know the Council. Surely, if they let us know, we'll thank them. They asked to increase the retirement age, but when the retirement age was increased they did not like it. They asked for a stable contract for replacements, a better contract, but when a contract was offered with €61,500 and under conditions I've already said more times I'd like to have them when I finished my career, it's no use either. Instead of giving the hammer about the ideological scum of the People's Party, committed to not knowing what evils are, you bring up some concrete solution other than the proposals in the plan of measures presented by the advisor to address the serious problem of the deficit of primary doctors suffering from Galicia and the rest of Spain. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, the words of the Basque counselor, Mr. Darpón, on Welsh health. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u262	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Authors of the proposal. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u263	First, thank you for the support expressed by En Marea and the Socialist Party. To say that we will also support the non-Madean bill. And with regard to the amendment tabled by the Socialist Party, we propose that we accept it as an addendum, not a substitution, as a whole, except in point 2 (a) and (c) because they deal with aspects that contain our initiative. I repeat to you that I am sorry that you are not aware that you are losing the opportunity to correct in time, before you have to do so by the way of the facts. Out there you're generating a tsunami that will make you correct yes or yes, and it would be good for you to do it because if you realize they're doing it wrong, you're telling them absolutely everyone. So, then, don't rectify, in the end, that you have to drag the tsunami out of the force of people who are increasingly opposed to their health policies, because they're ending up with Greek public health and they won't allow it. So if they had a little sentinel, they'd correct it in time. Don't you want to? For the tsunami of the strength of the professionals and the people of Greece will cause them to correct themselves or themselves, that's the reality. [[Applause]] The proposal that BNG brings here today is not random, Mr. People's Party Member. We demand to increase the budget to a minimum of 20%. Why? Because that's what all experts demand, all those who have analyzed how much primary care needs to respond to the needs of a population and be resolute. Yeah, going up to 20%. Not immediately, 200 million euros. And we didn't do it at random, we brought to this Parliament a non-law proposition that we said where they could be taken from: increasing the ability to collect; and what departure it was from. It wasn't random, it wasn't improvised, it was analyzed. You voted against. [[Applause]] Why? Because you, up to four days ago, didn't see any problems in primary care. There was no problem, it was alarmism of BNG and other political organizations. There was no problem anywhere. The force of the tsunami that's generated is making you see some trouble and making you correct. Does anyone think that with EUR 17 million, you can rectify any health policy in primary care? No one's believing them, because it's not credible that with that money they're going to rectify absolutely nothing. Why do we demand to increase the number of professionals in all categories? For example, you don't contemplate a single place of masters in that plan. With the problem of women's health care, and not a single place of mistresses. But how is your plan going to be credible? Not a single place of mistresses! It's not unbelievable, it's a lie your plan, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. That is why we ask for squares in all categories, we ask to convene all the vacant squares. Have courage, ladies and gentlemen, of the People's Party. Since in Madrid when you were, and now with the Socialist Party, they don't eliminate the rate of reposition, they face, they call an OPE in front of Madrid and they go central government to the Constitutional. Be brave, face Madrid for once. Since it's necessary, you face up, you do what you have to do to save the Welsh public health. They have no courage to do what needs to be done, they don't have it, because if they had it, they would support these measures, which are what professionals are asking for, real, concrete, feasible measures, what they need to save public health, to save the primary care of our country. But you don't have the courage and you don't want to save primary care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u264	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u265	Thank you, President. We will support the initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block. On the amendment of the Socialist Party to our initiative, we have no problem accepting it, although we understand that it is done to realize what it has to do with the Primary Care Plan, and in that sense we propose to compromise, so that they also include nursing specialties. As regards point (c), of course, we do so with regard to the budget in real terms, because we have actually explained the problem that we have when we discuss the economic aspects of the health budget of any other kind. An administration would say the People's Party that it cannot accept all the claims of all professionals. This maximum is absolutely contrary to what must be a serious administration. An administration would have to assess the demands of the professionals, and, on their behalf, assess the need for those demands and assess the health situation we have. I don't know if it seems very important or little that when a person comes to -- you don't have the replication now -- at an ongoing point of attention he has a doctor, a doctor, a nurse or a nurse to attend. Is that very or little important to the People's Party? That when a person comes to a health care center can someone help him, is it very or little important? Of course, here's the level of priorities! It's been seen that for ten years it wasn't a priority. And today, and in spite of the strike, we continue to have discovered ourselves at the continuing attention points of this country, without staff. The conformism of the People's Party: it can't be anything else, we have nothing else to do, as there are no professionals! Look, there are no professionals because you've eliminated professionals for ten years, they've been forced to retire! But what is this? Then we came here to say that we have to comply, and move that we are the ones who solved their paperwork. It seems to me a joke, because we've been bringing here for years proposals to solve the shortage of professionals, better or worse, more or less correct, but always with a common point: the vote against the People's Party to increase professionals, to improve the situation of pediatricians in this country with the proposals we have brought. We've been on this subject for months last year! We're moving on now. And here they come saying we don't bring any proposals. Hey! We do nothing but discuss the lack of sufficient personnel in primary care in the Health Committee. You know perfectly well that we bring concrete centers and the general problem. We've taken the matter of the midwives and you voted against it. We took the issue of primary care professionals in a lot of centers and you voted against it. Man, please don't take our hair off! Don't take our hair off! We can't take it, and I don't think that professionals can't take it, and how can they not take it... is this really a primary care plan? Is this the plan for improving the primary care of the People's Party? As you don't take their hair, of course, in a few weeks you'll have a strike going on. We're not happy, eh! —and I'm done now — that the professionals...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u266	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u267	You have a lot of prejudices, you should review what you think about opposition groups. It's very regrettable your way of thinking. It's very unfortunate that you think we're glad that professionals have to strike. The ambulances? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's good for you to criminalize the fight. It's always the same. It seems to you that there are problems in criminalizing the workers' struggle. That was always the way it was and will always be the way it is! You guys have prejudices and think we're glad that workers have to complain, strike and report that the People's Party doesn't do them at all and that they've been claiming the same thing for years. I'm done, I don't have time, but they recapitate and vote in favour of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u268	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Galician people, at the initiative of Da María Isabel Novo Farigna and six other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in order to fill the vacancies in the Police Unit Subscribe to Galicia and increase its troops to a minimum of 400 and five
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u269	There are amendments from the Parliamentary Groups of the Socialists of Galicia, En Marea and the Nationalist Block of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u270	To make this proposal, Mr. Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u271	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Very good morning. First of all, on behalf of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, I would like to greet the representatives of the Joint Police Union present in the rostrum, because today we are going to talk about a matter that affects them particularly and affects us throughout Galicia, this is about asking for more officials from the Galician Autonomic Police. The Galician Autonomic Police comes from the Spanish Constitution, which provides that the competence of public security is State, without prejudice to the creation of police by the autonomous communities, in the way in which it is established in the respective statutes, within the framework of the provisions of an organic law. In the Statute of Galicia it is so regulated, and the Organic Law of State Forces and Security Bodies states that an autonomous police can be created, but it is also said that autonomous communities that did not make use of these possibilities can perform these functions by requesting the Government of the Nation to sign up for units of the National Police Corps. That's how Galicia did it. This is later regulated in a royal decree of 1991 regulating the organization of the units of the National Police Corps ascribed to the autonomous communities; and before, in 1990, it was when an agreement was signed, that an administrative agreement was signed between the Ministry of the Interior and the Autonomous Community of Galicia to establish and ascribe the unit of the National Police Corps, which was then published by an Order of the Ministry of the Interior of 19 June 1991, which in its first article stipulates that the police unit depends organically on the Ministry of the Interior and functionally on the Board of Galicia. This Police Unit has been accommodating the provision of its services, over the years, in parallel with the new competences that it has been marking and assuming the Government of Galicia, a circumstance that has determined both the increase in human and material resources and also a greater increase in police headquarters in Galicia. In 2005, with the Socialist Party in the State and Galician governments, an extension of the administrative cooperation agreement between the Ministry of the Interior and the Autonomous Community of Galicia was signed, and in this agreement, the Ministry of the Interior committed itself to the incorporation of police officers into the Unit, until reaching the total number of 500 personnel, which is the figure in the catalogue of this unit. Even so, the fact is that with the Socialist Party the UPA has never reached that figure of 500 troops, and since 2008 and beyond, indeed, what has occurred in the unit was an incessant loss of personnel, reaching down to 348 troops in 2011, without having done anything since the Socialist Government of the State to remedy this situation, despite the fact that it is in the memory of the year 2008 and that the then Presidential Council had conducted management with the General Directorate of Police and the Civil Guard for the increase of the UPA squares to 500 troops. None of this was accomplished, and it had to be a new government of the People's Party in Madrid, which almost since the beginning, in January 2012, made the decision to strengthen the personnel of the Adscribed Unit. Thus, in 2013 it was when it was closer to 500 troops, until it came to a timely count of 474, i.e. 95% of the staff provided for in the catalogue. And why is that? Thanks to the development in the years 2012 and 2013, the Ministry of the Interior had developed two specific merits contests to provide sufficient staff unit, thus increasing by 140 staff. And it was precisely in the years in which we had to hear day by day in this plenary, and all the Greeks, who since the opposition had spoken of themselves as cutting public services, that chance, when you talked about it all, the government of the state had adscribed 140 new troops! I hope this data is not questioned because it is data contained in the annual memories of the adscribed Unit. Currently, the functions of UPA have increased, since in 2015 an agreement was signed with the ministry to collaborate with the National Police on the protection of women victims of gender violence, and therefore a significant number of troops are being devoted to this work, but the total number of staff in the staff is decreasing for various reasons, such as retirement, promotion and second activity. Furthermore, as is known, the Adscribed Unit continues to fulfil — with excellent results, in addition — with the protection of the natural environment, the fight against forest fires and also against theft and illegal shellfishing. The increase in the template is also a question that this party has led to in its electoral program, in the autonomous elections of the year 2016. At the same time last year, the Vice-President of the Board, on the occasion of the Police Day act, publicly called for the increase in police force. So the Government's sub-delegated in that act was present, and he objected that the Government that runs Pedro Sánchez intends to make an effort to recover the lost troops in recent years. The truth is today, five months later, that commitment has not been fulfilled. So we demand this increase of troops as one of the priorities for more self-government. Another of the priorities we have is that the transfer of AP-9 at no cost to the Greeks is consumed and carried out; that the EUR 1.4 billion is paid from state budgets and not from users; and that a 25% discount is also established on travel made on the same day. The other priority in Galicia's agenda is that Galicia's compensations are paid to which we have the right to be a responsible autonomous community, which has fulfilled and managed responsibly. And fulfilling this is the way to make self-government. The Socialist Party cannot give us self-government lessons because in 2007 it voted against the transfer of AP-9; in 2010 it blocked at the Congress of Deputies the transfer of traffic competences to Galicia; in 2011 it appealed to the Constitutional Court for the priorityized catalogue of medicines, and this year, with a poor budget plan, tried to discriminate against Galicia by reducing investments in Development by 30%, and in return increasing Catalonia by 60%, while the People's Party increased investments in Galicia by 11%. Of course, you have to pay the fees and compensation to independent governments, and the injured one in this case was Galicia. These budgets did not go forward, but it must be remembered that it was a plan of budgets to benefit precisely those who go from allies of the BNG and those who are allies in the Government of Madrid of the Socialist Party and the Tides. We want self-government, therefore, one of the commitments is this: to increase the number of troops, and we will urge the Government to increase this number. In the People's Party we have it clear, we are proud of the state's security forces and bodies and, in particular, of the autonomous police. From the Tides and the BNG we already know the concept, or sometimes the nullity they have for the police; I don't know if they have the same concept as the Bolivarian police in the country, because they have another concept and more respect in those countries. [[Applause]] But, of course, the facts and what we have heard are not of respect. [[Murmurs.]] Look, spokesperson for the BNG, Ms. Ana Pontón, October 2, 2017, said: "Police repression..." — I say in Spanish because she's engaged in a teletype in Spanish, I suppose she wasn't exercising the right to use the Greek— "... she reminds us of that Spain in black and white of frankism," Ana Pontón. Ms. Ana Pontón, December 25, 2017: "The alternative to politics doesn't go through crime, police repression or misuse of judicial power." Reported by the BNG on October 1, 2017—see how well they talk about the police— "It's embarrassing and outrage to see the security forces of the state raiding schools, tearing down doors and demanding polls to prevent that fundamental right, even exercising violence against people." [[Murmurs.]] That's how the BNG sees the police. It's no wonder, Mrs. Pontón, that they leave the hands of Arnaldo Otegui and the independenceists of Republican Left, it's no wonder! That's why they have that concept of the police, and of course neither we nor the Greeks — I'm sure — share that criterion. Therefore, Galicia does not deserve political representatives who exercise the state's security forces and bodies, who guarantee that we can live in freedom and respect the rights of citizens. [[Murmurs.]] So, I hope you will approve and support this initiative, to get Galicia — these are transfers that we can ask for already — it is simply to articulate a merit contest — it can have more effect and we are closer to saying no more to the 500 established, but at least we have reached the 475. For the moment, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u272	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u273	Thank you, President. I also want to greet the police representatives who are present in this debate. Of course, I have to say that Mr. Moreira struck here every record of speaking practically of almost all matters less than he brought up to speak in this debate, because he spoke of Venezuela, he spoke of Catalonia... by the way, we kept word for word that statement we made on October 1, 2017. We don't change anything and we speak clearly, we say the clear things. [[Applause]] This non-law proposition has a virtue, which states in an absolutely clear way what is the model of the People's Party, which is that of renouncing a genuine Welsh police, that's the reality. They want to replace it with a substitute that we, of course, have already told them that they are not going, that they do not convince us, that we do not support the UPA. [[Applause]] No, it's not our model, Mr. Moreira, you have to speak clearly! You guys want something that isn't an autonomic police or a Welsh police force, either. It's a substitute that has limited powers, which has little means -- and you just put it here -- and by the way, few means because you've been ruling the People's Party all these years in the state and took it to that situation, with the replacement rates, with the retirements, with all this that you told us here. [[Applause]] It's a self-accusation what you did! And now they say they made a promise and ask the Government of the State to do so. But they were six years old to solve this issue, Mr. Moreira! What are you telling us here? This GNP speaks of its incompetence, its incapacity, that is basically what this GNP is talking about. We defend another model of the Welsh Police, and it's not any occurrence, our model is explained in a law that was passed by this Parliament in 2007. We have a Galician Police Act that you kept in a drawer, that you insubmittedly rebelled against her and failed to comply with it. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] We want that law! That law clearly states which of the competences of the Galician police in matters of citizen security, in matters of administrative police, in matters of surveillance and control of trafficking, protection and assistance to victims of violence; by means, with sufficient personnel to address this serious problem, not with the shortage of means we have now. Because that law also foresees a development and reaches 2,400 troops, don't worry to see if we get to 473. To reach 2,400 troops to have a true and true Welsh police, that's what the BNG wants and what you're putting in a law passed by this Parliament you have failed to comply with. The reality is that twelve years have passed since the adoption of this law, and you and the Socialist Party have made a decision that subjected a very serious boycott and veto to the development of this law, which was the veto on the transfer of traffic competences in 2010; the Socialist Party voting against and the People's Party abstaining from that vote. Because if you didn't abstain, if you were to vote in favour, we would have that transfer now and we wouldn't be talking again, eight years later, to see if we were to be transferred to traffic skills. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] The worst thing about this situation is that you didn't worry about Galicia having any more competition. The balance of his Government, the Government of the People's Party, here and in Madrid, was zero transfers: they didn't get any, they didn't ask for any. So what are they telling us here? And the worst thing is that they didn't ask for it is that we've still gone back, lost skills and recentralized even more. And now they still come with more electoral promises back, more regression, more centralism, loss of competences this country has, for example, in language matters or in education matters. You still want to empty out more powers than that tiny statute we have. We're not going to support it, we're telling Mr Moreira here, in this gallery, and we're also telling the police representatives that we don't want this model. We want a model of our own police system that foresees how it would equip itself with means, with members of the police, also with local police personnel and with a call for public squares to have this true Galician police with all the means necessary to meet all these functions that I have told you. You, gentlemen of the People's Party, opt for failure to comply with the law which this Parliament has approved, the BNG for its development and its compliance. You, the People's Party, opt for a delegated and capped administration, the BNG for a genuine German Government. The PP opts for political begging, for submission to Madrid, in front of the agenda on the right, the right, the BNG for spreading all the potential and all the capacity of this country. You opt for a successor, the BNG opts for a genuine Welsh police force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u274	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u275	Thank you, President. I also greet the police representatives. I thought, Mr Moreira, that we were going to discuss specific or problematic police data, but few must be the arguments they have to talk about at all less, precisely, than is the Police Unit itself. In that sense, the LNP that brings us to this plenary is nothing ambitious for Galicia. It's an initiative to a certain extent captivating and certainly a victimist, and without coming out of the data that are official and that are public. In this sense, first of all, we want to recognise from the Socialist Parliamentary Group the work for twenty-five years, from 1991 to 2016, of the Police Unit enrolled in issues as transcendental to Galicia as could be forest fires, illegal shellfish, the protection of minors, environmental inspections and such a critical and socially problematic topic as the protection of women through the Vioxen Unit. In that sense, collecting data from the memory of the Police Unit itself, it's already 240 women in protection on December 31, 2017. [[Applause]] But, as Mr. Moreira told you, and as we also had occasion to check at other times, the data published in the memoirs, of course — and without leaving this latest data closed on 31 December 2017 — is really an absolute inability to manage by the Government of Greece in terms of recruiting troops to the Autonomic Police or the Police Unit of the National Police Corps. It is true that the maximum number of troops was reached in 2013. In 2017 we have — according to data from memory — 418. But it is also true that the years 2011, 2010 and 2013 are years in which, by governing Mr. Feijóo too, police unit personnel were the minimums of Galicia. In this sense, it is also compelling — and you were even making some reference — that the inter-administrative partnership agreements to provide means and personnel to UPA, signed between the Ministry of the Interior and the Government of Greece, were originally signed in 1990, then in 1993, 1996, 1999, 2002, and finally the last agreement signed was that of 2005, under the presidency of President Tourinño. From 2005 until now, Mr Moreira, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what has the Galician Union done to renew agreements or to renew agreements with the Ministry of the Interior?, practically nothing or nothing, so we have recognized even in the memories of the Police Unit. As he also referred to the constitutional block, both the Spanish Constitution and our Statute of autonomy in article 27, paragraph 25, as well as the Organic Law of Forces and Security Corps of 1986, establish the whole normative and competence framework that allowed and enables Galicia to have its own autonomous police, and that statutory commitment, that commitment to competency development, was carried out in this House precisely through the adoption of the Law 8/2007, of the Galician Police, under the presidency also of President Emilio Pérez Touriño. We must remember a whole series of key functions for citizen security, for the administrative police or for the judicial police described in article 15 of this law. And in that sense we also have to remember that the transitional provisions of this law, which, as I say, develop the statutory capacities of Galicia, establish mechanisms for the possible integration of the personnel of the National Police Unit assigned to Galicia, establish the mechanisms for the forces and bodies of security — which are not the people's heritage, but rather are heritage, a device, of the whole society of this country — to continue to provide services until the autonomic police are fully deployed, but they also have to be activated — and so it is said in the text of the Galician Police Act — the mechanisms for transferring or delegating a series of functions which in Article 15 fall within the competence of the State. This morning we attended — not without perplexity — to hear President Feijóo say that he declared himself a guarantor of the Statute of Self-Government. In these ten years, it really cannot be said that any development of any aspect that Galicia has statutory development pending since Mr. Feijóo came to the Government has been guaranteed. They had the opportunity to vote in favour of the proposal for an organic transfer law on trafficking which the Socialist Parliamentary Group presented in the past plenary session. They will have the opportunity this afternoon — as our spokesperson announced — to speak on an offer of pending powers to transfer. These will be the possibilities they have to show the guarantee of ensuring that we have the statutory competences of Galicia, which we are not a better community than others, but we are not behind the rest of the historical communities. That is why we will support — if we support Mr Moreira — the initiative to increase the force. But let us be more ambitious, because what we want is to incorporate an amendment of addition which is precisely what we are asking for is that the work be initiated so that, in developing the predictions of the Galician Police Act itself, the necessary transfers are carried out so that we can have the approved commitments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u276	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u277	...in this House itself in matters of security and interior for Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u278	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u279	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. We also want to welcome the police representatives who accompany us here from our group. And we, on the initiative of the People's Party, have to make two considerations, to begin our exhibition of what we believe to be done to solve this situation. First of all, it shows the mental cocoa they have from the People's Group — or, better said, the political cocoa they have, so that it will not be offensive, before I get the attention of Mr Santalices — that they no longer know which model or proposals will defend according to the political moment. They have no memory of what they defended years ago, and, according to the strategy or the moment "get everything" that they want to follow in their strategies, they come here with one thing or another. Of course, in addition to Mr. Moreira's exhibition, the second question we want to underline is precisely the lack of respect shown, with his exposure and with this floating position, with the representatives who accompany us here and with the police as a whole. We find it disrespectful to defend certain issues and how certain issues are defended. Of course, you have no memory of when in 2004 in this Parliament, through the Galician Union, Mr. Gesus Palmou announced that Galicia would have its own police force, and justified its creation in the face of the difficulties in fixing a staff of 500 officers in the Union and admitted dysfunctions in the unit that he currently has. In 2004, Mr. Fraga Iribarne's government, no less. We're in 2019. And he said: Galicia will have its own police but with fewer powers than Ertzaintza or the Mosos d’Esquadra, who operate as autonomous police in Basquedi and Catalonia. The autonomic police will have more means and functions than the current registered unit, created 13 years ago, but the adviser to Justice, Jesus Palmou, did not specify the operational field in Parliament. He said he would forward the bill to the Welsh House within weeks with the idea that in that legislation, in 2004, the police force itself was formed on the October horizon of the following year, in 2005. Carai, year 2019! He was talking about dysfunctions. The holder of Justice justified the Junta's bet by a police force itself in the dysfunctions that were found in the operation of the Unit assigned in 2004. Given the impossibility of articulating the full staff with the excessive mobility of agents, the Italian Executive decided to wager by the Autonomic Police, which in that case would no longer depend organically on the Ministry of the Interior. Mr. Junta wanted the creation to take a dialogue with the Central Administration, and Mr. Manuel Fraga would speak directly to Mr. Sevilla. He ruled the Socialist Party. It's funny that right after, when there was a change of government, the Union, when Mr. Rajoy had an absolute majority, changed his model and changed the way they wanted to do things, they were not as impetuous as they are now. In 2018, Mr. Rueda, the vice-president, again took advantage of the commemorative events of Tuesday, October 2, Police Day, to claim the most effective central government for the community, making special fincapé in the self-registration unit. It's true that the Transfer Law... of transfer has been approved, not, the Self-Government Police Law, but from our group -- and we have already said it here on traffic issues -- what we want is the transfer of competition, because it's the way in which we give good service to the Greeks and the Greeks, that we can make specific public policies for the Greeks and the Greeks, as we do in the case of the transfer of traffic by the high rate of claims, and we want, in the same way, to transfer complete competition in compliance with the Statute of Self-Government. That's the model he's defending in Tide to be able to bring what would be a Welsh cop himself, to make his own policies. Even though we don't feel bad about the police law that has already been approved. It would suffice us to comply with the law that already exists, frankly, if the People's Party feels good. If you like it, of course, because this has been approved in this Parliament. I don't know what's so funny about you. I don't know. Maybe I'm not explaining myself well. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I should focus and not listen to those who are dedicated to distorting from the other side. We do want the autonomic police, in compliance with the autonomy statute. That's our claim. And that it is with respect to the staff and it is not attempting to use favourably or even in the case of Catalonia, that by a political order that ultimately went against the police itself and against the Catalans, it caused enormous prejudice not only to the people who were assaulted on 1 October, but to the body itself, who received political direction and then the perpetrators did not even apologize for something that embarrassed the whole of citizenship, not only of Catalonia, but of the whole state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u280	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u281	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Santos, indeed, is not well explained. He doesn't explain himself well, and I think here he snores the ridiculous. You're talking about cocoa. Man, you're about to talk about cocoa in that group, huh! You're about to talk about cocoa! [[Murmurs.]] Look, Mrs. Santos, we have very clear which are the demands of the police officers. But you know why? For something very simple. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u282	Quiet, quiet... Quiet, please! Silence! No, no, silence, that's an expression of debate. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, quiet. [[Mr. Cal Ogon pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Sir Cal, I call you by order. It was very repeated today. One more on the list. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, quiet. Quiet, quiet, quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I didn't hear any screams on this bench. No, I didn't. [[Murmurs.]] I didn't hear any screams. Quiet, that's it! No, no, quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If you want, we'll suspend this ten minutes and put some rest on the matter. I don't have a problem. If they want, we'll suspend ten minutes and calm down, I don't care at all, and then we'll come back at four. Continue, Mr. Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u283	Thank you, Mr. President. He told them that we have very clear what the demands of the police officers are, but for something very simple, Mrs. Santos, because we met with them, received them and listened to them. What we're asking here is requests from the police force itself, the police officers and the unions. We're not making anything up. I think you might come to the same conclusion if you met with them and didn't do anything to denigrate the cops. Yes, yes, as they were often denigrated. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] When it was October 1st, here you spoke from your group, I don't know if they agree or are in that divergence or not...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u284	Mr. Lake, be quiet. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u285	...of police repression. In Santiago de Compostela, in 2017, when an eviction occurred, he was in compliance with a judicial resolution, just like in Catalonia, six public officials, police, were injured. And when everyone expected the mayor of the city to stand on the side of the order and the police, the mayor's comment was: Man, I think it's embarrassing when a mayor doesn't stand on the side of the forces and security bodies, and that perfectly defines what his position is and what his police model is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u286	Quiet, quiet. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u287	But I'm telling you one thing, these police officers or the Civil Guard...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u288	Mr. Cal, be quiet. You already have a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u289	...they're the same ones that, at some point, an important political representative is in charge of guarding their homes. You can get to that, you know? It's those same cops who, perhaps, one day that you or I are in a danger situation, they won't hesitate for a second to risk their lives by saving their own, mine or anyone's. [[Murmurs.]] Don't hesitate, they're the same cops. [[Applause]] We've talked about traffic competition, and it's not a priority. The priority is that we now have an assigned unit and we have to increase the number of troops that the Socialist Government has said it would increase and not increase. And then we played the Champions League, don't forget, there was enough money! And when the number of police members increased, it was in the years 2012 and 2013, in the worst years of the crisis. When you were talking about cuts, there was more increase in police. [[Applause]] Mr Bará and you keep insisting that you want an entire police officer. It's not possible, with current regulations, to have a whole police force like the Basque Country, Navarre or Catalonia. It's not possible! It is either necessary to amend the Statute of autonomy — not to develop it, to modify it — or to amend the Law on State Security Forces and Bodies, or, if not, to make the transfer by means of Article 150.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u290	About the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u291	But don't fool people, eh! Because you have passed a law that with transitional provisions has been saved from unconstitutionality, because you wanted an entire police officer of your own, like the Basque model, and it's not possible. That's why that law can't be developed until the regulations are changed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u292	On the amendments, Mr. Moreira, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u293	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u294	Look at the clock, too, look at the clock. He's already compensated.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u295	As for amendments, we're not going to accept them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u296	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u297	We're not going to accept them because what we want is, what we have, equip him with police officers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u298	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u299	We do not believe in that model, Mr Bará, and we should also amend the rules, even the Statute of autonomy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u300	Thank you, Mr. Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u301	So we're not going to accept the amendments and ask for support for this request, which is also a request from the Socialist Party, we don't forget it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u302	Thank you. We suspended the session until 6:00 p.m., four in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u303	Good afternoon. We resumed the session. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out in Galicia in connection with the assumption of new competences by the Autonomous Community
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u304	An amendment was tabled by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u305	Mr. Fernández Leicega has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u306	Good afternoon. I hope this delay doesn't have to do with the subject of this initiative, because just this morning we hear very intense self-reliance professions of faith and I want to start there. I believe that the first thing to say is that the autonomous state, which we have since 1978, progressively constructed, has been a success. This negative view that there is about its functioning I think it doesn't answer for anything to reality. It's a political success, it's an economic success and it's a social success. It is accompanied by a long stage of prosperity; it has allowed autonomous communities to build and manage such central elements of the state of well-being as our health, our education or social policy and has allowed, with difficulty in recent times, to resolve the territorial demands that exist in Spain, integrating them in a positive way. No doubt, he's in trouble, and he's in trouble with the autonomic state. It has a crisis — we can say — of maturity, the crisis of forty years. He's got financial maturity. Today, autonomous communities have — and we hope they do not prosper the ideas of the People's Party for the next elections — a prominent financial autonomy, with regulatory capacity in many taxes, in addition to spending, and have skill maturity, because most of the central competences that must form part of the functions of the autonomous state are already transferred to the whole of the autonomous communities. This has a lot of merit, above all, because the Constitution does not provide a way for the construction of the state of autonomy, but leaves many possibilities open and it is done on the basis of the relationships of force, of the ideas that prevailed at every moment, of the demands that existed in the territories, and at the end this has produced a result which, globally, I believe, has to do with satisfaction. At the same time as I do this very positive analysis, globally, of the functioning of the autonomous state, we need to highlight not only the tensions that exist today, a recentralizing tension, what we're talking about this morning, but also a fracture tension of our model of territorial coexistence, whose main threat is in Catalonia, and also some dysfunctions. The first, in the field of competence, of what we are going to talk about today; this is not a peaceful issue. The technique provided for in the Constitution itself has its difficulties, leaving to the State, on a residual basis, those powers which are not expressly in the statutes of autonomy; making some competences competing between different levels of administration, for example; or establishing a distinction between the basis of competition and development which is very difficult to establish in truth. And all these and other things gave rise to an endless conflict in front of the Constitutional Court, and I have to say that globally the Constitutional Court has also acted as a guarantee institution for self-government in the autonomous communities and let's say that it has favored the deepening of the autonomous state. In Galicia I think we have a double anomaly. First, because it is a historical nationality according to what is collected in the provisions of the Spanish Constitution and the fact that its status was plebiscised and then passed in a session of the Republican Courts as early as 1938, but it is a historical nationality that at the competitive level is far from that which has reached both Catalonia and the Basque Country, which are the other two autonomous communities that as such are present in the Constitution. It's an autonomous community that has little pulse in favor of self-government. The president of the Union acknowledged himself as a defender or guarantor of Galician self-government, but the fact is that, as I reminded him this morning, during his ten years as president, he has not achieved any transfer of competence, and this indicates the difficulties in strengthening Galician self-government and taking him — as he said in a recent interview — to the level of Catalonia and the Basque Country. Furthermore, those differential facts of Galicia, which have some very marked, such as the fragmentation of our territorial property or that intricate coastline, which combines laughter with rocky exits abroad, which makes it very difficult to control them, are not transferred to the level of competences, and in some areas of the territory or in some functions that directly affect the management of the same we can no longer act, when the rest of us do have very relevant competences. In the last few years there was a paroon, as I said before, because there was no possibility of reforming the Statute to do so similar to the second-generation statutes that other communities have given. And there was a paron also because in the last ten years there has been no possibility of expanding Galician competences. That is why this proposal is intended to meet this blockade, and it wants to unlock the situation by proposing a negotiation between the Autonomous Community and the General Administration of the State, establishing a list of powers to establish this negotiation in the Joint Transfer Commission. A list that will seem insufficient to some and some very ambitious, but we have made it with an opening criterion, flexibility, discussion, openness to the incorporation of new functions and removing some, because we don't think we can understand it as a closed list, but rather — I say — as a list to discuss. In any case, we include very relevant competences, some of which we know are in the idea of all parliamentary groups: trafficking or the autonomic police, for example. But there are others who, without being explicitly in the formulations of parliamentary groups, we know that they are collected as the competences of the autonomous communities in the statutes of autonomy, for example, of Andalusia or Valencia; one of them driven by the Socialist Party with most and one of them with a majority of the People's Party. So it should be easy to agree on them. In any case, with the assurance that, if these statutes are in place, they have a presumption of constitutionality, and therefore, when asking for them, we are not breaking anything, but making the autonomic model work better. Examples are clear: Labour Inspectorate, an important element of monitoring that labour law is being complied with in companies from within the vicinity. I know that the General Administration of the State is doing so, but we believe that, in competition with other competences already managed by the Autonomous Community today, this can be done more effectively. Similarly, coastal management or agreed disaster management, as collected in other autonomous communities. As we discussed in the Committee on Forest Policy, we saw that one of the major difficulties in promoting the productive mobilization of land and promoting efficient agricultural and forestry polygons as to promoting investment, was precisely in the difficulties of recognizing who was property, as were those titles, as were organized, etc. And we believe that through the agreed disaster management we can improve this. So we're proposing something that goes in the way of efficient federalism, which doesn't understand that it will always be better for the Autonomous Community to manage something: sometimes it'll be better for the state to do it; sometimes it'll be better for the municipalities to do it. And it also aims, as a medium-term objective, to set up a competitive distribution that does not move but that today would still allow us to move forward, and at the same time to provide content with that notion of historical nationality that we all invoke but that we believe that we must strengthen it by giving it a competitive basis, in this case, much stronger. True, yesterday we heard the Councillor of Culture with surprise to tell us that singing the anthem was ideological indoctrination, and today we heard Mr. President of the Board, with surprise, telling us that he was a defender of self-government but at the same time he didn't want to extend competences because that was to create curtains of smoke. We, modestly, do not intend to generate any curtain of smoke, but simply advance Galician self-government. And if this is seen with reasonable eyes, with no second readings interested, we think it must be understood that way. We, I say, go back to the beginning, we defend the virtues of our autonomic model, which is a flexible model and a model that allows us to adapt to the circumstances. And we also believe that the best way to defend him is to practice it. The best way to fight centralizing tensions on the one hand, but on the other hand, independentist tensions are to explain that our autonomous model has the ability to adapt to circumstances and function well, and that's what we want to propose to them, with full compliance to legality and in a negotiated way between administrations. On the other hand, at the last debate of the state of Autonomy in 2018, we adopted a resolution by 54 votes in favour in this Chamber, in which we rightly said that we would call on it to carry out all possible political actions to achieve the maximum in the quotas of self-government for Galicia in accordance with the Constitution of Spain. I don't know if this is the easiest way to do it, but it's one of them; therefore, I expect your positive vote on this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u307	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u308	Thank you. Good afternoon. We are not going to enter the debate at the moment on this song that Mr Leicega made of the autonomic model. Of course, there would be a lot of discrepancies. We're going to get into what's the concrete proposal they bring us here, which we think... what happened, Mr. Losada? Are you nervous? Ah! It wasn't for me. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I believe that in the immediateest moment it has to do with the expansion of the agreement we took in Commission 1 on 23 January, in which we ask all the groups, on the initiative of the BNG, nothing more and nothing less than attain the same competences that they had transferred from Catalonia and the Basque Country. The truth is that the PP joined the consensus after making the timely consultations, but it was a little anxious, because after a few days they had already retreated, abandoning this position; they took off the board and defended their real program, which is submission to Madrid, obedience to Madrid and obedience to that recentralizing and reactionary program of Mr. Casado. The truth is, we don't take any surprises, it's what's been defending the People's Party all these years, and especially in the last ten years; that is to say, charm, renounce Galicia's interests and renounce those historically demanded competences, because you in your election program in 2009, in 2012 and in 2016 put the claim of those demands. Look, in 2009 included 17 requests for transfers: fisheries sector management, oceanographic research, ports, nautical-fishing titrations, coastal management and management of the public domain maritime-terrestrial, meteorology, watersheds, airports, Labour Inspectorate, motorways, museums and libraries. Anyway, nothing. The balance, let's say it again, zero kicker. No transfer has been made over the years. And it's not only that they didn't promote the transfer negotiation, but that they boycotted it directly. In 2010, they boycotted the transfer of trafficking: negative vote by the Socialist Party, abstention from the People's Party; and also the transfer of AP-9 in a persistent and repeated way. And it's good that you try Mr. Madeo come here again with the lie that we opposed. But if they've been systematically opposing for ten years! And for the last three years, on three occasions: vote here, veto in Madrid. [[Applause]] And this is bad, the worst thing is still missing: that you have an even more centralized agenda, as we told you in the previous debate. And of course, at this point, we have to say that the PSOE can't boast much about transfers either, because it also has those responsibilities that we've already told you, in the vote here and in the veto in Madrid, about the transfer of traffic. In the case of AP-9 they also have their own history of veto and statements against both Mrs. Magdalena Álvarez and Mr. José Blanco. Since the BNG, since they've now fashioned this on social Fridays, let's humbly propose to them -- it's an idea that we bring here -- Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays. If you want, too, Saturdays and Sundays, any day of the week is good for this. But don't argue, for example, with the BOE. How about, for example, it's Thursday tomorrow, a social Thursday to derogate labour counter-reforms? Do you think this measure is good? Or to put down reactionary law bites? Or to derogate LOMCE? It could also come well on a Friday, a Thursday or a social Tuesday to derogate LOMCE or the Budget Stability Act or the reform of article 135 of the Constitution. These would really be long-range social measures. But we want to be even more innovative, we want to propose, besides Thursdays, Tuesdays and social Fridays, Thursdays, Tuesdays, Fridays, Saturdays and Greek Sundays. Since Galicia is not on Mr. Sánchez's calendar, is it not on Mr. Sánchez's budgets, is it not on the PSOE's central government agenda, for example, what about a Greek Friday to end the abuses of AP-9's beaches? I think it would be a well-viewed and well-received measure by the Greek people. How about a Thursday? Tomorrow it could even be a young Greek to process the return of the palace of Meirás. It would also be a well-received measure. Or a Greek Tuesday to find a solution to Alcoa, and to the electrointensive industry. I think they'd be good initiatives we missed. BNG proposed an amendment to add to the Socialist Group's initiative. We know that the People's Party has no credibility, it has no desire to move forward in this land, it has made it very clear. That is why we think you can take the initiative of the Central Government, and since the Central Government will rule until the last day, convene the Bilateral Commission, the Joint Transfer Commission, and get to work now. They therefore call a young Greek with that commission and begin to negotiate the transfer of these pending powers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u309	Thank you very much. It was only Monday, it was the only day. It was only Monday.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u310	Monday too, Monday may also be.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u311	Okay, okay, okay. Thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u312	Good afternoon. At this point in which politics changes so fast, it seems that the center is moving at an unusual speed. Mr. Leicega seems to be chasing the center of the position, but, of course, we must be careful not to catch one out of the game. Sometimes he moves so fast that he gets himself out of the game to Mr. Feijóo and appears as a dangerous nationalist, until he realizes it and then rectifies and heeds his row boss again. Mr. Leicega, be careful that not trying to chase the center ends up as a dangerous independentist. You could end up asking for the transfer of traffic, the autonomic police, the Labour Inspectorate, the catastrophe, or defending the English language. You can end up being a dangerous independenceist! We can all end up being ETA. If the drift from the Spanish State's policy continues, we can end up being all dangerous terrorists that we defend the Welsh language, that we defend the sovereignty of Galicia. We can end up listening to the VOX equation, which defends gender inequality, which attacks immigration, attacks the different or wants an absolute recentralization of the Spanish state, with the Republican Left of Catalonia, historically a democratic, anti-Francist political force, with the President of the firing Generalitat, Lluís Companys. And we can end up accepting as normal that Mr. Feijóo comes here and equips two political forces such as VOX and the Republican Left of Catalonia for the fact that the Republican Left of Catalonia is independent and democratically defends Catalonia's right to be an independent nation. So, this is already a political debate, and we are seeing how in the Spanish state we are watching a very dangerous drift, in which Mr. Leicega may end up being a dangerous extremist for asking for transfers, because, according to Mr. Pablo Casado... Two words that we will not hear from the People's Party never here in the Greek Parliament: Paul and Married. No, because there is hope, there is still hope that Galicia is not Spain, and in the People's Party of Galicia many of the Members and Members are uncomfortable when we talk about Pablo Casado and what Mr. Pablo Casado says, and that to me is a reason for hope. You're not comfortable with what you hear telling Mr. Pablo Casado when he wants to disown the Greek to be a second language, when he says that there's taxation of the Greek here, when he says that we need to recentralize teaching, when he says all those barbarities that even you get uncomfortable. So, we're talking politics. I don't think we're going to listen to Pablo Casado or Santiago Abascal on the Popular bench. We will support this initiative of the Socialist Party, we will support it. I really don't think the debate is here. The debate in the Spanish state is that in the face of an obvious crisis of the 1978 regime there will be, or an authoritarian exit to the right, or a democratic exit where the right of nation is respected, not inventions of historical nationalities. Galicia is a nation, and Galicia may voluntarily want to understand with other peoples and yield part of its sovereignty. But there are two exits: either the authority of the tripachite, or the democratic one, where people can decide, because we're talking about the material living conditions of people. This is an identity issue, it's not a flag issue. It's a question that, of course, we believe that Galicia's potential to govern itself would give better material living conditions to people and working classes. We're talking about the fact that behind the Spanish flag in Columbus Square there are economic interests, there are economic oligarchies that live very well in the Spanish state. We will therefore support this initiative, also denouncing that here you can come to say what the People's Party wants, but for some time the People's Party has been no longer autonomous to simply be an instrument in the service of the recentralization of the state. Ten years and zero skills. Ten years and zero skills transferred, glorious service sheet! In Galicia in 2009, Mr. Feijóo made his way back to pre-autonomy. That's what Mr. Feijó did. We're in a simple government delegation. It is so much that the People's Party's retreat that even Mr. Albor and Fraga, perhaps, would also be uncomfortable, like the benches of the People's Party, when we say Pablo Casado. They create a soft autonomy, but today's People's Party doesn't even do that, not even in a soft autonomy. Every day they hand over the keys to Genoa 13 and leave as a spa. That's what you're gonna do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u313	Finish, please. Quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u314	If Mr. Paz laughs, the speech will be fine. Yes, sir, fine. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u315	Quiet, quiet. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u316	I do not claim the Fraga, I do not claim the Fraga. I'm seeing the center shift, and when you scroll the center, there are even some that are left to the right of Fraga. That's what I'm saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u317	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u318	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, thank Mr Sánchez for mentioning our former presidents, of whom we, of course, are very proud. I'm glad you once said something sensible from the Tides of Podemos. Look, of course, in this group you won't find, in any case, Otegui's friends. Not there, not in the People's Group. Maybe there it is. And I don't know if you're going to vote for Louis Villares when you have a chance. We, of course, are going to ask the vote for Pablo Casado, because we believe that it is the best person to get this country forward in the context where we are. [[Applause]] Don't ask me who I ask for the vote, because you don't even know who they're going to run with. Then don't take our hair off. [[Laughter]] Mr. Leicega, we agree with you in the defense of the autonomous state. And we coincided a lot more after listening to the Galician Nationalist Block and the Weird Tides; we came across much more with their vision. We live in one of the most decentralized countries in Europe, and, of course, these 40 years have proved to be a success of the autonomous state. So we are reasonably satisfied with the development of the state of autonomy, of course! Are we in favour of decentralization? No, no, no, no. Are we in favour of breaking up Spain? No, no, no, no. Are we in favour of collaborating with those who intend to break Spain in exchange for supporting Pedro Sánchez? Neither is it. That's the reality. Mr. Leicega, you are not thinking of Galicia when you present this initiative, you are thinking of Pedro Sánchez at this very moment. They're not thinking of Galicia, not even Spain, they're not even thinking about the Socialist Party, they're thinking of Pedro Sánchez, washing his face, washing his face and hiding the misery these nine months in which he discriminated and punished Galicia from the Government of Spain. Dieselazo, punishment for the automotive sector, punishment for electrointensives, Alcoa, Ferroatlantics... and you can't take advantage of the minutes left by replying to apologize to the Alcoa workers, after what the president of his party said — the Secretary General, not the President of the Government, who never came to Galicia — about Alcoa, who said what he did and didn't? You can take advantage of the occasion. The brakes of the F110 frigates, the threat on the thermals of Meirama and The Bridges and the cut-off of the state's general budgets in its investment to Galicia. Cut 26% to Galicia. That's right, the independents 60 percent more. To be a socialist in Galicia is very difficult, because you have to go out on the street and say that six is more than eleven; that you were very satisfied when the territorialized budget was 6% for Galicia, and yet when Rajoy's government used 11% were very bad budgets. Yes, it's hard to be of the Socialist Party! This initiative is pure and harsh hypocrisy. Hypocrisy is to say that this list in 2005 was a priority and that it was again after that, after four years of government bipartisan, they only got a transfer from that whole list. Hypocrisy is saying that the Government of Feijóo has not achieved any transfer, when in these years we have had two years of Government of Rodríguez Zapatero in which only competences were transferred to communities governed by PSOE or nationalists. Seven years of Mariano Rajoy in which no competition was transferred to any community, basically because most communities were involved. Not Galicia, Galicia maintained financial autonomy. That's our self-government, we shielded it from the Government of Galicia. [[Applause]] And then we had a year of Government Sánchez, where only competences were transferred to Basquedi. By the way, railways and a highway that joins the Basque Country with Castile. Meanwhile, here you have not been able to transfer the AP-9, which is for us the priority transfer, and which, by the way, you forget on your initiative. Therefore, pure hypocrisy. In the PP years in Madrid, circumstances did not allow anyone to transfer anything. In the years of PSOE there are only transfers to whom? to friends, that's reality. We're not the BNG, that's obvious. For us, the priority transfers, the real priorities for Galicia, are AP-9, and the transfers that had to come in the general budgets of the state, which punished our community, and we have already seen that for PSOE, of course, these are not the priorities. So, what's our position? Strengthening our self-government? Of course. We aspire to more and better self-government, according to our constitutional status and our consideration of historical nationality. We also reserve the right to assess whether Galicia should assume any competition that is transferred to another community. We've booked that, too. We have adopted it in this Parliament. Do we want to move forward in the defence of our real self-government, in accordance with the orderly plan and setting priorities? Of course! Of course! But, of course, what we're not prepared to do is use us as an alibi so that Pedro Sanchez can give in to nationalists and secessionists if he is the most voted and requires his support to continue in Moncloa. That's what he's hiding behind this initiative...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u319	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u320	...that I'm sure you wouldn't present in these circumstances if there weren't general elections around the corner. You're not thinking about Galicia when you present this initiative. They're not even thinking about the Socialist Party. You are thinking of nothing but the resistance, survival, of Mr. Pedro Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u321	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u322	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u323	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Group author of the non-law proposal, Mr. Fernández Leicega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u324	The truth is that the initiative was registered on February 13th, the elections were not called. Anyway, there's that little detail. It's okay. In any case, I appreciate the support of the two opposition groups. The truth is, I'm staying with Mr. Bará's support, and I'm not going to give any credit to him. We're on an election campaign and I understand this has to be done this way. In any case, I'll say, they like it or they don't like it, that we'll continue to defend the expansion of self-government. We're convinced autonomists and we're going to do it by conviction in all circumstances. Sometimes our proposals will prosper and others will not. [[Applause]] Sometimes we will have difficulties even to convince the Socialist Party in Madrid to support these demands, as is the case with all those parties that have a presence in the whole territory, but that will not prevent us from doing so. This morning I listened with some sadness that if we were recriminalized that we didn't support the drug catalog, because our group supported that proposal from the People's Party at that time and we were also in favour of it, even though we didn't like some people from the Socialist Party in Madrid. But we supported it the same way because it seemed to us that it was reasonable and that it was good for Galicia. Mr. Sánchez, don't worry, I'm used to the fact that the positions I stand for are cost-effective, that's all. They've been in worse things! In any case, advice. It's probably more dangerous for you this example of self-conformity than for me. Don't worry, we're all taking risks in these circumstances, too. [[Applause]] And I'm not going to go into many more issues because, in fact, there was no debate about the whole of the initiative, but only about the circumstances around it. I have to say that I do not think it very reasonable to pretend to be in favour of self-government, to proclaim it ardently, to do it in the press, to do it in this Parliament, and then not to be prepared to take any effective steps in your behalf. I also have to say that I don't find it very reasonable to make a defense as you did yesterday to the counsellor, closed, of the linguistic model, but at the time of truth Mr. Feijóo is unable to say that the Greek must be a requirement for the public administration because that is also part of the linguistic model that we are defending. Then why don't you say so? Why do you retire? That's what I think -- I said this morning and I repeat it again -- which I think is taking up the VOX schedule, which is polluting other sectors and which can end up making us have an excessively centralizing reading of our autonomic state. As I know the president of Parliament is going to ask me to say something about the amendment, and after listening to Mr Tellado, I'm going to accept the amendment to add BNG and I'm going to make a deal with the BNG to also incorporate AP-9 where it puts AP-53, so that we can vote on both things. At the time this initiative was registered, I was confident that the legislation would be extended long enough to make the transfer of AP-9 a reality, so it's not introduced into this legislation. You did the good faith you're doing this! Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u325	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the actions to be promoted by the Government of Galicia to incorporate equality clauses into the public procurement of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u326	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u327	As much as worse, Mr. Leicega... [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] Players aside, that by this afternoon we already need to take the Roll of the People's Party with a little humor, let's go to the question. Ladies and gentlemen, on March 3rd in Lugo, and on March 8th in the streets all over the country, again, and against all kinds of pessimistic or demonizing expectations, the women of this country once again make history and we go out again to the street to demand a change of course to put an end to inequality, violence and, ultimately, to machoism. The fact is that we were also doing in the previous plenary session the reflection that, one year after the historic 8th of March 2018, there had not been a sufficient response by the institutions, and this also deserves a correction by the Government of Greece, since in 2019 all expectations were exceeded. Every day you have more difficult to stay in your ivory tower and can't continue to ignore the demands of machismo. That is why this proposal comes with a constructive and positive sense in this House, with the aim of assuming that mandate, because we think we can and should do more. Ladies and gentlemen, in a country where the pay gap has been illegal for decades, and yet the INE salary structure survey points out that our country's workers earn an average of more than 5,000 euros less than men, something fails. If since 2009 the pay gap in our country has increased by almost a thousand euros, it is that something fails. When we see that this increase is four times more intense than in the rest of the state, it's more evidence than that equality that appears within the legal framework often does not move into reality. This, the wage gap, is an example of the many that we could put on women's discrimination in the world of work. We understand that they show disgust in the application of legislation, and often the recipes that have been applied even have noticed their failure. So we have to explore new possibilities and new proposals, to see how to actually put what is already said in the theory of legislation. In this sense, the public sector is absolutely key, it must be the mirror in which the private sector looks at issues of equality. And the public sector also has, from our point of view, the responsibility to be vanguarded, too, and to push for the changes that society sets. Today we are bringing forward a proposal in this area, in the public sector, and in particular in the field of self-employment, in the field of public procurement, because public procurement has a decisive influence on economic dynamism and also conditions social development, therefore, it is undeniable that it has an absolutely enormous transformation power. That's why we think it must be rejected for more criteria than absolute deregulation and for more criteria than only the economic value and economic weight of the lowest price. We think that public authorities should take into account the general interests of society, so this question could be asked: is equality part of the general interest? Well, according to legislation, yes, we think that too, but the fact is, in practice, we don't notice, because we have an absolutely underdeveloped legal framework in this sense, because there are pieces there that could help us open doors, but very few governments have tried to override. Twelve years ago — I repeat, twelve years ago! — the State Organic Law itself for the effective equality of women and men, Law 3/2007, already collected the possibility of conditions and clauses in its articles, such as 33, concerning public administrations. Also the Law of 2007, Galician, of women's equal work in Galicia, collected possibilities for the role of counseling and accompaniment of the Greek administration itself, but the fact is that all this has not developed as it might be expected. We could also talk about Article 25 of the Law on the Rationalization of the Autonomic Public Sector of 2013, and I literally read a piece of this article: "They will be included, as far as possible because of the object of the contract, criteria relating to gender equality." Once again, we see how between the legal texts and reality there is a chasm, and I could put all afternoon examples of this because, at this time, Mr.Núñez Feijóo's government policy has been characterized by zero effort, zero social dialogue and zero accompaniment of the Administration. And also for a lot of promises, as when in 2015 bombo and dishillo cut off Mr. Feijóo's sleeve that guide to socially responsible public procurement. In fact, by rescuing the public statements of our Lord President of Galicia, he said: "In the issue of equality, contracts must include the gender perspective in the technical specifications, complying with the applicable laws. For example, the prescriptions of a contract that is subject to the development of an advertising campaign must require that their language and content be not sexists." We are left with this example which is already ahead of time that it has been wet paper, because four years later the usual tone — we have picked up any agreement from the Galician Union — is that, at the very most, equality issues are a criterion of disembarkation. Most of the time, the presentation of a self-equality plan already shows the little commitment, because we already know that the existence of an equality plan is not panacea either. I brought two examples and I could bring many more. Last year, 2018, the contract for the granting of services of the Montealegre Minors Centre in Ourense. They will remember your lords that center was public until the Galician Union invested millions of euros in reforming it and became private. Children's centre, juveniles with legal guardianship who in many cases are subjected to situations of male violence, which might be thought to be a suitable contract to include equality clauses, we see that it is only a criterion of disenfranchising the existence of such equality plans. But since the President of Galicia's Board had so much effort in sexist language, I endeavored to look for a contract that could fit some demands in that direction. Also at the end of 2018, in the contract for the observatory of the Greek language, we see that it is no longer the first criterion of dislocation of something related to equality or to non-sexist language — which does not even appear in the nail — is that it is not according to the criteria of dislocation; hypothetically, it is the third criterion of dislocation of the question of having an equality plan. Or the fourth criterion of disenfranchising this hypothetical mark of excellence in equality, which we followed after yesterday's debate without really knowing how many companies can have it in this country right now. Therefore, we can see how the words of the president of Galician Union really took the wind, which... a lot of purple ties and little practice! Time goes by, the legal framework is giving new opportunities, as is also the new Public Sector Contracts Act 2017, which transposes European provisions and regulations in the field that could help to unify these procurement processes a little bit and incorporate these issues, but they are also wasted opportunities. The truth is the balsaes are there but they don't take advantage of themselves to go to another frame. And it's a shame, because we understand that the model of public procurement is very important and very direct to the quality of life of citizenship. Not only who has to provide these services, but also who receives them, therefore conditions social and labor relations, social rights and the quality of work. Therefore, the Administration should be exemplary and should help it to be a model of transformation and avoid what ends up happening many times, which is that the Administration itself is complicit in inequality. But we see that there is a lack of political will, and that political will could result in a bet on providing tools to advance in the autonomic public sector in these recruitment clauses in the field of equality and avoiding issues that we later discussed in this House. Today we're talking about telemarketing in the morning, for example. The Galician Union has various subcontracted services to telemarketing companies in our country. Coherent equality clauses and periodically evaluated in contracts could avoid situations like those given and that workers who were here this morning might test, which is that when they are in a maternity situation and demanding those conciliation rights, they are eventually forced to reduce the day-to-day, for example. We could put other examples, too, of the field of research, which we have also discussed in this House recently. We saw that public contracts such as the administrative cleaning services of the Galician board in Santiago de Compostela had wage cracks, and it was only the mobilization of the workers that led to the participation of the Galician board in its correction. That, with the clauses established and properly monitored, could be avoided. It could also be prevented from companies like Buses de Calo, convicted again and again for sexual harassment to Nelida Pisco, still receiving public money. That's, finally, going from theory to action, and what we propose in our initiative is just a roadmap that serves as a starting point for us to go from theory to action, to squeeze this frame, which is sometimes small but also gives us opportunities for us to approve, within six months, a process of diagnosis, planning and setting up evaluation mechanisms so that we can form between all of us and all of the evaluation mechanisms of the community itself, so that there is a commission to follow up on that and also for this House to be involved in the follow-up of how...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u328	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u329	... moving forward in this. Comparisons are odious, but we have examples throughout the Spanish State of how other administrations have placed themselves, fulfilled that role of counseling, example and monitoring, and were able to move forward in this situation. We regret that today, in terms of public procurement and equality, Galicia is in line instead of being vanguard, as we could be if there were political will. That's why we brought this proposal, to try and get us to open this...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u330	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u331	I'm walking down a creek to go on. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u332	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u333	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. The Socialist Parliamentary Group will fully support this initiative, which is very correlated with other initiatives aimed at promoting the effective equality of women and men in the labour market and in the labour market. I suppose that all political groups should and will act in this way on this initiative, although we could have some doubts because yesterday precisely the People's Parliamentary Group rejected a motion put forward by our group, in which one of the measures, precisely, was the effective application of measures and clauses for equality of women and men in self-employment. Public procurement, as it is conceived at European level and consequently in our country, is no longer only an instrument of supply, as Mrs Presas said, of raw materials and services in the best conditions for recruitment bodies, but, in addition to this traditional function, public procurement is conceived as a tool through which public authorities sink into other strategic policies such as horizontal social, environmental or innovation policies. These are words or phrases from the explanatory statement of Royal Decree 94/2918 of 2 March of Government Feijóo. I have serious doubts that this decree was signed at this time by Mr. Casado if he was hypothetically President of the Government, because this is a real decree which establishes a measure that could be perfectly extrapolated to Galicia in the sense that this initiative is formulated, because that is what the Inter-Ministerial Commission sets out to incorporate social criteria into public procurement. And if this is the case, if we in Galicia have the sufficient legal framework in the field of equality for men and women and in the field of basic regulations for public sector contracts, why not go ahead? There was talk yesterday, and I suppose we'll also talk later, about a series of data on wage cracks and glass ceilings that, apart from the INE, also presented technicians at the Ministry of Business, and there was some data that seems relevant, beyond general data, that were more than worrying. In this sense, we must bear in mind that the minimum inter-professional wage for women in Galicia is below the SMI in 180,000 women, the 2017 exercise data, which means 37% of the women employed in Galicia. There are a number of data, by economic sectors, which can also be interesting to guide precisely social clauses in the area of equality between women and men in the labour market, because we observe how in agriculture, livestock and forestry the wage divide is above 43%; in the trade, repair and transport sector, which occupy 20% of the employed, the divide is above 38%; in the financial sector it is highly worrying because the divide is above 42%; in the service sector and businesses, of 39%; and a highly feminized sector, but which is at 30%, as is social services, the divide is still 21%. They are economic sectors that make an X-ray of the situation of women in the Italian labour market, and they can guide where to work when incorporating equality clauses in the recruitment of the autonomic public sector. I think that, fortunately, even if you can try to underestimate the social agenda of a government, which is much contempt, less bad that we have social Fridays and we don't have black Fridays or Fridays of austereness. I believe that, in that sense, it is very important to put into force all the measures which in the field of equal work are before Decree Law No. 6/2019 of 7 March, which we could almost say is a decree for the dignity of women in the field of work. [[Applause]] In this sense, and to conclude, we have made it clear that the legal framework exists, both at the autonomous level and, above all, at the basic level in the field of public procurement. We must also remember, as mentioned in the explanatory statement on the grounds of this initiative, that Article 202 of the Public Sector Contracts Act, which has one year of supervision, is clearly the possibility of including special conditions in the execution of contracts to promote equality between women and men, including by establishing possibilities for preference in the assessment of contracts in cases of equality between offers, taking into account objective criteria. In this sense, Article 202 provides for the effective introduction of these clauses to eliminate inequalities between men and women, favouring measures that promote equality of women and men at work, promote women's greater participation in the labour market and the reconciliation of work and family life. Even with the possibility that these clauses become possibilities for penalising contracts or even for cases of contractual resolution. It's more...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u334	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u335	...—Fixed, President— these clauses would apply to subcontracting. That is why there is still evidence of effective labour discrimination, we have a sufficient framework of work, and the only lack of political will on the part of the German Government. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u336	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u337	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. President. From the Marea Group we will no doubt support this initiative of the Nationalist Block Galego because it responds to several of the claims that were clearly and mostly shouted last year, 8M in 2018, and we will no longer say this year 2019. Indeed, executives, parliaments, state and autonomous chambers have a huge responsibility to the economic and social model imposed in a country. You can drive or destroy a type of model or other through public resources, money from all and all, and through the laws, norms and concrete measures of the various public policies. That's why we believe that more than ever, after this 8M of 2019, and now that some party-allied political force that governs the Galician Union directly attacks feminist politics and the women that we are defending a feminist model to achieve equality between all and all in our country, must be absolutely clear on this. I heard today very concerned and very much overwhelmed as Mr. Married and Mr. Rivera opposed the eight-week extension of maternity and paternity leave, and I think the People's Party should explain how they could be against something that would benefit 100 percent of the population. We know that these kinds of measures work and that there are certain social models that cannot be left to the free will of the functioning of capital, of the market, because neoliberal theses clash in front of the social model and therefore with our feminist model; that they leave behind women, the most disadvantaged and the most disadvantaged. We want a society that is feminist, that is egalitarian, and in addition now we have a mobilized society that claims the same, even though it weighs. Public contracts, in our opinion, must contain social, environmental, innovation, eco-xist clauses and, of course, today, in 2019, must include feminist clauses, because that is the way to achieve real equality in the labour market, as in all sectors, and for that it is essential that these criteria should add up to the taxation of contracts with the money of all of them. Just as certain types of contracts already include clauses to incorporate people with functional diversity, and they work, and we see how in the public administration's selective processes they have taken steps to incorporate people with functional diversity as well as women's equal incorporation through, for example, equal opposition courts, conciliation and labour pay measures, there is a pending subject in the public administration's eid with the glass ceiling, which is one of the major obstacles that still exists in the administration, and there is clear evidence. January 2018 data in the Autonomous Community of Galicia, in the Italian country, in the councils and autonomous bodies, show that among the officials and career officials we meet with 4,172 women and 3,260 men; among the officials and temporary staff, 450 women, 283 men; and in the fixed labors, 2,401 women, 2,278 men; in the temporals, 1,920 women and 1,399 men. We therefore need a good public policy designed for us, for women, that you are involved in this issue to promote this kind of feminism and equality policies in the context of public procurement, in order to be able to impose it on the employment and recruitment model, and that you are involved in its elaboration and planning by social agents, feminist collectives and, of course, with the employers' organizations that also have this same objective, that there are, even though the People's Party does not create it. And, of course, a thorough and rigorous assessment, to avoid possible tricks that prevent the achievement of the object of this public policy, which is real and effective equality. Training and education is essential, and the momentum of legal changes in order to shield the compulsoryity of these types of clauses in public procurement, where Galicia is very weak. Because, even if you want to put the sambenito that we are against companies and businessmen, we want businessmen to comply with the law and the rules, so we promote laws and rules that guarantee equality, that guarantee these conditions worthy of women and that they contribute socially to this country feminist, social, equalitarian and ecological that we want and that, fortunately, many entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs already share with us. Not for others, but for that, governments and parliaments have to push these kinds of measures. To finish, I just want to tell you exactly one thing that happened to me and the comrades who weren't from any political organization when we ended the strike day last Friday. When we returned home, we passed by a trade where there were two hosts and the owner of the trade, and they asked me, because I was going with the shirt that I was unemployed for, why we supported that, that he was against as an entrepreneur, because he had the freedom to hire those who wanted to, and he was not at all willing to hire women because they were pregnant and then missing work. I was very concerned and I told him that, within his freedom, fortunately we live in a country where he is legal and can take legal measures and rules that can prevent or can stop such thoughts. But I was very hopeful because his two other comrades, sitting next to him, came down their heads with shame, recriminalized them and told him that they thought the opposite of what he was thinking. So, therefore...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u338	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u339	...I believe that, in fulfilling our responsibility, we must comply here to move to society, which has already cried out for the same thing as us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u340	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. García Míguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u341	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. I, to begin my intervention, will not remember the women victims of macho violence who have died these days, I want to remember the twelve children and the twelve girls, who are the youngest orphans victims of this macho violence, that some of them, unfortunately, is witness of how their father kills their mother. I want to remember them today because I'm the most disadvantaged right now, right now. We must go out to the streets with banners, but above all we must be up to it. Not only go out the streets and talk here about 8M being a very important movement, about demonstrations... what about the consensus that we have to reach in this Parliament, to maintain consensus on what unites us, to be able to give solutions to all the children and all the children who are now in this very dramatic situation? And, of course, for all the people who are living situations of violence, to show them that there is a way out. And we have to adopt points on which we agree, that is the subject of yesterday's PSOE, that we wanted to adopt points to reach agreements and some consensus, because we cannot agree at all, but on what if we join together we must support each other to solve the situation we are living today. [[Applause]] Of course, to begin my speech on the subject which we are brought here today, which is the Greek public procurement, the speech of the Galician Nationalist Block, nothing surprises us, is a catastrophic speech as well we are used to. But look, in Galicia we're at the time, at the stage, of Industry 4.0, in 5G and with an objective, which is the 2030 Agenda for Equality. The petroglyph era is over. It indicates in its proposal not of law that equality has a child's legislation in Galicia and that, in addition, its translation into reality is also a child's. I think they are confused, because all the experts who have come to the Committee on Equal Opportunities between men and women — I like to repeat their speeches and move them to all Members and all Members, I like to say — what they move us is that we have a legislation of excellence and that we have to be very proud of it, and the Nationalist Block Galego also, of course, too. I'm going to show you that excellence of what I'm talking about with regard to the Greek public procurement and the inclusion of equality measures in it. Today, these social clauses, as they well said, are reflected in the various phases of the procurement file, in the definition of the contract object and in the general provisions, in the preparation of the file for the selection of tenderers, in the purpose, in the fulfilment and termination of administrative contracts and, of course, in the adjudication in them. As you know, it increases the score of companies that have implemented an equality plan and also take into account higher scores that present reconciliation measures for working, personal and family life. You, in your proposal, speak of state laws and laws of European framework, but here we have our law of 2013 of rationalization of the autonomous public sector, which, as you well said in your intervention, in Article 25 expressly speaks of the socially responsible recruitment; but not only in point 1, but also in point 2 and point 3, of the law, where it is reflected that the inclusion of social criteria within the criteria of adjudication will be considered. And in development of that law there is a guide to socially responsible public procurement. As you reflect, we have a legislation of excellence. By the way, this law that has been passed in this parliament, the Law on the Rationalization of Public Sector Contracts, has been voted against, has not been supported either by the PSOE or by En Marea or by the Nationalist Galego Block. You can't snuck and blow at the same time. You can't ask for a number of measures here and then, when the People's Party pushes them and wants to carry them out, vote against them. In order to end, with regard to social dialogue, he knows that in February 2019 there is a social dialogue between the council and the unions in force; he is working to initiate the process of improving social clauses, and, of course, one of the thrust themes within them will be technological transformation, future employment, and equal opportunities between men and women. Within your initiative, what you ask for is not innovative, nothing new. They're talking about tracking and evaluating the recruitment process; they're doing it and they're getting better. They're talking about incorporating equality clauses; there's more there are there. And, of course, an annual report on the dissemination of good practices is already reflected within the law itself and there will be. With regard to legislative amendments, when necessary, it will be put in place. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, nothing new, which is why we will vote in favour, because it is something being done. He's working to improve within the Galego Labour Relations Council. All hands with the unions, the government and the employer. And, of course, there is a process of social dialogue with well-defined objectives, with a transparent purpose and a priority of quality and equality in Greek public procurement. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u342	Thank you, Mrs. García Míguez. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u343	To thank En Marea and the Socialist Party for their support and that they are on the same planet, which is to thank you for giving such a debate a little coherence. Mr. Villoslada spoke of the concern — which I also share — that increases the pay gap in our country. He gave the data from the women who charge SMI in this country. I would also like to recall that in 2017 there were 98,985 — 98,985 — a whole city — Greek women who paid less than the SMI. This is scandalous in itself, but let's stop to ask ourselves — it would be very interesting — how many of these women have a salary that depends on a public administration, because we might take a surprise with home help workers, for example, or as many other sectors where the Administration acts as a precautionary rather than a dignitary. But that will be the subject of other initiatives. Home! Mrs. Míguez, who isn't the height here is you, because many come to talk about children who are victims of masculine violence, to me it seems great, I am also worried, but I set the same example as I did in my initiative. A telemarketing worker who works for one of the Sergas subcontracts that finances Galician Union after a long privatization process; a working woman, teleoperator, who is a victim of macho violence, if you want to reconcile for that reason, thanks to not having equality clauses you will find many pitfalls, and you will have to end up taking job losses and other kinds of issues. So the concern is very good, but we need to broaden the focus a little so that it gets to reality. You yesterday, when you prepared this initiative, you must have gone to look petroglyphs because you talked about it, instead of looking at what you are doing or not doing your government, because you came here directly to lie. I reviewed the legislation and made mention of laws that are state-owned but affect us. If you want to negotiate the independence of this country from tomorrow, and if you want us to have a German-only framework, I think it's great, but there are recruitment issues and employment issues that depend on the state. I have also reviewed the Galicians and those who are failing to comply, like that phantom guide, because it is a phantom guide that the Welsh Administration does not implement. And I brought here contracts, recent examples of the last few months of the People's Party Government. You weren't able to take a contract and set it as a positive example, that, man!, among thousands of them, some will. And then mind you also saying that what you propose here is already being done, because it's fake. At the first point, we propose within that six-month period with that methodological process that they describe earlier, is to follow the model of countries such as Euskal Herria or Iceland, which have designed a process of accompanying the Administration, because there are reluctance. There are reluctances in political power itself, there are reluctances in business power, there are reluctances to implement these equality clauses, and there is a need to overcome them, even those of legal operators. There are also legal studies within the state to support these roadmaps. He said there was follow-up and evaluation. False, radically false! The evaluation structures proposed here do not exist, Mrs. Míguez, and you know it perfectly. Just as there is no follow-up within the areas of government itself. An annual report on how this state of affairs is, so that we do not enter into this discussion of who is lying or ceases to lie. Let's put objective data, reports from the administration itself. It's not done either. Finally, push the necessary changes to pass the optionality, which remains on paper and does not change to reality, to a mandatory within parameters, as neither does it. So, look, what's not acceptable is that you come here to say four things about the argumentary that don't correspond to reality and then ask the groups for a supposed responsibility that for you is reduced to applauding, not making constructive proposals, or asking for compliance with the law, or moving forward in the framework that we have.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u344	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u345	That's what it can't be, Mrs. Míguez, because for that we're not, and we've already told them over and over, and that's why we're not going to pass. When they rectify and want Galicia to move forward, we'll be there. While, of course, it doesn't contain our complicity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u346	Thank you. She said she voted in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u347	At all points?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u348	Of course! He said he voted in favour. He said he voted in favour of the non-law proposal. She gave him a little too much towel and didn't do it. I say, it's a way of talking. He said he voted in favour from the beginning. I already realized that I didn't understand what she said, because the debate... that's why I tell you, because she said she voted in favour and you now did a replica debate positioning practically with a vote against her, that manifested the bean, and perhaps they didn't understand. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But it's okay. It's okay. The important thing is the vote. The debate is over. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de In Marea, on the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and two other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made by the Central Government in relation to the gender pay gap and the inequalities in the labour market, as well as the re-evaluation of pensions
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u349	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled. [[(G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of his colleague Patricia Otero Rodríguez, through the spokesman and the authorship of the provisions of Rule 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, presented the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal to the Bureau. (doc.46293).Amendment of amendment. Point 6 of the resolution of the initiative must be replaced by the following:"6. Collaborate with the Government of Spain to ensure the total free education of 0 to 3 years."Amendment of amendment. Paragraph 7 of the resolution of the initiative must replace the content of points (a) (b) and (d)]] , for the following texts: "a)If they continue to make changes in the regulation of part-time work to make it more secure, increasing the degree of protection of the working class, especially of women. (b) Impulse plans of the Labour Inspectorate to avoid discrimination against women. (d)Recover the centrality of the Toledo Pact and dialogue with the social partners, ensuring that the increase in pensions takes place depending on the change in the CPI, as has already happened in 2019."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u350	To formulate the postponement, Mrs. Quinteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u351	Thank you, President. Today we have an initiative that we are seeking to put an end to the historical discrimination suffered by more than half of the population, that we suffer from women, because unfortunately, despite the speeches we have heard here, the existing legislation and the whole legislation, the European recommendations and the own announcements and promises that have been made since the Government, the reality is that our labour market continues to be deeply sexist. And the worst of all is that, far from improving, every day the situation is worse. There is a member of the People's Party who seems to you that I am describing a very different reality. I'd tell all those people who open the door, go talk to all the working women in this country and listen to the real reality that all these women live, because, unfortunately, precariousness has a woman's name and face. And it's not — as I say — a catastrophic account, it's a fact for every person who has a minimum contact with reality. We are the ones who have the highest rates of temporality in employment and we are the ones who charge much less only for being a woman. In fact, the pay gap is about to reach a historic peak, 30%. The evolution of recent years is tremendously negative. That's why we believe that our country's wage inequality is not an isolated fact, it's something structural that goes through all sectors. We just have to see any collective agreement, take a look at it and compare the collective agreements of the most feminized sectors with the collective agreements of the sectors where there is a majority male presence to realize this comparative distress, which is obvious. To give them just one example, an average of €13,588, an average of €20,741, an average of €13,588, an average of €20,741. We're talking about the gender gap in this case being 7,000 euros of difference. More than 7,000 euros is the reality that is being denied from the People's Party constantly but living with thousands of women in our country. And we think we can't talk about a democratic society as we continue women working free of charge fifty-two days a year, totally free of charge. We would have to work fifty-two more days, according to conservative calculations, so we could charge the same as men. And the reasons are multiple. One is, of course, that women's jobs have been undervalued for many years. But there are other more concrete issues on which we could act, and it's not being done. One of these we find in the plugins and in the plus that is discreetly given. And here we have to say that, as we are waiting for the Government of Galicia to stand by to take some action with this issue when, having a very close example — that of the North Group, which is a subcontract where the cleaning workers were cleaning up the buildings of the Galician Union themselves — the workers have been reporting for months the situation of masquerade discrimination — which was obvious, that only had to read the job vacancies and speak five minutes to the workers — and they did absolutely nothing! They had to be mobilized for a long time so that the People's Party had listened to a minimum of their demands. But it's not new either. They often denied here the situation of workers cleaning hotels, the situation of telemarketing workers, or, even today, the situation of home workers. For a long time, denying a reality that, unfortunately, is common to many women in our country. And we really don't expect anything. We believe that they will not vote for this initiative. But, as I say, what are we going to wait when your party actually made it very clear, with your president, Mr. Mariano Rajoy, when you said you didn't have to get into the payroll? That statement we want to bring it back here, because it seems to us an insult to all the women in this country who are working and who are paying less only for being women. Women I think we've been showing that we're going to get into it for a long time. On 8 March it was an example and we believe that this Parliament must also adopt this initiative to take steps, to end this historic inequality. On the other hand, when the work day ends after getting out of much more precarious jobs than men's, women have to keep working for hours free of charge. Two and a half hours, about, we devote women more than men to the work of care, that work that is invisible, that is free, that sustains life, but that actually never puts itself in value, that is completely invisible, the work of care. And if we do an average and we analyze how much time women spend on this this this year, we see that it's two and a half months, two and a half months of our life in which women are raising the country, cleaning up, cooking, without that having any value, and not reflected in any official statistics; and invisible until women plant themselves in the last strike of March 8, which I think was a success for many reasons. But one of them was to visualize that work, which, as I say, remained hidden but which actually represents a third of the country's wealth. It was evident from this strike that, if women stop, for the world. Despite the fact that many of us have been on strike, there are many women who unfortunately couldn't stop; many of them because they had to be taking care of parents, children, etc., because they couldn't afford to have these care taken forward from other spaces. The Union's policy on conciliation is regrettable. They offend us deeply when they talk about conciliation — only to see the unfavorable judgments they have within their own Government — and because they do absolutely nothing and vote systematically against women moving forward in this matter. The problem is that this situation in the labour market, and this situation of overloading reproductive work, makes many women, when they retire, suffer from poverty. We believe that this initiative is about three themes, which are not the same but are very related, because pensions depend precisely on that work outside the home and also on the work of caretakers. We believe it's an initiative that would help us move towards a more feminist country. And if they vote against this initiative today, they are not voting against this parliamentary group, they are voting against women. And we ask for things as basic as compliance with legislation. Once again — as we said yesterday and have already said in this House in other debates — we want what has been passed 12 years ago is the minimum we demand. And also that they comply with what was approved here two years ago and peak, which did not move forward until today, however much they say yes. Another question: we want the work of care to be, which is, to be visible, in the surveys and studies that the Administration does, because it's the least to value this work. Then, we insist again on very necessary measures — and until we achieve this, we will continue to insist — to equate paternity and maternity permits to 100 percent and to ensure that education for 0-3 years is guaranteed in the public, two measures that would help motherhood cease to be a labour market penalty for women. Because it's no use to say that they want to end motherhood as a penalty, that they want to support pregnant women, when they then keep rules that are as discriminatory as that. We want you to never ask a woman again if you have children, if you have a partner, or if you have thought about having children at some point. And measures like these will make the child stop being associated, yes or yes, with women. We are in a context of supposed economic recovery -- or so you often say -- but economic recovery did not reach the homes of our country, nor did it come to the women of our country, it had no impact on any job improvement for the women of Galicia. And, on the pretext of the crisis, they cut down public services, cut down the Dependency Act, and all they did was carry forward work reforms that facilitated redundancies, which made it easier for wages to go down and reduce the rights of the entire working class, but especially women. So today, what we have to do is to put an end to these austerity policies that have been going on for so many years. Women no longer stand a macho government that legislates against women. We think this is happening today. On 8 March, I believe that we all saw a feminist Galician, the women of this country have very clear claims and we believe that it is time for this Parliament to hear these demands, to move to legislation, but above all to action. We don't need roles that are not met, political will is needed and everything that is applied here is needed. Above all, I am deeply disturbed that one speaks of a reality that does not exist, that speaks of a Galician which is a lie. They go out and stop selling that everything goes better, that everything is wonderful, because the reality is that our country's women are precarious, that most women in our country continue to take care of them, mostly, and that they have absolutely no support from this administration. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u352	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quinteiro. I would ask the Members and Members to speak to each other a little bit lower. I didn't want to interrupt the honourable Member, but I hear a lot of murmuring. Mr Otero Rodríguez has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u353	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Again we are debating the wage and labor inequalities that we suffer from women. The theme of the pay gap between men and women is brought back to this House. And as much as you care for the Members and the Members of the People's Party, at this rate in Galicia it would take 615 years to achieve that equality. And let me tell you that we cannot tolerate that women in our community wait more than six centuries to achieve this equality. Without looking for a position on the lists that my party will present to the next elections — because I know they will find me — I think it is fair to acknowledge that since Mr Sánchez's government, if the measures are being taken to eliminate this pay gap. And don't get angry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, because what I'm going to say is something you asked for in the previous plenary. You were urging the Central Government to pass a wage equality law. I imagine you will be happy today because Mr Sánchez's government has heard, among other things, his claims and approved this Pay Equality Act, thereby dodging the political filibusterism shown by both PP and Citizens by blocking the processing of this law from the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies. [[Murmurs.]] From the Socialist Group we agree with the substance of the GNP presented by En Marea, but we have tabled a number of amendments which we believe are useful to carry out some of their requests. With regard to point 6, we believe that it is necessary to collaborate with the Government of Spain in order to ensure the total free education of 0 to 3 years. We are in favour of the free teaching of 0 to 3 years, and this was one of the points of the agreement reached by United Podemos and the PSOE, and which was also in the state's general budgets by 2019. But since these budgets have not been approved, we believe that it is necessary for the Council of Galicia to cooperate with the Government of the State in order to analyse and see who and how this free public education sustains it. With regard to point 7(a) of the GNP, we agree that there is a lot of law fraud in part-time recruitment, which mainly affects women. And this is one of the causes that points out all the experts in their reports on the pay gap. It is necessary to make part-time recruitment regulation that makes it more secure, increasing the degree of protection of the working class, especially for women. But, although we recognize that there is a lot of road to go in this direction, from the Central Government there are going to be steps to fight this fraud: labour inspection campaigns, approval of the obligation, for companies, of the workers' hours register, which will serve mainly so that the Labour Inspectorate can control bias in recruitment when changing the Staff Regulations and the LISOS. We cannot forget that the largest number of complaints received by the Labour Inspectorate in 2018 are related to working time. The Council of Ministers also equated, when accessing unemployment benefit, the right of vertical part-time workers — those who concentrate their hours of work in less days — with those of horizontal part-time workers, those who do their business in five days a week. This regulatory change favours access to unemployment benefit as well as benefit, by facilitating the accreditation of the minimum contribution period to qualify for this benefit. Besides, the duration of the study increased. In point 7(b), we need to promote work inspection plans aimed at avoiding discrimination against women. The Socialist Government approved the 2018-2020 work director plan, which included 75 measures providing the Labour Inspectorate with a tool to deal with labour market problems. The main objective of this plan is to recover working rights and improve the quality of employment and working conditions. This plan has increased the number of troops in the inspection. And already in August 2018 two plans were put in place: one to fight fraud in temporary recruitment and another to combat abuse in partial procurement. It is also a plan that designs an inspection action with a gender perspective, because we cannot forget that Organic Law 3/2007 combines public authorities with the transversal application of the gender perspective effectively in their ordinary activity, and therefore the Labour Inspectorate cannot be sidelined with this mandate. And with regard to point 7.(d) what En Marea is asking for in her initiative is what is happening today. The Socialist Government has left 0.25% of Mr. Rajoy's Government without effect and rose pensions according to the change in the CPI in 2019, because, unlike the PP, it could. Trade unions and employers were also set up to agree on a new system within six months, as recommended by the Toledo Pact. But allow me, Mrs. Quinteiro, which I am surprised that you are bringing here today what you ask for in point 7.d) of your initiative, since it was a true disappointment that, by pure political electoralism, United States-Power and PP had broken the agreement of the Toledo Pact, when agreements were already reached at the most delicate points. What was being sought in the Toledo Pact was a consensus, which was the best thing we could move to citizenship. [[Strong murmurers.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u354	Silence! Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u355	Finished, President. That is why we tabled a replacement amendment to this point 7 (d) which says "to recover the centrality of the Toledo Pact and dialogue with the social partners, ensuring that the increase in pensions takes place according to the change in the IPC, as has already happened in 2019". Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u356	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u357	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. We're going back here, to the country, which looks like we didn't have government or skills, that everything had to come from the central government. Without a doubt, he has a lot of responsibility for the current situation, but, well, starting from the basis, for example, of what has to do with the teaching of 0 to 3 years, the Greek Government has full competence in the field of education, in the field of social services, and could guarantee for itself the right to access to education from 0 to 18 years, as since the BNG we have defended on countless occasions. It's simply a question of starting and more of setting, because historically it was considered that the incorporation of women into the labour market, into wage labor, was almost the solution or panacea in the process of emancipation of women. The solution to discrimination, to the historical oppression of women, was through our incorporation — I insist — to that waged work in the current economic framework. They have spoken many names of the feminist movement about this, one of them is Silvia Federici. In the year 2019, in the middle of the 21st century, we are talking about the wage gap; of the crystal roofs; of the feminization of poverty; of the dual day in work and at home, of what is called double mental burden; of the fact that we have to be constantly pending that one will buy, that one will eat, as we will organize within the house, which is also spoken of from the field of psychology. What we're going to need is a process of social, political and economic transformation that is far broader than the mere incorporation of women into the labour market. The fact that this was one of the issues that focused on the demands and demands of the feminist movement on 8 March 2018, International Women's Day, and that one year later there were these historic mobilizations that recently took place also in our country, shows that the overall role. Mrs. Quinteiro expressed it differently, but she also said it in her intervention: the thermal paper at all, but it doesn't change reality for itself. It is essential that rights be collected in standards — that is absolutely fundamental — but that does not transform reality alone. What is required is political will, political impulse and, above all, what is required of governments, public administrations, is that they take human rights as a priority for the population as a whole. We will not tire of insisting and repeating, in this House and out of it, that feminist policies go about this, of the radical idea that women are people, and that as people, we must therefore see guaranteed all rights inherent to our human condition: the right to work; the right to a decent wage; the right, for example, not to be violated, not to be oppressed or discriminated against simply by being women. And I'm saying that the hard role of everything, but it doesn't transform reality itself by itself, because today -- said my comrade Noa Presas in the previous intervention -- the pay divide is illegal, the role says it's illegal that a woman, for the same work as a man, covers less, but reality is completely contrary. We see that this wage gap is absolutely real and tangible, we've seen it before, just as it is real, that 37% of our country's working women do not reach their wage at the minimum interprofessional wage; that 1 in 4 women is below the poverty line; that women sign mainly part-time contracts and take part-time reductions, with the corresponding wage reduction, to take care of children or care of dependent adults. More than 90% of the requests for a reduction in days for conciliation are signed or applied for — worth redundancy — by women because stereotypes and gender roles — absolutely patriarchal and macho — of a caring mother exist, they are also a reality, and they are also very lucrative, because all the work done at home and that is not paid is a very important saving for administrations and the economic system itself. The precariousness that women endure is evident, for example, in that in 2018, of the contracts signed by women workers, there was an average of four contracts each, and the duration of these contracts — in almost half of the temporary contracts — was less than one month. So that we can see that the X-ray of that reality that we live is completely contrary to what the paper then puts on. We are going to support the full and extensive initiative that it presents — and with this end, President — in Marea, but we also want to defend — not to stand in relation to the amendment of the Socialist Party — that the derogation from labour reforms and pension reforms is maintained, because we believe that these changes in the state labour framework do not have to do with the precarious conditions of work, already precarious, that women suffer in the Spanish state as a whole and also in Galicia is, in fact, trying to cover the sun with one finger.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u358	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. García Míguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u359	Good afternoon again. They come again today The Tides of Podemos with their usual posture, speaking of someone stealing their rights, oppression, exploitation. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is you who are co-governing with Mr. Pedro Sánchez at the Congress of Deputies, who are ruling in this country. With which I believe that if there is a posture, there is a need for rights and someone oppresses them, please do what they have to do, who have been ruling with Mr. Sánchez for nine months, and do it there. Anyway, we're going to respond to all of your proposals, which many of them — as I told you well — could approve them, but it's you who don't want them. We are going to remain in the consensus to work everywhere so that this inequality, this wage gap that is being produced, ceases to happen. With regard to the points of amendment that the Government of Spain is asking for, its partners in the Government, because at the end of the day it is you who are also ruling, that labour reform is being repealed, something Mr Sánchez himself said that he would soon be taking over as soon as he began to govern, today the labour reform, the job creator and the economic accelerator, remains in force. But he continues to announce to Mr. Sánchez that, when he is President of the Government, he will overthrow it again. This looks like the tale of the good pipe, but we keep going. At the second point, they're asking them to increase their work inspections in women's specific control. I invite you to put your hands on the work, because, with regard to this subject, at the Galician Summit, the inspections continue to increase and last Monday was approved at the CEO — simply to make a point—the Galician Board's Business Inspection Plan, I think it's very interesting to reach it this year 2019. The salary of public employees is also published. Mr. Sánchez's last electoral decree is reflected, which is something that will be put into effect. And I also recommend that you see article 28.2 of that electoral order that you reflect there. With regard to the equality plans it also requests, they are in Article 1.2 of that decree. The Galician Union, with regard to business equality plans by 2020, I suppose it will know the Liability Programme, and it has just presented itself a few months ago to the strategy of corporate social responsibility. I think it's something to take into account and it's a firm bet on these equality plans in the Greek companies. They also ask that pensions be revalued and raised according to the IPC, as well as the PSOE companion said. It surprises us. It seems — ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE and gentlemen of En Marea — that we are in the Save me, here it is worth everything, you can say anything, but the reality is that, if there is no re-valorization of pensions for widows and pensioners, it is because of the Lords of the Tide of Podemos, which is not the fault of the People's Party. The People's Party did what it did, when it was ruling Mr. Mariano Rajoy, was to increase the pensions of widows and all pensioners in this country. It was Mr. Mariano Rajoy, when Mr. Zapatero frozen his pensions. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] For the Galician Union, they also have some proposals. The proposal is that the adoption of this Parliament on December 28, 2016, of equal pay, be complied with. That, ladies and gentlemen, would be a point that we would also approve, because they know it's something that's done through the Labour Relations Labour Council, with the employer, with the trade unions and with the Government of the Union. And there was a guide, a study, in an act last January 25, we suppose he'll meet. They also ask for a strategy. I think you will also be aware of the VII Strategic Plan of Equal Opportunities 2017-2020, which is the guide to the work on equality in all government councils of Galicia. They ask for studies for the pay gap. We have studies on the pay gap. We know that from the year 2008 until the year 2017 there are in Galicia four less points of pay gap. And as the counsellor mentioned yesterday in the interpellation, this month will present a study on equal pay for the advancement of the Equal Pay Act for this 2019; certainly, driven by the People's Party. They also request parental and maternity leave to ensure equal, untransferable and remunerated measures. In Galicia we have them through the Council Plan 2018-2021, and the equivalence is progressive so that they are equal and untransferable. Just remind them that in the Law on Measures this year 2019 there was an extension for maternity and paternity permits and, curiously, The Tides of Podemos voted against. Now to finish, with regard to the squares of children's schools, as you well know, the European Union's recommendation is 33% and we're over it, we have 42% of the ratio within this attention to minors. To finish, just remind them that the first equality law in Galicia was a People's Party law, a law by Mr. Manuel Fraga. And it will be a law of the People's Party, the Pay Equality Act, which will end with the pay gap between men and women. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u360	Thank you, Mrs. García Míguez. Author group of the non-legislation proposal, Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u361	Thank you. Well, I don't think the People's Party knows the government of Congress very well. You have great ease to change, in less than a year, what demands the Government according to who governs. We don't care that the Socialist Party that is the People's Party, we demand the same, we're consistent. You've changed in a year and, come on, the hemerotheque is wonderful...! I'd ask that, please... they've been quite altered and altered all day! [[Murmurs.]] The People's Party changes depending on who's in government, not in Marea. I would ask both the Socialist Party and the People's Party to maintain what they are asking for and to have a minimum of coherence. We'll hear a manipulated speech again, lots of lies. The role—the spokesman for the Nationalist Block said very well—repeats everything, and they don't smell at all. There's legislation, there's plans... okay, and something like that actually has an application? How can they make a triumphal speech if they're hearing that women earn an average of EUR 5,480 less than men? How can you say that everything is okay, that Junta does everything to reconcile when 77% of part-time contracts are women, or when there are 37% women in our country who don't charge 700 euros a month? Talk to them! [[Murmurs.]] Tell women to charge less than 700 euros a month that everything is going well, that the People's Party has been in Galicia for many years, leading feminist policies forward and defending equality. It's a lie! They've been making women back in our rights for so many years. And I'm also going into the issue of permits. It's just that there must be a hard face to talk about the maternity and paternity permits and the enlargement they make. You do what you do is increase the gap between men and women, constantly increase it, and what we ask for is equalization, equal to men and women. Because if they say so much that women can't be penalized by maternity, why should we continue to have more permission than they do? Why do we have to keep being the ones we take care of when we give birth? Why? They're telling me. The other day, the spokeswoman of the People's Party said they seemed to be in favor. They're in favor, but they don't. In the competitions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u362	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u363	Yeah, we voted it here, and they did?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u364	Please don't dialogue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u365	Oh, no. Of course! We're in favour, but we're not going to.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u366	Quiet, quiet, quiet. They don't dialogue. Mrs. Prado, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u367	They're in favour of asking Congress when the Socialist Party is here, and when the People's Party is here, they're going to vote against it systematically, just like the Equal Pay Act. Now they asked, in a motion of theirs, for a law of equal pay and of corresponding work. [[Applause]] The law of the United States We can, in common and in tide has been vetoed at the Congress of Deputies by you. It's just that you have to have... the motion they brought on March 8 was embarrassing, a copy and grab...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u368	About the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u369	...and what they asked for were laws that you were vetoing. Now, as the Socialist Party is, now we want them to do it. And electoralist seems to us to be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u370	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u371	...that the IPC doesn't suit itself by law, that it is done by itself...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u372	On the amendments to the PSOE, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u373	...for a year in pensions. We're quite tired of the demagogy that's done on the subject of pensions. Our group is what defends that pensions are better. We have the lowest pensions in the state and you've been taking a long time ahead of policies that make it difficult for everyone, for men and women, but especially for women.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u374	On the amendment of the PSOE, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u375	On the amendment, I do not accept it because one of the points seems fundamental to us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u376	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u377	Labour reforms are the ones that have made the rights of the entire working class worse, especially women.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u378	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u379	And the rest, all the measures that can be taken forward, will be patches that will not have the solution. Thank you. [[Applause]] Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u380	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. After the debate on non-law proposals has been closed, we proceed to vote on them. We started by voting on the non-legislative proposal of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr José Alberto Pazos Couñago. When consulted by the rapporteur, he did not accept amendments from the three groups. We therefore vote. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Alberto Pazos Couñago and eight other Members, on the request of the Government of Galicia to the Vigo Council to return to the consensus reached for the amendment of the Law of the Vigo metropolitan area and the fulfilment of it, as well as the fulfilment of the convention signed on metropolitan transport, guaranteeing the same rates for all users, regardless of their place of origin. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 37; votes against, 27; abstentions, 6. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u381	We are now voting on the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group at the initiative of Mr Julio Torrado. There are no amendments. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela and Ms. Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the impulse of the Galician Union to convene a meeting of the sectoral table dealing with the specific problems of the groups of CAP professionals, emergency services and urgent health transport. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u382	Even if they've been debated together, we're going to vote for them separately. Voting of the non-legislative motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego at the initiative of Ms. Montserrat Prado Cores. With the Socialist Group I proposed a transaction which, if I understood correctly, accepts as an addendum, except for point 2 (a) and (c). Is that correct? [[Assentment.]] We voted for this transaction. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece to improve the situation of primary care. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u383	I said they had a joint debate. We're going to vote on 5th and then we're going back to 4th. Voting of the non-legislative proposal of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea at the initiative of Ms Eva Solla Fernández. I have a transaction to which we have reached the Socialist Parliamentary Group which affects points (c) and (e). In point (c) it is added "in real terms", and in point (e) it is added "and also of nursing specialties." We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. in Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the development by the Galician Board of Directors of a plan to improve primary care, as well as the actions to be carried out in connection with the staffing and working hours of the continuing attention points. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u384	We now vote for the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Jacobo Moreira. Amendments to the proposed groups were not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Galician people, at the initiative of Da María Isabel Novo Farigna and six other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in order to fill the vacancies in the Police Unit Subscribe to Galicia and increase its troops to a minimum of 400. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 50; votes against, 20. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u385	We are now voting on the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Xoaquín María Fernández Leiceaga and two other Members. He accepts the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group with a transaction, according to Mr. Fernández Leicega, including AP-9 and AP-53. Is that correct? [[Assentment.]] We voted for this transaction. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me? All right, shut up. Silence to ask for the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u386	We understand that the transaction is to include in point 21, where it puts AP-53, AP-9.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u387	It's AP-53.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u388	All right. We wanted to ask for a point of order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u389	You have the right, and now you answer the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let the lawyer tell us, because there seems to be no point. Now I don't remember, are there any points or are there no points? Let the lawyers think, that they know more about this than I do and more than you do. Any points? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We will facilitate the vote and try to keep the matter clear, to see what is being voted on. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Tell the lawyer that there's a list of competences. If you want to separate the competitions... do you want to separate the competitions, Mr. Tellado? There are no points. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing. It's all right. It's all right. We're here to let people know what to vote for. This is also my function, it corresponds to me. So we're going to vote. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr Xoaquín Fernández Leiceaga and two other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Galician Union in connection with the assumption of new powers by the Autonomous Community. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u390	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas. No amendments were tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the actions to be promoted by the Government of Galicia to incorporate equality clauses into Galicia's public procurement. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. This non-law proposal is therefore adopted by 70 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u391	We now vote for the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea on the initiative of Mrs Paula Quinteiro. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me? What do you want the word for, Mr. Leicega?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u392	To request a vote on points of this initiative, in particular point 7a.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u393	We read the text and then see if they accept it. First I read what we're going to vote for. Proposal for a non-law of the Parlia­mental Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Mrs Paula Quinteiro Araújo, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made by the Central Government in relation to the gender pay gap and the inequalities in the labour market, as well as in the revaloration of pensions. I do not accept the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Do you accept a point vote? Not at all. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Mr de In Marea, on the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and two other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made by the Central Government in relation to the gender gap and the inequalities in the labour market, as well as the re-valoration of pensions. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 37; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u394	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please, and we continue with the agenda. Interpellation by D. Antón Sánchez García and D. Marcos Cal Ogango, from G.P. of In Marea, on the policy of the Government of Greece in the field of protected housing
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u395	Mr. Sánchez has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u396	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. Empathy is a quality of being able to put oneself in the other's place, and the subject we're going to talk about is very important. To feel in the place of people who are expelled from their homes or who can't access a decent housing because they don't have enough income, because they have economic difficulties, often people who are unemployed, who have lost their jobs, or who have jobs and they don't give them to live dignifiedly. The data just came out and in the second half of 2018 in Galicia there were 800 cancellations for rent default. That means that in Galicia there were four evictions per day, four families who had to leave their homes for not being able to cope with rent payments; an increase of 12% of rents compared to 2017, which has already been a spectacular sub-year of rejections in Galicia. It's 800 defeats in the second half, more than four a day, which means a lot of suffering. Let's get to that place. A spectacular sub of the defiances also followed by a spectacular sub of the rental prices. Counsellor, where are the public mechanisms, the policies of the Galician Union, to regulate prices? Where are the Spanish State's mechanisms to regulate rent prices? It's been a while since we've been saying and announcing that this is a structural problem, because of the policies that prioritized the benefit of speculation about the right to housing. Where are the constitutionalists when we talk about housing? Article 47 says that all Spaniards and Spaniards are entitled to a decent housing. Where are they? We say it is a structural problem that has changed from the real estate bubble caused by mortgage defaults, transmuted into the lease bubble, but ultimately it is the mixture of labour precariousness, low wages, unemployment, temporality, instability combined with the constant rise in the last three years of renters by an increase in demand and by lack of a socially affordable price offer. It is very predictable what is happening — we have seen it repeated — that the wages of the working classes do not rise, that labour stability does not increase, that family income is not increased, and that if they increase is the prices of housing, the prices of renters. And before that, what is the answer to a predictable, structural question? What is the answer? The answer is advertising, propaganda and cosmetic policies and a lack of willingness to change the structure of this country's housing policy, housing policies in which everything is invented. For example, in recent years, we have removed propaganda and advertising outside and seen what has been done since the People's Party governments both in the state and in Galicia. In 2013 a reform of the Law on Urban Rentals has been made since the Government of the State, which has increased the instability of tenants and increased the guarantees and rights of tenants, of large housing owners, which has reduced the minimum rental period from five to three years, which has allowed the renewal of contracts to be with an unregulated price rise, which could be any kind of price increase. In this period of time, while driving out more than six people in Galicia on the day of their homes, the Government of the People's Party approved disgravations to Socimis so that Voitre funds could invest in housing for rent, investing and having tax reliefs to do a greedy business. Now we're starting to see the consequences of those political decisions here. Even in Galicia voitre funds that have bought official shelters, as in Patina, Cambre, and that are now making life impossible for people who live in official shelters who have been subsidised with public money and who are now pasture for the business of voitre funds. The bailout of the banks has been approved, sixty billion euros, of which forty-five thousand will not recover. Sareb was created, the bad bank, where the banks were bought the so-called toxic assets, that is, the houses that the banks decided that they were not business and that therefore we had to assume with public money, and they didn't make themselves available to the people who were going to the street, because, of course, if they put themselves at socially affordable prices these housings on the market for people who need them would lower their housing prices and lower the business of the banks, the voyeur funds and the large owners. And here, as in almost everything, you have to choose sides, you can't get along with each other. Obviously, if you bet on the right to housing, you're going to bother the banks, the voyeur funds and the big owners. You guys made the ransom and didn't put those dwellings at the disposal of the people, you chose sides, you chose the range of the speculators. You in Galicia have frozen the public housing policy of official protection and have not put in place any price regulation mechanism and any effective empty housing mobilization mechanism. To find out your concern about housing, it's only enough to see the evolution of budgets since you came to government in 2009. When you arrived, in the 2009 budgets, housing policy meant 0.37% of GDP, of Galicia's gross domestic product, and in 2019 housing budgets would mean 0.13% of GDP. And they don't come to talk about the crisis or budget cuts, we're talking about both the budgets and the wealth of this country, and it's dropped by a third, and that's the concern you have. If in 2009 it meant 1.74% of the budget, today it means 0.73% of the budget, and we're not talking about the degree of execution of housing games. He also spoke of the importance of creating public housing to regulate prices, to give people who do not have enough income to access the free market, to avoid the drama of evictions, to avoid the drama of many new people who cannot be emancipated. And we're talking about data, INE data. In Galicia in 2010, two thousand and nine hundred houses of official protection began; in 2015, five; in 2016, four. Galicia is in the queue truck of all autonomous communities in the Spanish state except Ceuta, Melilla and Baleares. Counsellor, it is very eloquent that in Galicia they start between thirty-five and fifty times less official protection dwellings than in the middle of the state. In 2015, five houses of official protection; in 2016, four; in 2010, two thousand nine hundred; evidently derived from political decisions and liberalizing policies, for example Law 8/2012, where they lowered the percentage of edifice for protected housing, where you decided that the municipalities did not have to reserve that 30% of soil to build protected housing. That's why we bring this inquiry, Counselor. It's a drama. You are to make decisions, you've been in government for ten years, you can't blame the Bipartite, you can't blame the central government, because they've ruled for six years. You, even in the Government of the State, refused an initiative to apply the Local Housing Regulatory Law, which said that you had to regulate the concept of empty housing so that those municipalities who wanted to put a burden on the Welsh housing, and you blocked the fulfilment of a law that Mr. Aznar himself approved, simply to benefit the large owners of housing, because you work for these large owners of housing, even though you try to make publicity and propaganda. Because, otherwise, it can't be explained. Why, Counselor, did you block this? Have you thought about changing policies to attack the structural causes that cause the tragedy of the evictions? What mechanisms does the Galician Union have to regulate rent prices, housing prices? What are your goals for the public housing park at social prices? What do you think were the reasons why the construction of public promotion housing, of official protection, was frozen in Galicia? What can you tell those people that, for example, they are defeated in Vigo, a woman with children in charge, and what is the alternative to living in Pontecesures? What can you tell those people who are defeated in Ourense and give them as an alternative to go to Valdeorras? What can you tell people that they got kicked out of their houses while you paid them the losses of the happy years of the real estate bubble to the banks? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u397	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Response from the Environmental, Territorial and Living Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u398	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Sánchez, I have the impression — and, like me, I imagine those who tend to be careful — that I am living or we are living on a real Marmota Day. You know what that is. I mean, it repeats itself all the time, and so much so often it repeats that, if at the end of the interpellation you make here today, that is, the questions that you materialize is to defend a work by En Marea, believe me that it didn't cost you very much. And it shouldn't have cost him much because you haven't changed any points, no commas, no arguments in the interpellation that I come here today to answer. So, for at least four months, he hasn't advanced; that is, he's been more of the same again, the questions are the same and, man, at least we could spend five minutes changing the argument a little bit even if we came to say the same thing, because eventually my answer might also be: look, go to the Session Journal because the answer comes the same. But that's really cheating on citizenship, Mr. Sánchez; I mean, I'm here in the afternoon, I'm working but actually I repeat the same thing as November 7th, i.e., a few days ago; therefore, memory hasn't gone yet; specifically, one hundred and twenty-five days. One of two: either there are no questions related to the Counsellor that I say or, on the other hand, you're very busy with certain problems and finally you're stuck with this in the middle and again because we answer again. And there's no problem having to do it. That's right, you come back again with the same arguments; arguments that if we see them were so serious again to override the housing policies of the Galician Union that you might repeat again that the housing bothers you. For now, that hasn't said yet, and Mr. Villares does so with his head, but that's what Mr. Antonio told me four months ago. That's the reality. Since my exposure should not be completely clear, I'm here again to talk to you not only about statistics, but also about realities, palpable realities, and that's what society feels like, and they're policies that are changing according to society's demands. I mean, we don't get stuck, we're not four months without doing anything or just giving the same speech that we've got learned once and a thousand times until, well, somebody gets in through their ears. What are we focused on, Mr. Sánchez? Well, in active housing policies in big cities, especially because it's where there's more demand and where there's more population, and so that's where we have to focus, but we don't stop working for the small municipalities as well. So we have programs directed to big cities, where you rule -- and so you could put us here some other example of those policies, since you so much name the municipalities -- but we also have active and specific policies for smaller municipalities. One example of this is initiatives such as the school teachers' housing rehabilitation program, which is producing very good results, but also, apart from these teacher housing programs, cooperation funds with municipalities or infra-infra-sur-Gleish rural housing; that is, we try to reach every corner with specific policies. And, on the one hand, rehabilitation, but on the other hand, giving the municipalities easy to buy, so that they can be restored and that they can make their neighbors and neighbors available at more than affordable prices. And the figures are there, no matter what you say four dwellings, five dwellings, six dwellings. I'm telling you, distribution in different parts, and, therefore, the figures show a job, a job in which right now, in a new housing, we have one hundred and twenty-one construction. And it's little? Well, it's a little bit, but it's not the four or five you put on the table. But for you to know where you're going, I also tell you where we're working specifically. Forty houses in the Coruña office park, an action that has already begun and in which we are investing five million euros, in particular 4.97 million euros. Sixty-one houses in Vigo, in the streets Chantada and Ignacio Grobas, with an budget of 8.8 million euros. Eleven houses in the city of Ourense, in the streets of Covadonga and Cervantes, with an investment of 1.6 million euros. Six in the Orensan Town Hall of Cenlle, where we are developing a pioneering project of modular housing, endowed with a million euros. Together with Cenlle, we are also working on three modular public promotion dwellings in the sober city hall, and for this action, which is already being auctioned, we have an amount of €5,200,000. And we count, apart from these dwellings that I have just described and the ones that I have placed the location, with another ninety-one housing that we are rehabilitating at this time, which are distributed, Mr. Sánchez, as follows: five in the city of Ourense, where we invest about one million euros; nine in Lugo, with an budget of 1.3 million euros; twelve in the historic town of Betanzos, where we are allocating about three million euros; two in rehabilitation dwellings in the municipality of Mondoñedo, with an investment of four hundred thousand euros; two in the city of Ferrol, specifically in Rue Argüelles 1, which is already auctioned, for 333,529 euros; and three in Pontevedra, located in the street of Monteporreiro, and in which are investing 197.220 euros. And to this it is added that, thanks to the offer of real estate through the Rexurbe program, convened in 2018, we acquired a total of twenty-six real estates, in Ferrol, Betanzos, Lugo and Ourense, of which 50 and eight rehabilitated dwellings are expected to be obtained; the total investment in the acquisition was about 1.7 million euros. So, Mr. Sánchez, right now, without telling us what's coming from behind or talking about futures, we're building 200 new or rehabilitated buildings, with investment by the Galician Union of twenty-two million euros. Mr. Sánchez's argument quite changes to the existing reality and housing policies of the Galician Union. And we don't stop here, Mr. Sánchez, but we keep working, and I can advance that this year 2019 we will make a new purchase offer in the historical helmets of Ferrol, Betanzos and Ourense, and we will extend this call to the historical helmets of Tui, Ribadavia and La Coruña. And to what end? For in order to have houses rehabilitated in these different places, with which on the one hand we take care of the heritage and on the other hand we have very decent dwellings at a price also worthy of and according to the needs of the Greeks and the Greeks. A call that we will make in March, Mr Sánchez, and to which we will allocate 1.5 million euros; and, in any case, if there was a housing offer, we would extend the budget. Besides, we count not only on this, but on the ground at the disposal of companies for the construction of shelter protected at different points in Galicia. Specifically, Mr. Sánchez, let's do this in the Valdecorvos polygon in Pontevedra; in the office, in the Coruña; in the Bertón, in Ferrol; in the Garabolos polygon in Lugo; and in San Paio de Navia, in Vigo. These are realities and these are political achievements of the Galician Union: on the one hand, new housing; on the other hand, rehabilitation; and on the other hand, it is made available to the ground so that companies, cooperatives, can choose to build public promotion housing. And, as you know, we don't stop here. And, therefore, even now and in Parliament we have the Rehabilitation Act, which is another step further to make it easier for those people who have a housing because they can do it with the least possible pitfalls, a law that fits within our commitment to rehabilitation, as a fundamental tool in housing policies and with efficient, sustainable and future solutions. Our objective is that housing rehabilitation is becoming more and more attractive for citizens and the measures taken in this area are becoming more and more efficient. And for this we seek, Mr. Sánchez, the highest consensus, forgetting those theories that you continually try to put into effect, that nothing really has to do with the truth of the Greeks and the Greeks, and much less with the policies of the Environmental Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u399	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u400	Well, if there's anything about which this debate should be qualified for Marmota Day, it's because ten years after the explosion of the real estate bubble more than six families every day are expelled from their dwelling in Galicia, Counsellor. [[Applause]] That's what invariably happened in this country. If you find it a minor problem to come to friflify, there you are, but the data and the realities are that: eight hundred defeats for rent default in the second half of 2018 in Galicia. And you've come to recite again the set of stockings that have been applied and that have not been used as a solution to those eight hundred families, Counselor. You in 2010 had an budget of 162 million euros for housing. Do you know what the housing budget for 2019 is? 83 million. If it used to be 0.37% of Galicia's GDP, today it's 0.13%. So you can recite here what you want, but you're not giving a serious debate, because you know that the structural problem is determined because the price of the rent rises and rises and the wages and working conditions of many people, of a lot of percent of the population of Galicia, do not come up like renters, and therefore the result of this equation is many people on the street, many people who cannot be emancipated, many people who pay more than 50% of their income to pay for housing, a constitutional right — article 47—. And that's what happens, and you come here to figure this out and not give a serious and honest debate. I'm telling you, what are the mechanisms for regulating prices? Because, really, if the renters earn an average of 5.2%, a 30% in some city in Greece, wages don't go up 30%, Counsellor, right? You know that young people don't give mortgages anymore, that you have to resort to rent because banks don't give mortgages, right? Go to the street, go to the street. And in the meantime, you come here with a parallel reality that seeks to figure out what you've done. You have taken high-level policy measures to encourage banks, voyeur funds and large housing owners. Counsellor, why did the People's Party block the local farm law so that VAT could be applied to empty housing? Answer me. Why did you put down the minimum lease period of five to three years? Counselor, you told me. Why have sixty billion euros been paid to rescue the banks and the apartments and houses of Sareb not made available to have a public housing park of social rent, as is done in most European countries? Counsellor, if the construction of public housing is used in European countries to regulate prices and give housing to people with low incomes, what is the invention of the People's Party to, without building public housing, to secure the right of housing for all Greeks and Greeks? Marmot Day, it's a terrible Marmot Day. Ten years after the People's Party's government, ten years after the explosion of the real estate bubble, there's still a daily drama in Galicia. That's Marmot Day, Counselor, it's more than that. You've come to assume that of 200 houses of official protection, 200 houses of official protection, after what? I'm sorry. You said, the five or six houses you said. Are you denying that data? In 2015 didn't six houses of official protection started throughout Galicia, Counsellor? INE data. In 2016 were not four houses started, Counsellor? When you arrived wasn't it true that two thousand nine hundred started? Isn't it true that Galicia is in the queue truck of the autonomous communities that start official protection housing? Isn't it true, Counsellor, that you have passed a Housing Law that allowed the municipalities to reduce the housing reserve for official protection housing, Counsellor? Isn't that true? Isn't it true that you've passed embezzlements to societies, to Sociomies, so that the votre funds would come to invest and not pay taxes to this country, Counsellor? Isn't that true? Answer something, don't come here to make an ad. You say something, we have a serious debate. Have a little respect for the people who are losing their homes, who can't live. What are you laughing at, Counselor? Have some respect. There are eight hundred disqualifications for rent defaults only in the second half of 2018, and you laugh. Why, if the housing concerns so much, do you think, have reduced the housing budgets? Why did your star program, which is the empty housing program, have a 3.2% execution in 2017? Three hundred thousand euros budgeted from the Star Programme to mobilize the housing of this Galician Union were executed 14,900 euros, 3.2%.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u401	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u402	They were able to make people available throughout Galicia sixteen homes, Counselor. Isn't that for you to come and do some self-criticism, Counselor? Are they not able to do something self-criticism, having four daily drawbacks for rent default and two more for mortgage default? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u403	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Closure of the inquiry, Environmental, Territory and Living Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u404	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Antonio, you will never cease to surprise me. But are you able to look us in the face and say that there were eight hundred evictions in 2018 and stay so wide and above make people believe that these are homeless? But are you kidding me one more time? In those defeats, do you know how many were of first residence and how many were of second residence, how many were of ships?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u405	Mr. Sánchez, be quiet. You've already spoken. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u406	Do you know that, Mr. Sánchez?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u407	Silence, Mr. Sánchez! Quiet, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u408	Keep on raising your voice, keep on raising your voice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u409	Mr. Sánchez, I call you by order. I call you in order, Mr. Sanchez! [[Murmurs.]] No, no, quiet. Sorry, sorry, quiet. Mr. Sánchez, you have a call to order. Quiet. You have a call to order, Mr. Sánchez. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Sánchez, I'm going to have to call him back to order. You have a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u410	Mr. Sánchez, I repeat: how is it that you can look at anyone's face and say that it was eight hundred first-life evictions, when you know perfectly that they were... [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u411	Mr. Sánchez, Mr. Sánchez, second call to order, and you know that another call and I have to expel him. No, no, you've already spoken. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I warn you: second call to order. Another call and I have to kick him out, and I don't want to do it; besides, we're finishing the full. Go ahead, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u412	Look, not because you put that face on me or because you raise your eyeball, you think you're going to frighten me, neither here nor anywhere else. [[Applause]] You look at the statistics, and just like you lied, please take it and then do another interpellation, ask for forgiveness, and since you have the statistics, tell you, Mr. Sánchez, you say it. Then, of course, as it's so easy, what you have to do is ask forgiveness, it's to ask forgiveness and not lie, and to say that there are people who are constantly defeated. [[Murmurs.]] First of all, because believe me: next to a person who for the reasons they were left without his house, there's the IGVS, there's the Unity of Galicia, as it couldn't be otherwise. [[Applause]] That said, as for you, it's all a joke, and it's demonstrated today, that this is a joke, after repeating once again the questioning with dots and commas, and decided not to say that we care about a ship, now it's changed and suddenly it's still you're on another line, because it says it's a joke, when I tell you where the investment of twenty-two million euros is made in housing policies, and then it says, it's what you come here to do propaganda. No, look, I'm here to give you information. The difference is that you want to mess up and try to pull out a very different headline instead of focusing on what we should. The most disadvantaged, all respect, but they also had to have respect for you. And not for repeating a lie a thousand times, Mr. Sánchez, it becomes true. [[Murmurs.]] And I'm sure, if you've been so offended, you won't repeat it. In Galicia we are developing policies to facilitate and, within these, we have twelve measures for the most disadvantaged. These measures are four million euros, and we highlight the realisation programme affected by mortgage executions, which guarantee aid, Mr Sánchez, to 100% of the applicants who of course meet the requirements. In the case of rent default, we count on the social lease bonus, which consists of an aid of up to EUR 225 per month for twelve months, and that we have made an amendment so that it can be extended to six years. It is a single aid of 600 euros to be able to cope with late payments or costs of formalizing a new contract. This bonus, Mr Sánchez, has 3.8 million euros. But I'm talking about something already published, something that's already in progress, not something that suddenly comes to my mind. And now we have also increased this bond for women victims of gender-based violence with a help that is equipped with 1.6 million euros plus. Was there before? Indeed, but we've made the necessary flexibility so that not a single woman has to resort to either friends or family, but it can start a new free and independent life. Other data? Well, I'll tell you right now. You bring the House again and again. So, for example, the latest INE figures, published on March 7, make it clear that in 2018 the mortgage executions of housing whose holder is a physical person in Galicia dropped 15%, from 328 in 2017 to 280 last year. Do you want data? I'm giving you data -- but don't get nervous, because I'm going to give it to you when I want it, not when I'm forced by Mr. Anton Sanchez. — the fourth year in which the executions have been lowered, reaching the lowest figure since there have been statistical records. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] And we continue with more data, and in this case INE, Mr. Sánchez, in which the General Council of the Judiciary — it was the publication made at the end of February — reveals that in 2018 there was a very relevant download of the launches in Galicia, both of the executional mortgages and by application of the Urban Rent Law. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u413	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u414	I don't know who you call a liar, whether I -- who seems to be fantastic afternoon -- or if you're calling it the General Council of the Judiciary. As you can see, take it and tell Mr. President where he wants me to report. I don't care if you call me a liar, because you think it's a compliment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u415	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u416	...that you call me a liar. Finally, Mr Sánchez, we have housing policies that have changed to adapt to economic and social reality and access to housing. I gave him new housing data, I gave him rehabilitation data, I gave him program data. I told him we're next to the most disadvantaged and we'll continue on the same line. You try to change, even if it's only the drafting of the interpellation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u417	Thank you, Counselor. We continue now with the seventh point, we continue with questions to the Government. Question by Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Galicia to ensure the priority connection of the Via Ártebra to the A-6 motorway in order to give effective service to the metropolitan area of the Coruña
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u418	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u419	Good afternoon. Counsellor, last Monday, March 4, on the day before the election shadow period, announced in Coruña what qualified as an opron, the prolongation of the Ártebra, with an investment around forty million euros. The Board of Directors, in effect, on 19 February, authorized the bidding of the works to initiate this first phase of prolongation of the avenue with the AP-9 motorway, and in the Council reference it is indicated that this invitation to tender includes a modification of the contract to carry out the second phase of the construction work with the AP-9 as soon as the Ministry of Development authorizes this connection. It closes the reference of the Council indicating that the Ártebra Way is a strategic pathway to the Galician Union defined in the Sectoral Plan of the Coruña Road Network, Artexo, Culleredo, Cambre, Oleiros, Sada and Bergondo, whose objectives are to improve communications in the Coruña area and to articulate a cross-sectional route to facilitate traffic in the city through N-VI, AP-9 and A-6 (sic). But the sectoral plan, Counsellor, adopted in 2004, precisely being Mr Feijóo, head of the Council, was born with the premise of being something more than a road network infrastructure plan. That is why it defines territorial intervention policy determinations that compromise and must compromise the documents that develop the plan. Among these determinations, Madam Counsellor, are particularly the empowerment of trade activity, the greater territorial balance and social cohesion and the liberalization of tariffs. A broad and ambitious view of the road infrastructures of the entire metropolitan environment of the Coruña cannot be confined to the connection of the Via Ártabra to AP-9, increasing the density of entry and exit traffic to the city of Coruña through the avenue of Alfonso Molina, instead of looking for alternatives to this already saturated urban road — as you well know, Counsellor — while a true connection of the municipalities affected by the metropolitan environment, the set of industrial polygons and the set of port facilities, and requires prioritising the connection precisely of the Via Ártabra to the A-6, as was planned in the initial plot of this important infrastructure for the entire metropolitan area of the Coruña. Madam Counsellor, as we told you in our questions, in our initiatives, this connection of the Via Ártobra must be the true circle of the whole region, along with the A-6 itself, the third round, without any new cost of paying. Take the end of the A-6 Ártebra to the A-6 and continue to be, Counselor, a necessity. Leading it only to A-9 is a partial and captive option for the entire metropolitan border, which — yes, according to the latest studies delivered by the Ministry of Development, notes that whoever is going to get benefits is probably going to be Audasa. However, the 2009-2015 MOVE Councillorship Plan, which is still running, eliminated from its economic programming — as you well know — for the Arctic Way the third AP-9-A-6...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u420	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u421	That's why we asked him if there was any forecast of the German Government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u422	Thank you. You know the question. Thank you. Response from the Infrastructure & Mobility Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u423	Thank you, President. Mr. Villoslada, I appreciate the question, because it is true that last 4 March I suppose you will know that to bid on the recruitment platform -- even if it's a day before another -- it's a huge job for a long time; above all, of course, considering that of course it's an obron, it's not a childish play or it's going to be a childish feature. In any case, I give you concrete data to figure out the magnitude of the work we have on sale, and of course we can talk about the connection of A-6. I think it's a great opportunity to talk about the plans and forecasts that we have at Galicia's board on high-performance pathways, which are many, and we've done a lot to connect completely the neighborhoods of Cambre, Oleiros and also Sada, and that that this connection of the Arctic Way to AP-9 also serves for future connections that are also connected in that infrastructure. And we continue to move forward in this action, which, of course, we consider strategic for mobility, despite the obstacles we have encountered, Your Honor. Because to bid—even if it's in a shadow period, which is a huge job— many traps have been found along the way. I think you know perfectly well what I mean. Last Monday, March 4, we bid on the recruitment platform, which is the first phase, up to AC-521 — you know — from N-VI to AC-521, then it comes to AP-9 and then it comes to A-6. This tender also includes a second phase to avoid having to bid again, which is the connection to AP-9, to the highway. And we're moving forward with solutions, giving him time -- look how good we are -- and leaving the Ministry of Development to give us permission to connect with AP-9, which stopped us when you arrived at the Government. Because the easy thing was to wait and wait for the Ministry of Development to give us permission and before biding for an op (of course yes) because they are investments — which you see on 4 March on the recruitment platform — of EUR 40 million of own funds. Therefore, a very important work. But to get to A-6, you have to get to AP-9. And, therefore, it's good to think about connecting to A-6. Allow me to think about the Sesame Bar: N-VI, AP-9, A-6; the AP-9 is closer, the A-6 is further; therefore, to reach the A-6 you have to get to the AP-9 first. So I think it's a basic and simple question that anyone can understand. In any case, we expect you to ask the Ministry of Development to leave that inaction, to give a quick and agile authorization to arrive at AP-9 so that we can continue progressing with the Via Ártebra. Because the truth is that the connection to AP-9 is what gives you the full functionality; then we get to A-6, but first we have to get to AP-9. We don't want to delay the extension and that's why we're moving forward, and we're waiting for permission from the Ministry of Development. And no child: EUR 40 million of own funds, the biggest road work in the last decade practically. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u424	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u425	Yes, thank you for the answer, Counselor. The Ministry since January 22nd has transferred Ineco's study to him and is waiting precisely for the answer. [[Applause]] But, beyond looking for technical excuses, and precisely being a fundamental work for the road vertebration of the entire metropolitan area of the Crown, of forty million euros, we cannot play the Sesame Quarter if it comes to either AP-9 or A-6. Because what I have before me — unless it contradicts or saves me to tell us that the MOVE Plan is modified — is the abolition in the MOVE Plan of the third A-9-A-6 for the Ártebra. [[Mr. Díaz Villoslada displays a document.]] Could I clarify this, please, Counselor? [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] This fundamental work also affects, as you well know, the Council of Chamber in a unique way. And with the Chamber Council they haven't come to a solution, but it may well be that the question ends in the courts. Even the Ministry itself and the Ineco studies are observing how anyone who can be fully benefited will be Audasa, because we are with a new route of toll. What did they negotiate with Audasa since 2010, who removed the third connection to A-6? because they knew that the entire circulation of the Árdabra Way would enter directly into the A-9 and directly into the Coruña by Alfonso Molina. Because it's not going to be that the common mortals continue to enter the Coruña by N-VI instead of by AP-9 to not assume new costs of toll. Counsellor, I think this is a still micropolitan vision of all the objectives that you have ahead of you in the area of the Crown, like other examples that I don't have time to put. I'd ask you a almost rhetorical question that I hope you don't have an answer, because it won't only be about connecting the city to the beaches or a new golf course? Won't that be the question, Counselor? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u426	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Close this question, Madam Infrastructure and Mobility Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u427	Thank you, President. Ineco's report knows him. And by the way, the Ineco report recognizes that the traffic studies, of which they so doubted, that it went out in the press, that they had to do the resuscitation of the resuscitation, to mess up, come to say that the traffic study done by the Galician Union is correct. But, in any case, allow me the letter of March 4, Your Honor. We're looking forward to the Ministry of Development transferring to us a draft convention that makes us conditional. [[The Infrastructure & Mobility Adviser lady displays a document.]] So this is more up-to-date, in real time, Your Honor, this letter. [[Applause]] They've been answering us since March 4th. Ineco's report is earlier, which I know, Your Honor, is part of the file, but this letter too, and we're pending, waiting from March 4 to answer us with an agreement and answer us to this question. And in any case, we're talking about a very important investment, of EUR 40 million, of an AP-9 connection work, a free route, and then of EUR seventy million in the Via Ártebra, in the midst of a economic crisis, Your Honor; therefore an important work. When they arrived, they paralyze that connection with AP-9, messing up with different reports, defending your interests of Audasa, not the Galician Union, and there's the hemerotheque. In any case, the connection to A-6 is planned. But we can't go there flying, we have to get to AP-9 and then to AP-6!, but it's a start I think it's simple. But in any case, you tell me about -- what was it like? -- metropolitan microaree? But if the Ministry of Development is to paralyze the Passage Bridge, paralyze — as we have seen today — Punta Langosteira — railway access — paralyze Alfonso Molina! When does the Ministry bid...? We're talking about a large metropolitan area, which is being micropolitanized by the Ministry of Development. We've just bided a work of 40 million euros with own funds. So, what do you say to me? It seems to bother you that we improve the infrastructure in the metropolitan area. I would expect from you the same coherence with the Ministry of Development. [[Applause]] The Arctic Way, the connection to AP-9 -- you know, too, I suppose it'll be in the Ineco report -- substantially improves National VI, which is saturated. It's therefore a very important work. And — I insist — you should apply the same story. He's in his hands running Alfonso Molina, the railway route to Langosteira and performances that are in the air, that they broke. Forget Galicia. I think, of course, political, yes. I don't see it. We'll keep working. I believe — by your question — that you're implying to me that we don't connect with AP-9. And the truth is, I hope that's what they're taking in the Ineco report. I'm sure you'll recognize the importance of the traffic that will capture the Arctic Way with the AP-9, without forgetting the connection with the A-6. So I'm waiting for the same insistence and the same questions from the Ministry of Development to give us permission with AP-9 and which also extends Alfonso Molina. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u428	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Maria Julia Rodríguez Barreira and six other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the views of the Government of Greece on the Director Plan for the Atlantic freight corridor recently presented by the Ministry of Development
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u429	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. Counsellor, today we are going to ask you for the Atlantic Corridor's Master Plan, which was just presented on February 20th in the Ministry of Development. We asked him about this master plan because we don't trust him. It is a master plan that is being challenged by the German Government, but it is that, in addition, it was drawn up by a socialist government, as a socialist was the government that in the years 2009 and 2010 negotiated the Trans-European Transport Network and the layout of the corridors that left out of the Atlantic corridor all the northwestern Spanish, with the aggravation that it represented, and that it is incomprehensible being Minister of Development Mr. José Blanco. In order to achieve the development of this plan, which happened to draw up a socialist government, there was first an important work of collaboration and coordination between the autonomous communities of Galicia, Castela-León and also Asturias — of course, with the government of Mariano Rajoy — in order to reverse this unjust situation. We must highlight the work of the president of the Union and the presidents of the rest of the autonomous communities mentioned, and also their own, that of their department. And, in this way, what they achieved was an alliance between autonomous communities to claim, not only from the central government but also from European institutions, the inclusion of the northwestern Spanish in the Atlantic corridor. To get the Central Government to do its own thing and accept its proposal, to take it to the European Union and, as they have achieved, to accept it first by the European Commission and then by the Council of Ministers and, subsequently, by the European Parliament, it has been a achievement that has allowed and will enable it to achieve that necessary funding and the inclusion in the Atlantic corridor. We arrived in December 2018, and in recent months we have seen numerous meetings of the president of Galicia with the presidents of Castela-León and Asturias to claim these investments and participation in the elaboration of the master plan. But surprisingly we arrived in February with a master plan that, unlike what has happened so far — a real, effective and coordinated work — is a ghost master plan. Because, as far as we know, they didn't count on their participation, and what we read is that it's a master plan with the absence of essential actions, it's an insufficiently qualified master plan, a master plan about what the Government has stated it will ask for clarifications and make allegations. As we do not trust, Madam Counsellor, we ask what opinion the Government of Greece has, which opinion deserves this master plan that has just presented the Ministry of Development in relation to the Atlantic corridor. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u430	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira. Response from the Infrastructure & Mobility Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u431	From the German Government we have been working for a long time and with great interest in redefining that Atlantic corridor that left out the northwest of Spain, Galicia, Castile-Leon and Asturias. Because we want to create competitiveness and, above all, logistics capacity. We seek alliances with other autonomous communities, with Asturias and Castile-Leon, promoting joint and coordinated actions; three autonomous communities that we have been working on for many years to connect to that European freight network, a joint effort to defend rail transport of reliable, competitive commodities. And we count on the support of all agents, social agents, economic and institutional agents of Galicia, Asturias and Castile-Leon. This institutional alliance had, of course, important milestones: in October 2017, this joint institutional declaration between Galicia, Asturias and Castela-Leon, the three autonomous communities; last January 28th, almost 200 business, trade union and institutional representatives, we met again in Santiago to further boost this demand, this strategic infrastructure. And we programme concrete actions, concrete investments, and the recent meeting of the three presidents — Asturias, Castela-León and Galicia — in Madrid for the defence of this railway corridor, to incorporate the northwest and to make the northwestern Spanish stronger. The offensive gave its fruit. We just learned last week that the European institutions finally accepted this joint demand and included the northwest peninsula in the Atlantic freight corridor, with concrete railway routes from the Bath of Molgas, León, to Xixón, and Vigo and La Coruña, passing through Ourense and Monforte. So it's an express recognition of the work that we've seen driving from all over the northwestern Spanish. We must thank the social and business agents as a whole for their support for this movement, and of course also for President Mariano Rajoy and the Inñigo de la Senra — who acknowledged that mistake and corrected that mistake that left out the northwest of the Atlantic corridor, and that they transferred that demand from us, that joint demand, to the European Community. The main objective we have achieved is that we are already connected to the European network. But we have to keep working. We want it to be translated into real modernization, real investment. It is therefore necessary to press the Ministry of Development with necessary specific projects and documents to allow us to access these European funds and to materialise those European funds. But the fact is that the power point we know of that plan director — because of what we know — has clear absences and significant deficits, and therefore we have to work and demand the Ministry of Development for full planning, clear planning and also complete projects.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u432	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u433	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Counselor, for your answer. You have just pointed out that this power point has absences and deficits. I understand that the planning you have made in the communities has not been taken into account by the Ministry of Development. And to me, like Monfortina, other than we can see in the press, I'm interested in the absence of Monforte's bypass. And, therefore, I want to ask you what these acts are that since the Council and the German Government consider them essential and that they do not contemplate this plan as a director. I would also like, if possible, to clarify to us what is the difference between the investments that contemplate your department as necessary and those that appear in this plan. And I would also like to know whether this Atlantic corridor is being treated in the same way and prioritized in the same way with regard to the Mediterranean corridor. Because, immediately after taking possession and knowing that the Minister for Development would be Mr Abalos, the question arose as to whether, indeed, there would be a priority for the Mediterranean corridor. Then it seems that the demonstrations were on the line that they would be treated equally. But the reality we now see with this master plan is that we are not really meeting all the needs of investments and actions that are needed. And that's why I want to ask you, too, indeed, whether you're dealing in the same way with both corridors or whether you're, on the other hand, facing a new aggravating socialist government to the northwest peninsula, and in detail Galicia, on such an important topic as this one, which will undoubtedly affect the future, the economy and the employment possibilities of our community. Because it's about improving our infrastructure and the competitiveness of Galicia. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u434	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira. Question is closed by the Infrastructure & Mobility Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u435	Indeed, the three autonomous communities, Galicia, Asturias and Castile-Leon, we have a defined strategy of action for the commodity corridor, for the Atlantic corridor in the northwest, which identifies gaps and identifies specific investments and actions; in total, 3,100 million euros that we consider necessary. The planning of this alliance of the three autonomous communities, and of many social and economic agents, little, very little, has to do with that power point that we've had access to over the past few weeks; a power point that, of course, seems to be a short plan, a master plan that does not respond to the aspirations we have in the north-west, and which, of course, looks like a plan for the maintenance of railways, unique and exclusively. So we say "similar", in any case, because that's what we could extract from the presentation of that power point that the Ministry of Development introduced. Today, the truth is, we don't have that master plan, even though we've asked the Ministry for Development for some time now. I don't know if it exists or if it doesn't exist, or if it's a real plan. But the fact is that that power point of that plan director differs greatly from the investments needed to be competitive and to have logistical capacity in the northwest of Spain. It includes, for example, actions that are already carried out, such as the variant of Birds; it obviously is very important investments such as what you were commenting on, the bypass of Monforte, the exit of Vigo, the solution to the port of Manzanal, which also requested the mayor of the Barco de Valdeorras — remember me — there is time; and other actions that are necessary, such as the lack of performance in pending, which would from then limit those 750-metre trains, and forget essential railway connections such as, for example, the railway connection of PLISAN and the exit of Vigo to Portugal beyond the electrification itself. And I also see hedges of certain high positions that say they give the same thing that Vigo and Porto are or are not in the corridor. That's not how it is. That they're not in the corridor implies a lot more difficulty getting funding from Vigo and Porto. That power point, finally, has big eyves. It does not include the implementation of ERTMS, the traffic and safety management system, nor the European wide range, which are requirements of the European Union. But the truth is it's 3,100 million euros what we've identified and 1,286 million euros what the Ministry identifies. And it literally contrasts with the abundance shown with the Mediterranean corridor. I'm only allowed two questions too, because I don't mention what I did in my previous intervention: 1.5 million euros/kilometre is the ratio of the power point of the northwest Atlantic corridor; and the ratio of the Mediterranean corridor is 18 million euros/kilometre.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u436	Thank you, Counselor. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u437	It is a total aggravating of the Mediterranean corridor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u438	Thank you. Question by Mr César Manuel Fernández Gil and eight other Members of the G.P. Galician people, on the master lines that will follow the policy of the Greek Government to continue moving forward in the fields of equality and co-education in Galicia in the coming years
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u439	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Counselor, we're going to talk about co-education, about pioneering initiatives in this German Government. Co-education is education that is shared together with the youth of both sexes. Education is to provide an integral education that allows children and girls, girls and girls, a full education that helps to set up their identity, as well as to build a conception of reality that integrates, in turn, knowledge and its ethical and moral evaluation. Coeducating, therefore, implies educating without differentiating messages depending on sex. Education must be carried out from an integral and gender perspective that helps prevent all kinds of situations of violence, especially gender-based violence. And I want to do here also an incisus talking a little bit about the course of this whole and the language that we use many times, which we publicly launch. Because yesterday some Members referred to "exterminators and annihilators" referring to some Members. I believe that not incitement to violence can also be done with proper use of language. In recent years, there has been an increase in discriminatory conduct and sexist stereotypes among students from educational institutions, which influence the development of their identity and how school violence is manifested, resulting in an increase in conflicts and situations of violence between boys and girls, who are constantly receiving impacts and messages. That is why I insist on the importance of society as a whole, in addition to the school itself and the Education Council, in this case. In order to reverse this trend of what I was talking about earlier, co-education is presented as one of the most useful and powerful tools to end inequality from children and girls. And the school is an excellent and fundamental platform for overcoming sexist prejudices and for achieving a profound change in unwanted social structures and practices, since it is clear that everything that happens in schools and universities is a reflection of what happens in society, in principle as a mirror and then as a reflection back to society again. We see different initiatives. Yesterday, for example, in Teis's IES there are already gestures, and they took and baptized all the classes with women's names on an initiative called "Walk for Equality." We know that the Union works in co-education and we wanted to know today, Counsellor, we wanted to ask you the master lines that will follow the policy of government in this field to continue moving forward in the fields of equality and co-education in Galicia over the next few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u440	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. The expressions you referred to were withdrawn by the Presidency yesterday. Therefore, that record: they will not appear in the Journal of Sessions. Response from the Education, University and Vocational Training Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u441	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Indeed, the whole society must be committed to equality, the whole society must be committed to education and the fight against gender-based violence. The momentum of education on equality is a fundamental aspect; a fundamental aspect of building a society that is more egalitarian and freer from gender-based violence. Education without distinction of gender so that all people are valued for their achievements and have the same opportunities for personal and professional realization is a task for which society as a whole is needed, but we are aware that the education system is a relevant agent in making the role of women visible and relevant to advance their equality with men, since, together with families, it is responsible for the transmission of values to new generations. The Council of Education, University and Vocational Training has contributed our great area and we have a clear commitment to equality and co-education to ensure an educational model based on respect and freedom. We know that education space plays a key role in the personal development of children and children through the acquisition of knowledge, but also of equal values, social values and democratic values. However, we are aware that we are facing a complex issue; a complex issue that needs a truly comprehensive approach. Hence, the close collaboration of the board with other bodies such as the General Secretariat of Equality, with which we have designed the I Plan of Action for Equality in the Education Centres of Galicia 2016-2020. With the horizon of 2020, we are developing a set of cross-cutting measures, specific measures aimed at both students and teachers, with the aim of continuing to advance in the training and promotion of the values of equality, equity and integration from the educational system. We have recently expanded precisely this collaboration through an agreement with the Vice-Presidentship of the Union to, within the framework of the state pact, promote new actions in the educational field to combat gender-based violence. We shall administer with the utmost responsibility, because this deserves, an budget of three million euros; three million euros that will allow specific actions on the development of equal plans and campaigns, the training of teachers in the field of equality and the drive of co-education, among others. And, through all the educational stages, and with special attention to FP, a reinforcement at the level of materials, programs at the schools and teacher training. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u442	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u443	Thank you, Counselor. The truth is, I'm going to refer to Marie Curie and Henri Becquerel, because they can be an example; that we've already talked about, in addition to the 19th century, at the beginning of the 20th century. A man who refused a Nobel Prize if he did not recognize the important work of his wife, Marie Curie, and his merits. It is therefore interesting to review also some autobiographical writings that were later published by their daughters and that two types of men were placed at that time in society; and that of their husband was the one that was scarce. He was textually saying, "In 1906... the loss of what was my great companion, my best friend, triggered a vital crisis. (...) However, I should not forget what he used to say: that even without him I should continue my work." He then said in another writing: "My candidacy" — in 1911 at the Paris Academy of Sciences — " triggered a great public interest, for it sparked the debate on women's admission to the Academy. Many (...) opposed their contempt for my scientific contributions." I think in his notes he talks of two types, of two attitudes of men, and I believe that with education, and with education, too -- I insist -- in all society, in addition to school and families, we can try to bridge these differences between men and women and also educate children on equal terms, our children and our daughters so that in the future they can act as Marie Curie's husband did in this case. We are very interested in this issue because we believe that in school it is where children really live and have to have full equality, and therefore we would like to know — and finally — what we are doing, what we are doing, what we pretended to be the Government, what the method and the system is, what they are implementing for the development of this co-education, what we are absolutely defending from this People's Parliamentary Group and even from the Council of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u444	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Close the question, advisor of Education, University and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u445	Thank you very much, President. Indeed, Mrs. Egerique, a weight full of stories of women rejected, masked women and invisible women that we want to avoid from all society and from the functions of the Government. The Education Council, in order to continue to move forward in equality and in the fight against gender-based violence, we will be fincapé in the education system from three very specific areas: First of all: development of specific teaching material from the perspective of gender, creation of working groups for the development of these new materials, revision of existing materials to improve the perspective of gender, development of educational publications for teachers, identification and dissemination of good practices and reference materials, and development of a basic guide to early detection of gender violence that serves as a prevention tool between students and provides guidelines for teachers. Secondly, the training of teachers and the training of trainers, training actions on teaching materials that I mentioned earlier and progressively expanded the training offer through the Teacher Training Plan — specifically, this Saturday, March 9, the day after, I myself attended the inauguration of a teacher training course entitled "Equality and challenges" in the Teacher Training Plan of the Counsellor—, a gender perspective in the initial training course of the new teaching staff and special fincapé in the training of trainers. And third: to involve families, basic educational agents for society, through the impulse of schools of parents and the involvement of families in education programs. And, of course, all these measures will be channelled through the educational centers of Galicia and are directed at each and every of the educational stages. I would like to mention two examples: in the school library there will be a specific resource allocation, and in the field of vocational training there will be a specific joint working group for the 20 integrated vocational training centres in Galicia. And the results coming out of this working group will serve as a code of good practice for the rest of the centers. What we're talking about, above all, is working on vocational and egalitarian orientation, without gender cracks, without masculinization in a field where there are very masculinized professions even or very feminized. The goal is to break with this gap, especially when there are sectors traditionally reserved for men. We can all agree that education is a fundamental factor for equality, but education has to be a shared responsibility for centres, the media, political representatives, businesses and families. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u446	Thank you, Counselor. Question from Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and two other MPs from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the opinion of the Junta of Galicia regarding the health care that is being provided in the district of Pontevedra
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u447	Question by Mrs. Patricia Vilán of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u448	Thank you, President. I can't resist making a comment on this previous question: you defend co-education and coexistence, but you also defend those centers that separate children, which is impossible to live with. I really can't... at any rate, they'll live and educate, but "co-" never, none with any; or, at least, none with any. [[Applause]] And you, by the way, 8M didn't appear to any of the demonstrations that happened, so it's very good of mouth but nothing else. [[Balbordo.]] I'm going to the point, president. First of all, I want to greet the mayor of Ponte Caldelas and the municipal representative of the Town Hall of Forcarei, neighbours and neighbours of these two municipalities that are part of Pontevedra district and who today come to address the question about the health situation of their region. The truth is, you, Counselor, all of you in the Government and the People's Party are celebrating those future ten years of the People's Party's Government. Almost ten years ago, he also announced in Pontevedra his precedent in the position — he was a health adviser — including a model, a hospital for Pontevedra, which was the private mirror of Álvaro Cunqueiro de Vigo. You were going to put it in Monte Carrasco, but then they dropped that idea, changed it from municipal candidate in Pontevedra and, in the face of social pressure, decided not to do so. And Mr. Feijóo, about four years ago, announced, this time, with a virtual model, the Great Montecelo. Those nearly ten years have passed... [[Mr. President knocks a bell.]] President, besides the problem, it's the time they're taking me away, because I'm not bothering anyone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u449	Go to the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u450	I continue, and I hope the Mr. President will give me a little more time to finish my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u451	But ask now, go to the question. I'll give you the time later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u452	What if I ask you is, please, if you're not interested, get out of the Chamber; it's as easy as that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u453	That's right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u454	The district of Pontevedra, almost ten years later, is on that black list: healthcare professionals working at the top, older people with mobility difficulties who have to move to other health centres with small pensions and infrastructure deficits...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u455	Please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u456	...and staff at all health centres. And I'll dig one by one. There are two health centers in I'm going to fork; all of a sudden, there were four doctors and now there are only three, one was removed in the center of Soutelo and never knew again. Yes, his counseling said it was a suppression to make a more proactive model. I hope you explain, Counselor. They also cut out in pediatrics, and we have to share pediatricians with other municipalities. We are also calmer because you have answered — your advice — that patients are drawn to about ten kilometers; in fact, that is not a problem for the inhabitants of the Forcarei municipality. There are two centers in Soutomaior, in Arcade and in Romeriz; there are three family doctors, and the one in Romeriz doesn't go all the time. There's a pediatrician who's not always, it's never the weekends, and also the kids have to move ten kilometers away, the Vilaboa. At Ponte Caldelas there is a health center, which really needs more maintenance, with three doctors and one pediatrician who attends more than one hundred and seventy people a day. There are three health centres in Sardinia: Tenorium, Carballedo and Sardinia, where there is also a CAP. One family doctor and one pediatrician in Tenorio, who serves four days a week. On Carballedo, zero pediatricians, with the obligation, again, to move, more or less, again to ten kilometers. There are two in Poio, in Combarro and Anaphans. About Anaphans it's better not to talk about how your infrastructure is; you promised a new one, and right now you won't. The Pediatrics Service is not covered in May...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u457	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u458	...sometimes, and doctors don't rest. Then I'll talk about...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u459	Your time is up. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Thank you. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u460	I welcome the new health spokesperson, who we didn't agree with. [[Murmurs.]] Look: the activity figures, waiting lists, infrastructures and staffing of the public health system in Pontevedra strongly deny their claim about public health care in Pontevedra and Salnés. In the health area of Pontevedra and Salnes, the average waiting time for surgery is 39.8 days. With regard to first external consultations, the average waiting time is 37.2. [[Murmurs.]] In this last section of 2018, in the administration of Pontevedra and O Salnes, about four million assistance actions were committed at the primary care centres and hospitals. In the area of consultations, 2,854,000, both in primary and in hospital. [[Interruptions.]] Twenty-four thousand five hundred interventions were performed in the surgical area. [[Murmurs.]] Twenty-nine thousand nine hundred patients entered the hospital area. Three hundred and thirty-three thousand emergencies were dealt with between the CAP and hospital emergencies. In infrastructures, the Parda and Marín health centers have been opened, and we have pendants for Caldas de Reis and Poio, precisely because of the lack of land by the municipalities that today do not have. By the way, in Anafáns we have a signed agreement, but it turns out that the municipal technician says we can't do the enlargement; so we ask for a new parcel to make a new health center. We've also asked the Soutomajor Lands Council to expand the centre, and I think it's currently changing the general plan. Besides, we have the Grand Montecelo special plan; of course, it is already a reality in the center that we will soon be able to see throughout Pontevedra's health area. Over the past three years there has been an increase in professionals, currently working in the health area of Pontevedra 3,586 professionals. To say that there's a loss of the assistance capacity of the public system in Pontevedra with this data, spokesperson, is an exercise of demagoxia, totally. As far as the Town Hall of Forcarei was concerned, I counted before June 2017 on the health resources you said. There was a retirement and we have to do, logically, an average of healthcare card attendances, and it turns out that in the current situation, right now, there's an average score left in Forcarei of ten TIS patients per doctor, well below 1,274, which is the average of Sergas. So we have to make the system sustainable, because we have a difficulty, sometimes important, not only here, but throughout Spain, by professionals. In Soutomaier's council, we have to say, as you also said, that we have an important distribution of cards, but on average, totally, of the Greek health system.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u461	Thank you, Counselor, you've finished your time, you've got another round after. Replica, Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u462	Thank you, President. You welcome me as a health spokesperson, who are not — this is my county — but perhaps I have to welcome the new advisor the next time I have to intervene, after you leave, counsellor. [[Applause]] Counselor, Caldas and Marín are not Pontevedra districts for the purposes of this question, so... No, I'm not. [[Murmurs.]] I ask you about the municipalities I just told you, and you tell me about the hospital in Pontevedra; you don't talk to me about primary care, which is what I'm asking you. Counsellor, in Pontevedra — City — there are two health centres. In one of them, in the Virgin of Peregrine, he dropped the roof of the third floor just a month ago and there's a single elevator to go up and down three floors; and it's a provincial capital. Do you think you can also pretend about how the health centers in Pontevedra are? Have you ever been to the ER in Montecelo? There are four boxes. He goes up a Monday after a Sunday or a day after a holiday and he'll see how the patients are lying by the corridors and sitting where they can because they don't take the four boxes. It's true, it's so true that many of the people we're here sometimes have to go up to the E.R.; I, for example, and I can tell you that I lived it in the first person. [[Murmurs.]] Emergency nurses themselves complain about the saturation of the hospital. You don't know. I'd like you to tell me why there are recent official studies that say the average in Galicia is a doctor, 0.96 to be exact, for every thousand inhabitants, and I'll Forcarei, Ponte Caldelas and Soutomaior are below. I will not even force the 0.87 doctors for every thousand inhabitants, i.e. less than the average of Galicia. The only thing that's on top is Sardinian Cotobad, curiously...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u463	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan, your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u464	... governed by a gentleman who...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u465	Thank you. No, your time is up. That's it. [[Applause]] Closing round of this question, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u466	The mayor of Forcarei thinks he's from the People's Party too, right? I think so. [[One honourable Member: For now, yes.]] Look, the truth is it's hard to answer such a varied question, because it tells me about Montecelo's emergencies; I tell you: Montecelo's emergencies are within the Gran Montelo project, where we're going to develop in very little time one of Spain's best hospitals. So we're going to do it around. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] The coverage of doctors by population is done with a card, you speak of the number of cards you have, and I have to say that — as I said before — Galicia is the sixth autonomous community with fewer health cards per citizen, and in the area you describe it is exactly like this, it's below, it's about the thousand patients; therefore, we're far below. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Paediatrics: the problem is not only that there are few pediatricians, but that unfortunately there are few children inside; we are looking at coupons of two hundred or three hundred children, and we are going to do it; we are not going to amortize any square, no square! It is simply because at this moment, at the level of the whole Spanish territory, there are such difficulties. But — as I say — Galicia has the project and continues with the clear role of having pediatricians in primary care, the difference in other communities governed by the Socialist Party, where it is not so and most of the coverage takes place with family doctors, who are also formed — I am a family doctor — and perfectly can do so. [[Murmurs.]] I also want to tell you that in Forcarei it is true that one of the innovative projects that, with European funds, we are doing in the council, which is called Telea — teleassisción — with technological equipment. I will forge it, in particular, where we started it in the province of Pontevedra, and it already has a lot of patients controlled at a distance by their doctor and nurse. So we have to change the work system, the primary care system, because we're changing, with an older population, and often isolated. So — as I say to you — this is something that the Council of Health in Galicia is doing and which is being pursued by the European Economic Community, because they will also come to these situations. And I have to tell you that in Montecelo we are going to meet the deadlines -- I spoke before Montecelo, emergency and so on. As I say, we're doing a project that's very interesting, because for the first time, we not only give an answer to what professionals are asking us for, but also the citizens of the Pontevedra area. And, in particular, on 18 March — within a few days — the public information period will be completed and the drafters of the final document of the sectoral plan, of supra-municipal impact, will begin. With which, we are confirming that we have fulfilled the deadlines of this promise, that it is already a reality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u467	Thank you, Counselor. Your time is up. Thank you. [[Mr. Egerique Mosquera asks for the floor.]] Mrs. Egerique, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u468	I wanted the word based on Article 76 for inaccuracies in Mrs Vilan's words.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u469	What exactly is the inaccuracy, please?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u470	He said that no one in the PP was in the 8M rally or demonstrations, and I have to tell him that Members and Members of this group, concelers and concelers of the People's Party, mayors and mayors and representatives of the German Government were supporting real equality between men and women in demonstrations.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u471	Thank you. Corrected stays.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u472	So bad feminism about lying, Mrs. Vilan; bad about lying.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u473	That question is clarified. Question by Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the evaluation of the Greek Government of pediatric care in Zas Town Hall
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u474	Question by Mrs. Montserrat Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u475	Good afternoon. First of all, I want to greet the people of the coordinator Zas without cuts in pediatrics and the mayor, who accompany us from the rostrum; mothers and parents who had to organize themselves to claim something as basic and as precise as quality health care for their children and children, to claim a quality service and that living in a rural council is not a penalty. Zas is a rural municipality, about one hundred and fifty square kilometers, with population dispersion and a census of around 300 children and children. Until June 2018 Zas children and children had pediatric care at eight to three o'clock in the afternoon, thirty-five hours a week of attention. From that date on, Sergas made the decision to reduce the consultation schedule and spend only fifteen hours a week — twelve to fifteen hours — distributed in two days between the Baio Health Centre and Zas. Out of that schedule, you have to go to Vimianzo, the Camarines or the hospital, and to this you have to add the non-replacement of the pediatrician in your absences. This cut of more than 50 percent of the time has very serious consequences. The first, in quality: the attention that children receive is reduced in the revisions of children under two years of age when they do not have the necessary time to follow the established schedule, and they become treated, in the absence of the pediatrician, by professionals who are not pediatricians. Children are not adults in small children; they have specific needs, they have specific illnesses, and they need to be cared for by their own specialists, by pediatricians. And then they have to travel miles to be cared for. [[Applause]] The second question is the problems of conciliation and the increase in expenditure: a much lower schedule for consultations makes it much harder to combine working and transport schedules. By not now matching the consultation schedule with the school bus schedule, which mainly took advantage of grandmothers and grandparents to accompany their children — because that is the fundamental conciliation resource that exists in Galicia — to go to the consultation now they have to do it in a taxi. Or let's not talk about when the displacements are already Vimianzo or Camarinas, when it's mandatory to do so in that resource, with which the cost is multifolded. Health is a fundamental right, and for this health to be provided in conditions they need to be professional in sufficient numbers. Health care without sufficient professionals is not provided in good quality, Counsellor. There are the coordinator's representatives, and there's the mayor, and what they want to know is if he's going to meet his demands, if he's going to re-appropriate them the thirty-five hours of consultation that they've been lending and if he thinks that, with these shortcomings that are currently in Zas, the children and the girls...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u476	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Your time is up. [[Applause]] Thank you. Your time is up. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u477	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In Galicia we believe and bet on the model of pediatric care specialized in health centres, the difference in many countries of the European Union, which do not believe in it. We are one of the communities with the highest rate of pediatric coverage, reaching seventy percent of the primary care paediatrics covered by specialists; by the way, the remaining ten family doctors, who are specialists and have, within their training, the attention of the child as well. In other communities like Balearics, for example, only 50% are pediatricians, the rest are family doctors; in Castela-A Mancha, fifty-eight percent; in Madrid, Extremadura, Valencian Community, Murcia, Andalusia and Canary Islands around seventy percent. As for the ratios of children per pediatrician, according to the Ministry's report published in 2017, in Galicia we have nine hundred and one child cared for by pediatrician, when the average of the National Health System is around one thousand eighteen children. Communities like Madrid, for example, are above, with a thousand one hundred sixty-two, or Extremadura, with a thousand forty-three. So we have an acceptable figure. Since the Galician Health Service, we have taken measures to help alleviate the shortage of professionals, because it is true: this is a problem that we have, at the national level, all autonomous communities, and we are trying to take action. Galicia, of course, has taken three years to take measures to solve it: the extension of retirement age, for example; the professional career, which has made doctors, pediatricians and ODA who were not in full time to do so; the open and permanent competition; the provision of nursing squares and pediatric specialists — we are also a pioneering autonomous community: the first one that creates this specialty of pediatrics in nursing and that creates already structural squares — and also the new continuity contract, which will offer the possibility of much more stability to others. It is true that we have an asset here, which is that the ministry has not just increased the accreditation of more pediatricians. At this point we formed twenty every year and we want to form twenty-six, but the ministry, up to this moment, has not granted it to us. The lack of available pediatricians to be hired requires that we make important efforts to maintain the staff picture of our centres continuously, so we perform actions to suit and reordinate this pediatric care, both functional and hourly, in order to ensure pediatric care in our primary care services. On the basis of this, the decisions taken are assessed in the interests of the quality of care, taking into account the health demands of our users. In particular, not Zas council, which currently has three hundred and eighty-eight children of pediatric age — it was, by the way, six hundred children in 2000; in eighteen years there was a decrease of forty-seven percent — the care offer and the demand was studied: the average of consultations of Pediatrics per day in 2018 was eight in Zas and eleven in Baio. Besides taking into account the pediatricians we count on and the difficulty to be hired, we have an increasing difficulty...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u478	Counselor, your time is up. Thank you. [[Mr. Vázquez Almuínña pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Thank you. He's got another round later. Time's up, thank you. Replica, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u479	Well, as usual in you, Counselor, come with your book and don't give specific answers to the mothers and parents who are in the rostrum. Children will be reduced to Zas, and it is, of course, that with the services they provide, it is a miracle that children will continue to be left, because without services... this was the legislation of rural areas, according to the People's Party, but without services in rural areas there are no children left in rural areas and there is no population in rural areas. Mothers and parents have arranged to claim quality pediatrics for their children, but also to ensure that services are not lost in the rest of the Costa da Morte region. Because, look: Camarinas, Coristanco, Dumbria, Malpica, Muxía, Val do Dubra, Mazaricos, Cee and Zas; it's not a relationship of municipalities to make a tourist route along the Coast of Death, these are places where children and children do not have a quality pediatric care, they are municipalities where pediatricians are missing. And, in the face of the claims they make, parents and mothers find themselves unattended, they feel deceived by the People's Party and the Galician Union. You promised them, without going further, a protocol to know how to act in front of an emergency outside the consultation schedule, and today they're still waiting for him. One of the questions I'd like you to ask is, why don't you send them the protocol in writing? What do you have to do out of appointment time when there's no pediatrician? Why don't you tell them that's what they have to do? They also report that they received an unworthy treatment on February 21st during a visit by the president of Junta to Zas: they were kept in the Town Hall square, they were not allowed to travel if they were not escorted and were then photographed by the president's escort, as if they were criminals, when they just wanted to move the problem. I also ask you if you think you're keeping them, listening to them, and photographing them if you give them an answer to the problems of pediatrics in Zas. What they demand is solutions, Counselor. The problem that there is no pediatrician in Zas is a consequence of the policies of the People's Party, who didn't want to do anything, even though they were warned...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u480	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Thank you. Your time is up. [[Applause]] Thank you. Your time is up. He doesn't listen anymore. Thank you. Close this question, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u481	In the second part of the question Mrs Prado clearly already goes through the electoral field, talking about the People's Party instead of talking about the Government, which is what management is doing. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Of course, I take advantage to greet the mayor and the group of mothers, who are being promptly informed by the branch of area of the possibilities we have at every moment. It's true that there's difficulty in doing it, but we're not going to amortize any square; the square has it there and we're continually looking for solutions. In fact, at this time — since October 9, 2018 — pediatric care is carried out in the morning — twelve to fifteen hours — by a pediatrician at the Materno-Child Hospital, who goes on a part of the morning to work at Zas City Hall — in Zas and Baio's office — several days — as was said here — and then also has a day at the hospital itself. Of course, we have to thank this professional for the displacement and involvement in order to achieve it. Because we have difficulties — as I said — recruitment due to the lack of pediatricians. On the other hand, it must be pointed out that the children's population of Zas municipality can go even to the Pediatrics consultation of either of the two health centres, thus providing pediatricians every day of the week, and attention to spontaneous demand and to the emergencies that may arise outside that time will be provided by the family doctor. That's the protocol we used not only in this case, but in all cases. In fact, in the CAP — at the points of continuous attention — which cover many hours, there is no pediatric coverage, but through the family doctors. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And besides, we have the reference pediatric service in Vimianzo. As I said, each primary care service consists of one or more primary care units with different services: obstetric psychoprophylaxis, oral health, Social Care and Pediatrics. In this case, the primary care service of this region — Vimianzo, Camarinas and Zas — has three pediatricians, one in each of these municipalities. As a general rule, absences in Pediatrics are organized in the whole of the primary care service and are not authorized more than one scheduled absence in order to cover any urgency of one of these pediatricians. As I said before, all pediatrics are consolidated and we intend to cover them. We continue to seek solutions, always according to the Galaga Society of Pediatrics, and, in a coordinated way, we say: as a solution, annual OPEs. As we said, we want to continue implementing and giving stability, offering very good squares to pediatricians so they can be with us. And we're going to do the next exercise of this public job offer accumulating 2018 and 2019, with ninety-three primary pediatrics squares, the highest we've ever had in our community.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u482	Thank you, Counselor. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u483	We asked for more permission...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-13-DSPG106.u484	Thank you. Time's up. Thank you. Well, it ends here a full that could well be comparable to a clean game: there weren't many cards, it wasn't. I'm almost going with Undiano Mallenco syndrome. [[Balbordo.]] I don't know if they know who Undiano Mallenco is. I don't want to be a card referee, but for that they have to collaborate a little too. Because if we don't, like that, we won't end up as you finished in your Ana Pastor speech, it won't be worth it. Then I ask them to reflect on it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Think about it, because we're still starting, we're not getting to the electoral campaign yet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm going to make an effort, you too, huh? [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Good night.
