ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u1	Good morning. Let's start the plenary meeting. First of all, I apologize for this delay. It was a consequence, as almost all of you well know, of the holding of a meeting of the Speakers' Board. So we start this plenary meeting with the first point, legislative texts. [[Mr. Villares Naveira asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Villares, what do you want the word for? Give a voice to Mr. Villares' chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u2	Good morning, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The parliamentary groups of the Galego Nationalist Bloc and En Marea called for a change in the agenda to include in this agenda the debate on the possible cessation of the people's valet, as a result of the Supreme Court's firm condemnation of the litigation-administrative jurisdiction for abuse of power in the exercise of its office. That is why we want to be allowed to explain here the reasons that led us to ask for this inclusion on the agenda and to vote accordingly.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u3	Thank you, Mr. Villares. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo asks for the floor.]] What do you want the word for, Mrs. Pontón?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u4	Article 73 allows the groups to propose changes on the agenda of the plenary, and we today want to record officially here too, in the minutes of Parliament of Galicia and before the whole of the citizenship of Galicia, our disagreement with the decision adopted by the Bureau of Parliament, which wants to prevent us from starting today the procedure for voting for the closure of the people after being condemned by a firm judgment, in a very clear case of arbitrariness, nepotism, in an administration such as Valdoria, which we understand, Mr President, which is seriously damaged by behaviors that are outside the law. We believe that this plenary should rectify this decision, because there is a possibility of giving audiences to the interested person before this plenary is completed, deciding that the full plenary will continue next Monday, and therefore we can start this procedure today, because we understand that formally what should be the priority is not being properly met, which is the will to have a political debate, especially when we see how an institution is being called into question for a conviction that we understand is very serious. We therefore formally propose that text 48836, which we register the En Marea and the BNG Group, should be subject to consideration in this plenary and that it may be included in the agenda, because if all groups agree, so the regulation says, even if it does not comply with the procedures, it could be done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u5	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u6	And what we're asking is that we don't continue to harm the institution and that over and above the partisan interests is Galicia's interest.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón, thank you. [[Mr Prado del Río asks for a word.]] Yes, Mrs. Prado? Give a voice to Mrs. Prado's chair. [[Mr. Fernández Leiceaga asks for the floor.]] I'm sorry. Yes, Mr. Leicega? If you ask for the word, I haven't seen you ask for the word. [[Mr. Fernández Leiceaga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Give Mr. Leicega a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u8	I say that if there is a debate on this matter, we want to set our position.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u9	I didn't open it. I didn't open the debate. [[Murmurs.]] They made a petition, to whom they have the right, to change the order of the day, and nothing else. Now, Mrs. Prado, you have the floor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Pontón, I would like to make an allusion to which all groups agree.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u10	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I have the right to point. If you say the Socialist Party, I don't know whether you want to pronounce or not, I don't know.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u11	Mr. Leicega. Give a voice to Mr. Leicega's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u12	If this is about fixing our position, we want this to be discussed as soon as possible in the plenary session of this House, once the regulatory procedures have been carried out. If it is possible to do so today, or tomorrow, throughout this whole, whenever it is, and if not, as we have already said at the Speaker's Board, we call for an extraordinary full, with the utmost urgency, in order to be able to debate this matter, once the regulatory proceedings have been carried out.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u13	Thank you, Mr. Leicega. Mrs. Prado. Give a voice to Mrs. Prado's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, we're not talking about regulatory procedures, we're talking about legal procedures, right? In order not to be out of the law, precisely, as the previous groups have talked about, we agree with the House's Juridical Services with which we speak at the Speaker's Board; that is, the request today made by the groups of En Marea and the Nationalist Block Galego - and which confirms Mr. Leicega - indeed cannot be done, because, as the House's Juridical Services have said, the request they make is out of the law. We believe that a judgement by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, which does not confirm the Supreme Court, but rather that the Supreme Court does not accept an appeal for marriage, and therefore I demand rigour when these matters are discussed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u15	Quiet, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u16	The Supreme Court has not entered the bottom of the case; therefore, it does not confirm any judgement; it simply says it has no domestic interest. That said, we don't want to break the law. We believe that, in the presence of an institution that defends the interests and rights of the Greeks and the Greeks, we must be strictly strict...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u17	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u18	...with the guarantees and the legal security that deserve all matters, and this in particular, and we, Mr. President, are unwilling to make politics and praise an institution like the People's Valor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, no, that's it. No, no, Mr. Villares, I'm sorry, you don't have the floor. Mr. Villares, you don't have the floor, you don't have the floor, because this isn't a debate, the debate is over. No, no, that's not it. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry, Mr. Villares, I'm sorry, you have no word. Mr. Villares, you have no word! [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, they won't give him a voice. No one's listening. Mr. Villares, don't put me on the weaver of having to call him in order. You don't have a word, you don't have a word. You've already spoken at the Speaker's Board and now you don't have the floor. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Villares, I call you by order! Mr. Villares, I call you in order for the first time. Mr. Villares, don't cause a situation... I call you in order for a second time and I warn you, if I call you back in order for a third time, I have to kick him out, which I don't want. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] So it's over. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, sorry, let's see, I haven't spoken yet, I'll still talk. Of course, it's normal for me to say something, because if I don't... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In any case, I have taken as a reference — you all know me, I think this has no doubt — what the Juridical Services always give me, and the Judiciary Services tell me that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Article 73.3, you cannot include matters on the agenda without having complied with the regulatory procedures. And in this case we're not doing a regulatory procedure, as well as it was stated at the Speaker's Board, and I think this matter is already so clear. We mustn't turn him around. Thank you very much. We're still on the agenda. We started -- we didn't continue -- with the agenda, with the legislative texts. Ditame debate and vote, issued by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the draft law on rehabilitation and urban regeneration and renewal of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u20	The amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and those of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea are maintained. For the presentation of the commission's dictatorship, the Vice-President of Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, Ms Marta Nóvoa Iglesias. Sorry, before -- I don't know if I saluted, I didn't salute -- I'm going to say hello to the students -- to see if I'm here well, because today as it was... - from downtown The Tilos. Are they? Aren't they? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What are they? What are the students? Excuse me? I'm sorry, it's just that in the list you have me here first was another center. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So we greet the 4th ESO students from Santa Comba's Centre of Xallas; they're students from 4th ESO, as I said. Welcome to Parliament, to them and to their teachers. Thank you for being here. And now yes, whenever you like, Mrs. Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u21	Thank you, President. The draft law on rehabilitation and urban regeneration and renewal of Galicia was entered into the Register of Parliament on 21 January 2019 and its admission to the procedure was carried out by the Bureau of Parliament at the meeting on 22 January, opening the deadline for the submission of amendments, which ended on 9 and 27 February for amendments to the whole and the articulated respectively. In particular, the amendment to the full refund submitted by the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea was rejected at the plenary meeting on 28 February. For its part, the amendments to the articulation presented and admitted to the procedure were a total of 318:37 of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, 166 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, 102 of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea and 13 of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia. Commission 2nd, Territorial Planning, Public Works, Environment and Services, at its meeting on 6 March, appointed the presentation to prepare the report, which was formed on the same date. And at the following five meetings the rapporteur and the keynote speakers were: Mr Jaime Castineira Broz, of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group; Mr Antón Sánchez García, of the En Marea Group; Ms María Luisa Pierres López, of the Galician Socialist Group; and Mr Xosé Luís Bará Torres, of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. The report was prepared with the final recommendations, which were issued on 20 March. It should also be noted that, at the meeting on 14 March, following the examination of the writings of the parliamentary groups of En Marea, the Socialists of Galicia and the Nationalist Block Galego, for which they request the hearing process with the appearances that relate to the writing, according to Rule 115.3 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the appearance of Fr.Heriberto García Porto, director of the Galego Institute of Vivenda e Solo, which took place at the beginning of the last meeting on 20 March, was agreed. Subsequently, Commission 2nd, Territorial Planning, Public Works, Environment and Services, at its meeting on 29 March, approved the dictatorship which I am presenting with 7 votes in favour, 2 against and 3 abstentions, in accordance with the recommendations of the report of the motion, with the addition of two transactions, incorporating the text of the draft law, in addition to the technical amendments proposed by the motion, 76 amendments, 26 of them dealt with: 13 of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, 16 of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, 35 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and 12 of the Group of the Galego Nationalist Block. This draft law on rehabilitation and urban regeneration and renewal in Galicia consists, in addition to the explanatory statement, of one hundred twenty-one articles, grouped into four headings, relating to general provisions, actions on the rural environment, areas of intervention in urban areas declared by the Autonomic Administration, administrative coordination and financing, as well as its final part, which consists of five additional provisions, four transitional provisions, a single derogation provision and six final provisions. It is therefore necessary to complete the processing of this legislative procedure with the approval, if any, of the draft law on rehabilitation and urban regeneration and renewal of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. We therefore join the parliamentary groups in order to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, to defend the amendments. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u23	Good morning. We are here to debate the Rehabilitation and Regeneration Act, and what we miss about the BNG is democratic regeneration, because we want free, control and manipulation-free Greek public media, free of repression to journalists who exercise their rights and freedoms and who are reprisaled to denounce the partisan use of television and public radio by the People's Party. [[Applause]] And, speaking of regeneration, we also miss the ethical regeneration of an institution, the People's Valley, which has become the valet of the powerful and the interests of the People's Party. As we have seen today, a person protected by the People's Party when there is a sentence that condemns her nothing but power deviation. [[Applause]] You are creating — and this speaks of your idea of democratic regeneration — a serious damage to an institution that is absolutely discredited. [[Murmurs.]] And also speaking of regeneration, we miss the ethical, political and democratic regeneration of a state to which septic pits explode everywhere. The cloacas, the sewers, the judre that comes out of the Ministry of the Interior, corruption, repression, the use of the state apparatus to serve partisan purposes and the interests of the large companies of the Ibex. Do you have anything to say to the Members of the People's Party? [[Murmurs.]] Yeah, yeah, we'll talk later. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, we are in the debate of Galicia's Rehabilitation and Regeneration and Urban Renewal Act — a resounding name — of a law to which we are not going to support — as we have announced — from the BNG, first of all, for fundamental reasons. Because, of course, what the debate on this law demonstrates is that we have absolutely different urban models, models of development and also contrasting social models. BNG's, of course, is clear where we have government responsibilities, where there are municipal governments of BNG. And, in view of these models, this law is a patch that doesn't go to the bottom of the problem, which is nothing more and nothing less than the degradation and deterioration of urban centers and historic centers by housing policies, policies around trade that have been doing over the last decades, neoliberal policies led by the People's Party, which, for example, are leading to the desertification of urban centers by the expulsion of the population or by the expulsion of commercial activities and by the promotion of large commercial centers in the periphery, which is to create major impacts on the territory and in the middle and serious consequences of mobility as well. And then you tell us about the fight against climate change and sustainability, when they are now, for example, in the Vigo area by betting on these large commercial areas that liquidate traditional trade, which also liquidate activity and life in urban centers. And there are serious problems of social cohesion and integration in these urban centres that don't solve this law. Nor does it solve a very serious problem that the country has in depopulation of rural areas, with the loss of basic services, with the dismantling of traditional economic sectors and also with the proliferation of extractive activities that you are promoting and enhancing with different policy changes, for example, that have to do with the forest sector, energy or mining. And problems as serious and as big as these don't solve with this law, they don't even solve with a law, especially if it's a rule where the economic approach to social, private interest in the public and business about people's needs prevails. And in this law, what is missing, first of all, is a good analysis, a good diagnosis, and an integral strategy, and there is a lack of a territorial and urban model that goes beyond the laws of the market, which is set by a more equitable and more democratic society. And to make equitable democratic policies, of course, we don't have to rule the same for everyone; it's not about ruling the same for all people; it's about ruling for the majority; it's about benefiting the majority and harming the privileged minorities. And you're doing the opposite. What the People's Party does, the policies of the People's Party — and also this law — is to benefit the bank and the powerful. And we also do not support this law on formal and procedural issues, which also seem very relevant to us, especially in the parliamentary process, and which point out again that the People's Party has a genuine allergy to democracy, debate and participation, with the veto they have made to the hearing procedure provided for in Article 115.3 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which provides that "The report's paper may establish a high-level hearing procedure for the Galician Union, expert persons and representatives of social groups." The three opposition groups called for the hearing of six entities and institutions, and you've banned them all less, curiously, from the Director of the IGVS, i.e. the Government representative in the drafting of the law. They vetoed, silenced and numbed other collectives and entities representative of various sectors, and among them, curiously, in a very appealing way, they watched the participation of the Galician Culture Council, which, according to law, has precisely functions of advising the Government and also of advising Parliament. What's the problem with not letting them speak here, in this parliament, the Council of Galician Culture? Look, we are going to look at specific issues: it is true — the President of the Commission said — that amendments from this group were accepted, from the three groups. Then the spokesperson of the People's Party will come talking about percentages, but this is not a quantitative issue, it's a qualitative question. It is true that some formal issues have been accepted, and also some substantive questions, for example, all that has to do with the approaches to introducing the gender perspective into the law, which was completely absent. And there are other formal amendments that were accepted, but really, the fundamental issues, the central issues, those that had to do with the hard core of the law, those were systematically rejected by most of the People's Party, which demonstrates absolute closure and immobilization in exactly the central issues. As a result, today's text of debate in Parliament is, in this sense, practically the same thing that came out of the debate of the refund amendment, with a clear and absolute prevalence of economic criteria on social issues, opening the door to this speculative business of housing and urban regeneration, in which large investment groups are, these voitre funds that are taking over the property of the dwelling in Galicia, at the risk of stressing processes — which are already there — the expulsion of residents and traditional activities in urban centres, these processes of gentrification, and also marginalizing the social aspects that do not count in this law, above all that has to do with the exclusion and vulnerability of important social groups. There is an article that is absolutely relevant in this sense: when you talk about return and resettlement measures, you turn them into power and non-compulsory measures, i.e., that the administration is not obliged to guarantee the reallocation of people who are expelled from these historic centers. What prevails, therefore, in the text of the law are numbers, accounts and business about people, and public policies must, above all, watch for people; people first, especially people who need it most. Then it also clearly opens the doors to speculation and business around abandoned rural nuclei, which can also be objected not to public policies for their recovery and to their dedication to services, activities and equipment, but to the business of these large speculative groups. It also introduces measures of dubious effectiveness, such as the canon of immovables in state of abandonment, which will apply only in Rexurbe areas and which has higher management costs than collection, because, according to its own memory, it foresees revenues of seventy-eight thousand euros on the assumption of the declaration of sixteen Rexurbe areas; seventy-eight thousand euros of collection, with all processing and administrative management and all the expenditure that this entails. Then there's another central aspect that justifies our discrepancy, which is the grave lack of protection of cultural heritage and public heritage. Because this law provides for the privatization of public spaces with the excuse of solving accessibility and energy efficiency needs, going against that laid down in the Galician Cultural Heritage Act, in its article 56, which states that any changes to areas of special protection should only be made through special protection plans and catalogues. In addition, this law provides, in its article 15, for private use of the basement for parking, an article which is contradictory to the tendency that is installed and established in all historical nuclei to bet on the peonalization rather than on the traffic rotated. In addition, this law enables and allows the alteration and destruction of the plot, excluding the criterion of maintenance of urban plots, alignments and cracks existing in historical sets. It seems very serious to us, because it goes against the protection of the plot as an untouchable historical heritage, which is in all international and UNESCO regulations, and because it can be put at risk even the declaration of the heritage of humanity of the city of Compostela if it applies to the letter this law. And if it wasn't all that I said, this law also creates legal insecurity with shortcuts that aim to undermine not only the cultural norms and not only the regulations of the Law of the ground, but also to go over municipal regulations, general plans, special plans and even the basic autonomic plans, creating a genuine right of eternity against cultural heritage. On the other hand, in the management instruments that provide for this law in the areas of intervention, we miss — and it is one of the great effects that also has this rule — social participation. Because you create technical commissions, but you don't create any commission or council to involve residents, people who have traditional activities and neighboring entities. Administrative coordination is created through a technical committee, but what they create is a lot of technocracy but little democracy. Finally, we miss this rule an explicit and clearer reference to direct public intervention by the administration in rehabilitation and urban regeneration. Because you promised in your program and also in government documents that would intervene, with direct intervention through the IGVS, nothing more and nothing less than ten thousand homes in rural nuclei and historic nuclei. And you know what the balance of these years of legislation is? Twenty-eight dwellings, Counsellor, twenty-eight dwellings in Lugo, Betanzos, Mondoñedo, Ferrol and Ourense. That's the balance, and they announced ten thousand. Not to mention the clientelism that you use in the distribution, for example, of public funds through the Hurbe plans, that they give them to the municipal governments of the People's Party that you meet to agree on these agreements, because there is no public summons, no transparency and no equitable access to public funds. Finally, and to finish, although this law regulates management instruments, it foresees measures to finance and unify and systematize mechanisms and resources — some of them already existing and limited — the reality is that it deepens in the marketing and speculation around housing, deprotects property, creates shortcuts for privatization of public space, does not count on the resident population and puts the business factor over the human factor and numbers above people. That's why BNG won't support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u24	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u25	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. Mr. Castineira and Mrs. Vázquez, who accompanies us today, do you remember Aladdino's tale and his wonderful lamp? I'm sure you do. For in that matter of law, you at the lamp also asked him for three wishes, which were to simplify, speed up and facilitate. And the truth is, so told, in principle, the story has also entangled us. That's why we've been careful and willing to give, too, and even encouraged to ask genius for a wish, and that desire is that none of his three wishes would be granted the cost of lowering cautions or rights about our heritage. But as in all tales, the end was already written, and our desire, logically, was not fulfilled. The People's Party had made it clear from the beginning that, at most, it would allow corrections of style, but in no case, of argument. Today, therefore, from the Socialist Group we have to confess that, where we created to share with you a certain illusion, we have only found disappointment, because, where this law had to be compromised, it chose to be unattended, where it had to be encouraged, it chose to sanction, and where it had to be protected, it chose to be helpless. Our built heritage, our cities, our villages, they are tangible, they can be touched, they can be observed, they can penetrate, they have history. They speak of past uses, customs, traditions, celebrations and people. I am the living footprint of the past, silent witness of the present the useful tool of the future. And given that sensitive and empathic part of the territory and our history, we ask the Galician Union for more commitment and more means to be able to protect a heritage that is of all Greek citizenship and not just a few. It is a law that is born, surprisingly, by announcing that you are already lowered in a way of beautiful display of measures, many of which, by the way, have already existed and the news reveal that the only way this government has found to ensure axillization and the incentive to rehabilitation goes through the deprotection and neglect of competences, which is not surprising when in the reports prior to the drafting of this law or a single word has been heard from the Council of Culture or the General Directorate of Cultural Heritage, as well as from the Galeg Culture Council, which is absolutely incomprehensible. The word heritage, I tell you, is named on sixty occasions in this law and the term cultural sixty-eight times, how can the conscious silence of that council be explained? And why didn't you show up, when we asked all opposition groups to do so, during the presentation process? Is your opinion perhaps less important than that of the other institutions and bodies that have participated in this law? For all this, and despite the acceptance of some of our amendments, we have to be clear and recognize that the final text does not respond to many of our amendments. The Socialist Group has tabled a total of 166 amendments and, as reflected in the Phoenician report, it has reached acceptance or transaction of a total of 34, I don't know if at the end of 35 of them. And beyond the numbers, which are just that, numbers, is the really important thing, which is the meaning of the amendments that have been accepted. The majority either correct or point out the contents of the articulated, the rest of the amendments were rejected. Overall, our amendments pursued three very clear and very transversal objectives: they demanded greater commitment, greater staffing and greater bail. All that was supposed to compromise some of these three petitions was completely rejected. Mr. Castineira, Mrs. Vázquez, commitment to the heritage means taking steps forward, getting on the front line and taking on the responsibilities that one has to assume when legislating. This government had two ways, two possible ways, and so we have already revealed it to the IGVS director himself in his presence. On the one hand, I could have chosen to provide more and better offices of provincial heritage services, an alternative to which there was no clear response and which, however, seemed to us the most sensible: to continue to rely on the most qualified and prepared equipment, but to provide them with more human and material means. Because the problem is not the negative reports of this type of service, but the eternal delays in some of them, as was the case of the Pontevedra Provincial Service, which had to meet about 2,200 annual records counting with a fixed template of three superior architects. The other way was to articulate a law as it is now, to delegate to local entities — i.e. to the municipalities — the responsibility to inform many of the actions that will be done in our historical helmets or areas of cultural interest. And that's where he chose. The Socialist Party, of course, does not oppose that path, but we doubt, and much doubt, its effectiveness as it is being proposed, mainly because it seems to be based on consideration, I don't know if it is naive or rather blind, that the municipalities throughout Galicia live in a state of low activity throughout the year and that urbanism services are seeking to collect more competences to keep their architects and municipal architects active and busy. This is so much as to obviate the findings of the 2017 people's valet report—I don't know if it's the best day to draw this comment—that, among other issues, it clearly pointed out: Many municipalities lack the technical and legal staff needed to address the workload they have, but that can't justify that citizens' rights are not met. It also says: there are rules, but there are no technical, economic and legal means in the local administration to apply them in time and form. And in some cases it says: we observe that there is also a lack of will to carry them out. It is true that these circumstances should not warn us either if we are actually expected to remedy them. But that's not the case, and despite our amendment to this issue, which sought and requested sufficient multi-year funding for the fulfilment of the objectives of this law, it was not accepted, as no amendments were accepted that were asked not to lower the monitoring of the heritage. Therefore, the Council of Galicia delegates to the municipalities, frees itself from responsibilities, frees itself from burdens, and in return facilitates the way by lowering the conditions for rehabilitation, both in buildings with environmental and structural protections, even diluting the differentiation between them, and thus contradicting the spirit of the catalogues of protection and of Galicia's own cultural protection law. And before that -- I insist -- the Council of Culture is silent, with a silence that makes it complicit in this consensual trapuche. And all of this, in addition, without compromising more resources and resources for local administrations. It's more, even with this law, the Galician Union will save, let's be clear, it'll save the money from the new contracts that would properly provide the provincial Heritage services. On the other hand, we have already expressed in the various interventions in full and during the Phoenicia itself that we believe this law was based on the culpability of the owners and the owners, in addition, on points on responsibility in the design of the policies that preceded the current situation. It cannot be claimed that an administration that was a consensor, that was little attentive to planning, the landscape and the protection of the Greek heritage, especially in residential, now solves the sanction blow. In ethics and in practice we do not see it frankly coherent. We also don't share the creation of a cannon that applies in cases if not in others. By setting an example, in this law, no group has discussed it, and we will not do it, which we consider that the evaluation reports of buildings are required for all buildings of more than fifty years old, and even of less useful age if it is dictated by a municipal order. So why is a abandonment sanction envisaged, but only for the constructions of areas that are considered strategic? Is it consistent that it is understood that the obligation to preserve is for each other but not for others? We believe not, as we don't think the solution goes by sanctioning the entire population, but rather by encouraging it sufficiently and with much realism. We didn't realize that many rehabilitation actions entail high, extremely high costs, not that they can not only face a person at risk of social exclusion, but a lot of families with resources. Therefore, we believe it is right to hold to this law of cowardly law, because it lacks courage to face the grave problem of recovery of our built heritage and to face not only the rehabilitation of historic centers, but all the heritage that makes up the city, all that makes up the town, and that at least privileged seems indirectly condemned to remain forgotten and degraded. If I am not mistaken, this law also seeks to be of regeneration and urban renewal of Galicia, not only of historical helmets, but also of urban and periphery areas, which are a great element of the city's conformation and which are, in addition, the first letter of presentation of them, and to the same extent we think it should be treated. Our amendments, therefore, of request for suppression were very, very clear about it. We do not believe that this law should contemplate any of the articles that make up chapter III of Title IV, which refer to that canon of abandoned immovables. Even so, we believe that, as a way to encourage and involve citizenship, you have to start by working on the awareness of the cultural values of our built heritage, because it's common to find citizens who don't understand why the refusal of a works license not to allow a wooden window to be changed by an aluminum, by increasing a hollow slope on a facade of another larger size, by reducing a stone floor in an entry or also by increasing the height of a forged one. All these issues, without prior information and training, are very complex to make sense. That's why we tabled an amendment in this respect to work not only from regulation and regulation, but also to develop programs and awareness campaigns that allow the Greeks and the Greeks to value the heritage in which they live, what is important is to preserve those values that distinguish our architecture, especially the popular one, which is especially mistreated over time. By positively valuing the acceptance of that amendment, we also see, in any case, inconsistencies in the attitude of the council itself, to which we ask greater bail, because, frankly, it seems difficult to aspire to sensitize when it is the administration itself, through this law, who opens that very dangerous door for the deprotection of the heritage, with a confusing articulate — and I think that in this we agree all groups — the flexibility and agileization of licensing procedures with which it seems inescapable to deprotection. In fact, of the amendments tabled by our group and other groups of opposition to the articulate that refer to interventions in buildings in areas of special protection and direct licences that would affect them — that is, from Articles 40 to 45 — the government group did not accept any of our amendments. Not only have the cautions expressed by all groups not only been taken into account through the amendments and the various debates that have been held, but it seems that the real effectiveness of the groups seems to be inseparable. It seems that it may, in any case, become a trap, since it will be the municipalities themselves, in any case, those who declare their interest in participating in the ability or not to issue direct licences, something which with the Cultural Heritage Act itself has already been shown to be totally ineffective in most of the Councils of Galicia, who have already had the opportunity to sign the conventions for the transfer of competences, and save cases that can be counted with the fingers of one hand, and above, the rest of the municipalities have chosen to continue to delegate to the provincial heritage services. So it doesn't seem that what in almost three years has failed to work, it's going to work now, and that's why, in the face of a law that sums up this posture, our insistence on demanding the necessary commitment and provision of aid by the Galician Board. It is a fact that much of the articulate makes a forcefully referenced reference, as Mr Bará had already said, but not compulsory, to the set-up of measures and commitments which must assume the Council of Galicia, how to commit annual funds to the execution of many of them, without this, this law is born absolutely empty of content. Others of our amendments were looking for issues such as ensuring the defence of citizens' rights, such as those that require the Administration to fulfil the same deadlines in the reports as for the administrator in the submission of documentation and allegations. In that sense, there does not seem to be much balance or sufficient transparency, something which, by the way, concerning administrative silence, is one of the most common claims in processing a license. Because any technician in Galicia can tell you about cases of license delays of even four or five years, and in municipalities of all colors, Mr. Castineira, in municipalities of all political colors, and that's what can't be. Town Councils have to answer with single and complete reports, and in time. It can't be that promoters are granted ten days to respond to claims for healing, at risk, otherwise, of expiry of the file, and the Administration is given a sine die deadline. We understand that there is no compromise here. And what is summed up in the axillization of this law? To pass the ball down to the bottom and it'll catch up. This is what, as you will understand, is alarming us and necessarily putting us in a position of extreme distrust, the same as we show before the necessary preservation of competences, since the new management figures seem to ride very dangerously over the municipal competences with much of the articulation that, with regard to possible urban actions, overlaps with the municipal planning figures. And by the way, we could go into detailing much more every one of our amendments, but we think that the issues we just reported sum up the major discrepancies, which are the ones that today alienate the Socialist Group from this act, which announces reductions even before opening the season. For our band, nothing else at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Now we greet the students and students of the 5th primary at Teo's Os Tilos Center. Good morning and welcome to Parliament, as well as your teachers and escorts. You have the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u27	I think the teachers told him they couldn't hear this. Well, good morning to all and all. The People's Party intends to reduce this debate to a technical debate, far from political keys, but nothing further from reality. Behind this complicated normative code for almost all of us, the political and ideological position of the People's Party regarding the housing, economic and society of Galicia as a project. This bill is made from an eminently neoliberal perspective and relies on the legislative tools needed to mobilize the built heritage, even with forceful measures towards private promoters, even with the reduction of the value of properties to 50% to escort it to private promoters. Finally, it is sought to maximize the benefit of large private investors, so that it is attractive to invest in the city centers of Greece, but it does not put people at the center, most people, but excludes the current needs of most of Galician society and completely forgets the main housing problem in this country now, which is the right of people to enjoy a decent home. How is it intended to maximize the benefits for private investors? First, with strong public intervention, paradoxically, betting heavily on expropriation or forced sales of already constructed dwellings — even with 50% of value reductions — to be done with them private investors, who have benefited decades of promotion and speculation policies in Galicia and the Spanish State. But, on the other hand, this public intervention is not done to increase the public heritage of housing, for example, for social rent, a very necessary element. With such a great opportunity that we had now, because we bet on this public intervention, on expropriation, on forced sale, etc., why don't we take advantage of the law to say that one of the objectives is to increase public housing assets for social rent? No, the People's Party only knows the Caton of neoliberalism and speculation. We also seek to maximize the benefit by reducing the standards of protection of our heritage, endangering the conservation of heritage and cultural values and liberalizing the computer function, or by accessing long-demanded requests by lobbyists, such as the segregation of the basement for private use when the ground is public, or the recovery of the nefarious technique of the transfer of use, so in cities like La Coruña there are still paying many and many compensations with public money. In both cases and elsewhere, we present amendments that have not been accepted by the People's Party, which is very clear what interests it serves. Deprotection is particularly serious in the rules of direct application, the most serious in the bill, because they will prevail over general planning of general municipal management plans, autonomic basic plan or planning and development, including the approved PEPRI. Only individual BICs and full-protection BICs are excluded from these rules. In practice, these rules of direct application will imply a reduction in the level of protection of approved special plans, in the case of historical helmets PEPRI, including provisions such as the functional union of buildings, which, in addition to denaturalizing urban typology to be protected, assume in practice the greatest limitations generally set by PEPRI. That's what we're going to add, as a further element of de-protection, to support the accessibility and energy enhancement actions that can even breach the heritage protection regime, including the BICs. Here we made amendments so that there was at least prior authorization of Heritage and we were denied, they told us not. Obviously, it wouldn't make sense, when you want to deprotect, that there is a prior authorization of Heritage. It's clear, then, the goal. The possibility is given by this law to alter alignments, raspberries and urban plots; that is, to charge the typology of the nucleus — as has been said before — supported by all of the world's legislation. And it is possible to eliminate, the non-substantial modifications of the simplified strategic environmental assessment, as mandated by Law 21/2013, of environmental assessment. There is also another feature within the privatisation intent, which is the ease to occupy the public domain, the generality of the occupation of the public domain. We also asked here for reports of Heritage before doing this occupation of the public domain and it was refused. When we talk about a strong public intervention in the service of private interests, we also refer to the glaring absence of the concept of public housing and soil as a regulatory element of the market and as a solution to the dramatic problems of thousands of people expelled from their homes. or that they have difficulty emancipating themselves because they can't afford a housing, or that they pay more than 50% of their salary to pay a housing, etc. The public park of social housing is a basic element for regulating the market, for solving all people. Article 47 of the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, which use it so much for some things and so little for the majority! No measure for the mobilization of empty housing, no measure for the promotion of social rent. Counsellor, I think two months ago he was interviewed in Vigo's Lighthouse and you said, "With this law, if you receive help to rehabilitate, it won't be easy to have the house unoccupied. If you charge the grant, you will have to use the floor, rent it or sell it." Where is there anything in the law that has to do with your statements, Counselor? Nothing! This is precisely one of the horrendous absences that we try to correct with our amendments: that whenever there are subsidies, public aid, they are linked to the availability of these housing to people, for their own use, for rent or for sale. We even made an amendment in which we said that if after receiving those aids, after the work was finished, in three years it was not occupied, they would have to return the aid, and the People's Party voted against it. As I said, no measures for the mobilization of empty housing, no measures for the promotion of social rent. And also in this law, the right to citizen participation in the rehabilitation process is not guaranteed. It is essential that we participate in citizenship in our rehabilitation processes! That's why we made amendments to public participation, because if not what we're doing are processes that produce centrification, that end up expelling the inhabitants that were left in these degraded areas, increasing the prices of rent and making neighborhoods that are not suited to the people who already live there. They weren't accepted either. Nor is the right to the reallocation of persons sufficiently guaranteed, which is always regulated authoritatively; repeating — as has been said here — in this case the word "power" on too many occasions. For the empty housing, we proposed the autonomous tax for the empty housing, which will well-definedly serve so that these large housing owners would not use it to speculate and therefore to mobilize the empty housing. When Galicia's main challenge is to mobilize those about 300,000 homes that are empty, what measures do we put on the table the Government of Galicia's Board, both in this law and in the Housing Law 8/2012, as well as in the Land Law? None. And that's how we're going! The empty housing programs of the Galician Union could only mobilize 16 homes and run 10,499 euros in an annual year, 3.2%, because there is no incentive for the mobilization of the empty housing, incentives that we put on the table in this law and were rejected. It's no accident either. There are not enough measures to avoid entrification processes, there are no shots going around; on the contrary, that is what is intended. As for rural nuclei, it says a lot about the work of the Government of the People's Party for decades in this country; that is, after decades of policies that have emptied the countryside, which have aged the rural — with v — and which have left nuclei abandoned, what this Government of the People's Party proposes, the only effective measure that this law proposes, is to create a register of abandoned nuclei with housing to sell, and that the municipalities are real estate agents. When we speak of dynamisation measures in Article 121, nothing at all, no effective measures. We proposed that, whenever we declared a core in a state of abandonment, if we had to make a plan of dynamization so that it wasn't just a law that sold our heritage at the cost of balance. And it was refused once again. Who will buy that housing if structural policies are not changed, the structural conditions that make people leave rural? If you don't create jobs, if you don't dynamize the economy by taking advantage of the endogenous potential, if you don't manage administratively and politically, if you don't have public services, who will buy those housing? Gwyneth Paltrow — or as you say —. If Abel were Losada, I'd say much better. [[Laughter]] In all this, we added two more questions. One, the legal insecurity generated by the coexistence of this law with the Galician Land Law, passed in 2016; three years ago, and that has already undergone four changes. Long live the legal security of the People's Party and its rigour in drafting legislation! Four times modified and based exclusively on the model of uncontrolled expansion, typical of the years of the real estate boom. With contradictory content of this law with the law of the ground. As we said earlier, the segregation of the ground and the basement for private use in the basement is contradictory to the Law of the ground and even shocks to the Law 5/2016, of Galician heritage, which already lowered the protection, although not as much as what is intended to be approved. And here, among all of this, we will have prepared a perfect cocktail to continue to devastate the enormous possibilities of this country. Another question: strengthening the role of the Galician Union to the detriment of municipal autonomy. If in the soil law it was already done in the field of rustic soil, here the Junta de Galicia reduces municipal autonomy in urban areas, in the boundaries of areas and areas of action, aris, slums, areas of special rehabilitation, and in general on the area of competence related to specific instruments that create the law. And all that, as I said, is the greatest glory of the private businesses of large companies. We believe there could be the possibility of another model, based on that public intervention but taking advantage of to increase the public housing park, penalizing speculation with the unoccupied housing, linking the subsidies to the placement of housing at social prices, involving citizenship in the definition of regenerating and rehabilitation actions, and betting on providing means of agitating property processes without reducing protection. I mean, what we need is more means for fulfilling the Law of Heritage in time and form, we don't need to lower the protection of our heritage, which is a fundamental value for our future. And rural rehabilitation policies should not be disconnected from policies that guarantee a live and full of possibilities. There's nothing worth rehabilitating if there's no job, if schools are closed, or there's no budget for dependency, or if you're betting on giving the territory to the model of predation. It was ultimately what we tried to shape in our 102 amendments, which were rejected by the most transcendents, who were talking about empty housing, who were talking about promoting social rent, who were talking about not lowering the protection of wealth and the defense of public property. Only the public domain can be dealt with privately in the final instance and the prior report of Heritage and Administration. Cannot generalize public domain occupation by private sector. Yes, we will conclude by saying that there is indeed one of which we are satisfied — although partially, only partially — that it has been accepted, that it is the right to so much and retract, incomprehensiblely forgotten in the bill. In the end, with our amendment to Article 13.1, the effect of delimitation of an area of edificatory rehabilitation of urban regeneration is regulated. It foresees — and has been included in the amendment procedure — the right to so much treatment and withdrawal by the acting administration, whether the council or the board, even though it refers the regulation of the procedure to a later regulation. So it won't be operational until there's a regulation; let's hope it doesn't happen like the local landfill law of 2004. But it is true that it is a very valid instrument, and we are satisfied that it has been included, because it discourages payment in black money, in the face of the threat that the administration may acquire the property for the price in public writing, and it constitutes an intervention tool in the real estate market — if any — that allows the administration and direct acquisition of the real estate in the defined areas in which these rehabilitation or rehabilitation operations are intended to be carried out. It would allow, if there were any will, to increase the housing park linked to social policies, a key tool against real estate speculation when the voyeur funds come to buy cheap and sell; it would allow the regular administration and not let them camp to their widths, as they are doing in the cities of Galicia. In short, these acquired housing, if any, could be allocated to social policies. In short, to make a law on housing right now, in which there are thousands and thousands of people who have difficulty in paying rent or mortgage or who are directly expelled from their homes, who do not take into account the increase in the public housing park of social rent says much about the intention and ideology of the People's Party; that it does not take into account the mobilization of empty housing has much to do with what the People's Party thinks about housing policy; that does not guarantee the right to resettlement has much to do with sensitivity...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u28	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u29	...of the People's Party with the people and clearly shows the way the People's Party wants to impose on housing policies in this country. It is a law that endangers the cultural heritage of our towns and cities and that in rural areas has as its sole measure the sale of our heritage at the cost of balance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u30	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Castilian.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, good morning. First, I want to start by thanking you. I want to begin by thanking the services of the House for its excellent work — and I stress: excellent –, support and help to carry out this bill and bring it here today for the vote, especially to his lawyer Puri. I want to thank you, as well as some other staff accompanying her, who know that there were several days, and I'm aware that at ten o'clock in the evening I was working on the dictates of this law. Thanks to the services of the House. [[Applause]] Secondly, I would also like to thank Luis Bará, Mrs. Pierres and Antonio Sánchez, colleagues and fellow speaker, their work, their contributions and also the disposition in the work of the presentation. It has to be said that there has been a carving and a tone of pleasant work; it is important, and therefore I want to highlight it in this participation. The fruit of that work in that paper was that they were accepted and that seventy-six amendments were made out of the thirty-eight presented, but logically they cannot all be accepted. I think it's nothing wrong and there was an important content. Then, in assessing the content of the amendments that were accepted, or not, it also influences the content of the amendments that were submitted by the groups themselves; there was someone who valued them, I suppose it put the valuation to themselves. I want to thank the Government of the Union for their work and, I would say, the great project that he presented to this chamber. A bill that I would say was a model of participation—in spite of what was said here—where all that citizen he wanted and all those collectives they wanted participated. It's not strange to you, it's just like that. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But not only before the presentation in the House, but since it was presented in the House, opened on the website for the submission of allegations. And there have been allegations of countless collectives who have helped to strengthen this bill and this law that I hope will be approved today; I would like it to be unanimously adopted by the House, but at least I am convinced that with the votes of my group it will be adopted. And I would also like to thank — and I am finished with thanks — for the confidence that my colleagues and colleagues in the group have deposited in me to be the rapporteur of this law. A law of rehabilitation, regeneration and urban renewal, as its name says; it's not a housing law, Mr. Sánchez, for that there's another housing law. This is a law — it is not a recast text, as you would like — of rehabilitation, regeneration and urban renewal. And, therefore, within that law if there is and there are measures to increase the public housing park — of course they go — and there are direct actions by the Board in that sense — of course — or to acquire housing in rent; but it is not a housing law. It is a law of rehabilitation, whose fundamental objectives are: to facilitate the recovery of building and protection; to promote the culture of rehabilitation; to promote economic, social and demographic dynamization; and to reconcile the protection of heritage with the improvement of living conditions and energy efficiency. To this end, it takes measures which are: to facilitate public intervention by ensuring the permanent protection of actions — logically — of administrations; to coordinate between administrations the speed of proceedings, the feasibility of actions and the guarantee of the protection of heritage; to encourage the participation of individuals in the rehabilitation and urban regeneration processes with financing and action programmes — of individuals, Mr Sánchez and the opponents — and to facilitate the accessibility and energy efficiency of buildings. And the law provides for aid mechanisms — yes — for the owners who perform the rehabilitation duties, but also penalises those who, despite these aids, continue to fail to fulfil the rehabilitation duty. That is yes: criminalization always affects only those who can do so, never those who lack resources; never. So it's a law that's meant to recover our heritage and it's a law that I'd say it's consensual and made in coordination with the various departments of the board. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about a government of the People's Party, a government that is one, and this bill has been passed at the Board of Directors. We're not -- and we don't confuse him -- in the Bipartite, when one said one thing and the other said the opposite; that's what we live here, in this chamber, unfortunately, with some laws or some regulations they brought. This is a government that approves things by consensus in the Council of the European Union, the highest body, and that is the project we are debating here today. You were talking about municipal autonomy: look, according to the articulated text presented here today for the vote, there is not a single intervention within this law which does not start at the initiative of the council, which is not an initiative of the council. If the municipalities don't want it, it won't be done. You say it attacks municipal autonomy, because you tell me where. Tell me if you're making it easier for them to deal on time, for example, with the time-to-time plans of the general plans, which are agitating their procedures, if they are affecting municipal autonomy; if they affect municipal autonomy when a municipality presents for approval an integral rehabilitation area to the board. Logically, you approve the board because it's going to fund part of these expenses, but who the proposal is the county. Or the Rexurbe areas: who the proposal is the municipality. If there is one thing that intervenes in the Union, which is the areas of urgent action, within the Rexurbe areas. That's why it acts in the Union because it's an area of urgent action—of direct action by the Union—but the Regurbe area was approved in advance in order to act on it. A Reurbian area which carries funding — for Reurbian centres, for example — up to 60 percent of its cost; a very important funding for the regeneration not only of the buildings but also of the environment and, of course, in economic and social matters, for the recovery of these neighbourhoods. These will basically apply to historical helmets and BIC contours. You also speak of municipal autonomy, in Article 40, and Mrs. Pierres spoke of rules, direct licenses — she said — for the municipalities, articles 40 to 45, and they spoke of the other groups exactly the same. Ladies and gentlemen, do not confuse rules of direct application for all municipalities licensed directly by the municipalities. Direct licences are only and exclusively Article 44; direct application rules, 40, 41, 42 and 43; and they are totally different issues. The rules of direct application are for the three hundred thirteen municipalities throughout the area of the municipalities themselves, but they are rules of application. It does not mean that they do not need a heritage report, nor much less, but that they are application rules, of course, such as the joint use of portals for a single core, to put up an elevator for two buildings for example that communicate with each other, the regularization of parcels resulting from the distortion of the original plot; they do not confuse or do not intend to confuse; when there was a distortion of the original parcel, it is permitted — and logically there will be a Heritage report — to enable, yes, to retrieve the original, not vice versa, to add parcels when one of the buildings has an area or configuration that makes it impossible to properly solve the accessibility or housing conditions or to join business sites, and also to draft projects that affect several buildings that may have common spaces at all of the promotion; that is, to make joint projects of several buildings. But that doesn't mean you disembowel the plot, or much less. Those are measures that can be done directly. And licenses, Article 44, yes, the law says that municipalities can grant direct license without the authority of the competent council in the field of wealth in some cases. I'm going to give you an example, to see what they think, to see what you would say. A catalogued building. When a building is catalogued, it means it has a file file, a unique record of that building, where there are elements that are protected, where that catalogue was previously informed by the Heritage Council or by the General Heritage Directorate in this case, where it is approved and what works can be done in that building. It turns out that we have a catalogued building that has protected a shield on the facade or a balustrade -- there have been, and many, fortunately, in our country -- and there is a owner of a housing in that building who wants to change the bathtub for a shower and asks for a license from the Town Hall. You say it goes to Heritage; we say, no, that license that gives it directly to the Town Hall. Why? Because if a municipality can license for fifty, eighty or a hundred dwellings, any of the 300 municipalities of Galicia, with more reason, can license without unprotection — from my point of view, you seem to disprotect; man!, change a bathtub for a shower, right? But also, if in the opposite building or in what is 50 meters away, within the protective environment of that building we were talking about before it has protected a shield or a balustrade, if you ask for permission from the community of neighbors or the owner of that building to paint the courtyard of lights, you can also give that license to paint the courtyard of lights the Town Hall. Or is it that the municipalities are minor and they don't know and have to be protected from the provincial delegations of Heritage or autonomy? Home! I think that's why you can license. So this is in article 44 and we are in agreement with that, and if you consider it to be unprotective, then, ladies and gentlemen, we are deprotecting this law. I understand you don't. What's going on is agitating and facilitating the procedures not only to the municipalities but to the citizens, who really suffer these consequences, and that's what they want. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been talk here — Mr Sánchez — of public uses for private parking. Another confusion they want totally. The law is not only meant for historical cases, because it seems that when we talk about rehabilitation, we only talk about the currants of the cities; no, no; the law is for the whole territory of the 300 municipalities, including of course the rural nuclei. And when we are, for example, in areas of expansion — and I, of course, are from Lugo, I know and have participated in the elaboration of the general plan, I assure you that I know quite well well the areas of Lugo where they are necessary and that they demand green areas like May water, as it is usually said — it turns out that in a block surrounded by streets what is intended is to re-establish that area, where there are some lows of eighty meters of background, that in those lows or in that courtyard of apple the only one that is to be laid waste, so say, the rear facades—if they were sold the houses in that way—what is intended is to be made public, what is intended is to make land, by course, private property, in this urban reurbanization or urban regeneration, what is intended to achieve a public space, that is public space, that is a garden, two thousand or four thousand square metres—that is what is intended to be used in cities, and what is meant to be used in order, and what is not for change, is not for change, a place. It's backwards, Mr. Sánchez. The private goes to the public and that's what's going on. And that's what there is. Real estate gun. And there's a lot to talk about -- almost I don't get the two minutes and I get the rest of me. But let's see, the law, in the Rexurbe areas, exclusively in the Rexurbe areas, establishes a canon of abandoned real estate, sanctioning — on the other hand, it's called everything. I would call it a tribute, because it is an autonomous tribute, a tribute of solidarity and justice. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know how neighboring communities work. We have a community of neighbors where there are a number of services (water and central heating or there are elevators, etc., etc.) And there's a quota that's called a minimum of operation in that community. Why? Because those services give added value to that building, and therefore, even if it doesn't live there or live but rather as it puts the heating on the top, on the bottom, on the side and around it, because it almost lives on it, but it puts on a minimum, of maintenance. So a Rexurbe area is like a community of owners, where you're going to invest a lot of money from public funds, from the board, from state and other estates and also from private people, owners who are inside it, and what there can't be is a person who owns a building that, economically, as I said before, turns out to hide and hopes that that it will rise of value to be there speculating. No, you have to participate or you should participate in that duty to rehabilitate, and if you do not participate, yes, you have a canon and you will pay that tribute, which logically has to be first included in a census, with a series of proceedings by the municipality, and that tribute to where you go? Rehabilitation, in the same area Reurbate where that tribute is made. But that's not what you say. That's what there is. And, curiously, I'd say there's an important controversy on the subject of the cannon. There is one part of the opposition groups, BNG and PSOE, who say to suppress it; in fact, they presented thirty-five peaks or about forty amendments on the abolition of this tribute -- the BNG, one, is telling me Louis; it's true -- And it's, on the other hand, In Marea, which also presents a series of them, but instead of limiting it exclusively to Rexurbe areas, it also plants it for other areas of intervention, such as ARUs.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u32	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u33	I'm going to finish, Mr. President. We may agree, but I think the project presented to us by the Council of Galicia is an intermediate position, I think it's the good one, and we're certainly on that line. Ladies and gentlemen, we are having here a courageous bill, despite someone qualified him as a coward, brave, who makes decisions whose fundamental objective is urban regeneration and the rehabilitation and recovery of our heritage and our rural nuclei. By the way, Mr. Sánchez, in the rural nuclei, in the rule that we were introduced here, had to be for sale, and with an amendment of En Marea he was added the rent too, i.e., they are for sale and rent...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u34	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u35	...of the real estate that you said; it was not for real estate, but it's to recover the nuclei when the municipalities so request.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u36	Thank you, Mr. Castineira. Round of parliamentary groups to define themselves on amendments. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u37	Mr. Castineira, I admit that you're disengaged in praise and gratitude and that you also praise the work climate that we had in the presentation, but what I do not admit or share is that you speak of a model of participation in the pre-hearing procedure, of approaches and allegations that you had the law. Did you look at the file? I have it here. Do you know how many approaches and allegations there have been in this process? [[Mr. Bará Torres displays a document.]] Well, look, there was three, thirteen. Do you think 13...? They are all here informed — if, yes, Counselor, do not deny with your mind — they are all here — mostly, by the way, rejected. [[Murmurs.]] The College of Architecture, the College of Technical Architecture, the municipalities of Santiago, Vigo, Ferrol... they're all here and they're all here. So don't talk to me about a model of participation. And let me not mention the model of participation in parliamentary proceedings when you have reviewed the procedure provided for in Parliament's Rules of Procedure. They only admitted participation, the audience of the general director of the IGVS, that is, for him to come here to defend the text of the law, and they watched over that of all other bodies and institutions that could give us a different view, among them those bodies that refused the amendments and the approaches, which referred precisely to the deprotection of the heritage, the possibility of destruction of the plot and urban plot. You've been vetoed by those. And it's a parliamentary procedure, it's not the prior consultation and hearing, it's a parliamentary procedure. And you also talked about the possibility of getting closer to this parliamentary procedure through the procedure that is also included in Parliament, "Lexize it with us." And do you know how many you've come up with in that procedure? Zero potato, there was none. So how do you talk to us about a model of participation and transparency if no one uses that procedure? I think it's to think and reflect why this procedure is not used when there can be so many people, so many bodies and so many entities affected. But above all, we censure, denounce and criticize silence and veto, the bite you put in this Parliament to the College of Architecture, the College of Technical Architecture, the Council of Galician Culture, the General Directorate of Heritage and the Fegamp. What was the problem with listening to these bodies and public officials, which provides for Parliament's Rules of Procedure to be heard at the hearing? What was the problem? What were you afraid of listening to speak and giving your opinion if, besides, you could then make your majority prevail? It's about transparency, it's about participation, it's about democracy, and you have an allergy. And it's true they've watched and there's no intervention in the entire process of the General Heritage Directorate. How can this be explained if it is a law that laminates central aspects of Galicia's Cultural Heritage Act, which has two years of vigency?, how can it be explained? Or did you veto the participation here of the Galician Culture Council, an advisory and advisory body of the Government and Parliament? Look, it's because the Galician Council of Culture, according to the Council's law, has, among other functions, "inquire and consult with the public authorities, especially the Union and Parliament," and you're against consulting us in this parliamentary process of law. He says, "To analyze those issues that refer to the Greek cultural heritage." And it turns out that the Galician Council of Culture does not analyse this law, which affects in fundamental matters the Greek cultural heritage. This isn't where to take it, unless you're here talking about a model of participation. Look, Mr. Castineira, this law deprotects cultural heritage, and what is more serious — tell all these bodies when they made the allegations — it deprotects the resident people, it does not count them, it allows them to expel them and does not force them to re-ox them, privatize the public space, responds to economic interests, the commercial interests, the speculative interests of these large Voitre funds, those large investment funds that are, like votres, gearing themselves to all these businesses. This law is also found to be the failure of ten years of policies of the Galician Union, of governments of the People's Party, of housing, of rehabilitation and urban regeneration, because I have already told you the data of their promises and their results: twenty-eight performances in historical helmets, when they promised to act in five hundred buildings, one thousand five hundred dwellings, one hundred fifty places. And not through ARI. I'm referring to direct performances at the Galego Institute of Vivenda e Solo. Twenty-eight performances I mentioned earlier. And in view of that, we, the BNG, put here in the debate the examples and models that it is carrying out with the law in force, and with all the administrative and normative pitfalls as well, in cities like Allariz, in cities like Pontevedra, in villages like Rianxo, which I believe in Galicia and the world examples of action on cultural heritage, on public space. So this is a law in favour of private property and against public property, it's a law designed for investment funds and not for resident persons, where there is no, there is neither participation nor transparency. And therefore our vote will be against the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u38	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u39	Thank you, President. The truth is, in our group we have only to manifest a position of general agreement with the amendments tabled by the groups of BNG and En Marea, saving -- yes yes -- some sort of point issues in some of them and especially those in which they come in contradiction with our own amendments. However, the greatest discrepancy — we have said it — we keep it with the amendments of the En Marea group, in that they consider the articles that refer to the canon of buildings in a state of abandonment, and that we reject it completely. On the other hand, I would like to express once again, as I did the other day in the committee intervention, our satisfaction because if I had taken into account, in addition to all groups, the introduction of the gender perspective as one of the principles that should guide this law. [[Applause]] Of course we'd like it to be much more powerful at certain points and with less repair as well, since since from our group we think it's a question that must be positioned in the same place as other issues and other principles, such as accessibility, housing or health issues. Cities were historically built, planned and thought of by men and men, for a white man, worker, heterosexual, in reproductive and healthy age. Urban spaces, housing, transit, public transport, equipment, are thought of by and for this stereotype. It is now necessary — that, in addition, there is an opportunity to review cities, to rehabilitate them, to reinstate them, to recover them — to count not only on the way to move and inhabit women, but also on all the collectives that have traditionally depended on them, such as our minors, the elderly and the dependent people. So for my part and on behalf of my group, I appreciate the effort to integrate the principle, even though — I insist — it could be on a level of greater presence throughout the articulate. In any case, this is a small step but that was absolutely necessary. It was also necessary — and so we expressed it with our amendments — that the valuation of housing had not been lowered in forced sales. Many abandoned dwellings if they were put in previous sale, but found no buyer, and they did not always become out of the market or speculating, at impossible prices; it was that on most occasions there was no demand in those areas. It's as simple as that: there was no demand. So, what are we going to hold the owners or owners responsible for? The general state of degradation of its contour? This is absolutely their responsibility, or the absence in time of urban, economic and social policies precisely in these areas. Why do you have to underestimate what's already a ridiculous price, which is going to be valued and proved also incapable of being sold? And if well this is complicated in areas like Rexurbe will be, the more complicated it will be in rural areas, a question that goes too far above this law and we think that with very little going on. Rural problems are not the arrival of Americans, as Mr. Sánchez has said, but they go through many other measures and much more transversal. And in order to finish, and given the discrepancies pointed out by some other group as well, to say that our group has accepted some compromise with the government group that, not being of our total liking — and so we expressed it in the commission — we have to accept what we believe to be better than the original text. Even so, our perception, by the writing of many of the articles, is that private interest in the public is being given priority, considering that this is the only driver of rehabilitation activity. In this sense, considering also the importance of supporting the drive of social rent, we recognize that perhaps this issue should be better collected and reflected in a more acceptable law, such as the Housing Law, in which the Administration's obligation to meet social housing demands as a right and not as a privilege should be raised more firmly. A law, ultimately which, without discussing its need, we believe that it will show its weaknesses and shortcomings in a short period of time. From our group we can only express all our warnings — which we have already made orally and documentally — and confirm that about 80% of the amendments were not accepted, it can only keep us from that happy ending of the story, which we are not concerned about the part that touches us, but rather about what affects and poses a danger to the conservation and protection of the cultural heritage of all Galicia. Let's be aware that when the assets get lost, they don't have to go back, they don't know about keys to rewind. And given this, our group will abstain on the adoption of a law that should have prioritized this point over the rest of the points. For our part, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u41	Well, Mr. Castineira, sometimes the lapses are very revealing. You said this bill was approved at the Galician Board of Directors. I don't know, I suppose it would be on the board of board of directors, it must have been that. Well, you talked about there was no such deprotection. Home!, look, it's no coincidence that you've watched the audience in the presentation period of the Director General of Heritage. Because you -- as Jose Mari would say -- "wouldn't stand his gaze," so they didn't want him to show up. Because this is an attack on cultural and architectural heritage and it's even contradictory to the passed Heritage Law not three years ago. And deprotection is just to make the investment attractive to those investors you're trying to seduce with the downsizing of heritage protection. Then you said it's not a housing law. Look, in the laws governments place their priorities, right? And at a time when there's a percentage of population in serious difficulties in order to pay their homes and they're even expelled from their homes because they can't afford, the first priority in this law would have to be to mobilize empty housing for these people. And you refused, right? Because there's a housing law, 8/2012, which doesn't have a single measure that contemplates to mobilize the empty housing and to increase the social rental public park, which is a fundamental element. In almost all European democratic countries there is this public park as a fundamental element in solving all economic incomes but also in regulating the real estate park. And you here give up. Don't come with excuses. It's not called rehabilitation. You do the law and you do what you want! And what they're saying is that even you can sell 50% of the value, even fulfilling conservation duties, and instead you refuse those expropriations, that these forced sales are going to grow up in a public park so that people can live at affordable prices. Instead, they use public intervention to bring private investors and then do business with these historical helmets or with these city centers. That's what it looks like in this law, and that's politics, of course it's politics, and you have the policy that the People's Party has always shown, when they sold public apartments to Voitre funds, when they speculated with the housing, that they approved Aznar the 1998 Law to inflate the real estate bubble, or when they did the tax cuts to the Voitre funds so they bought flats across the Spanish state without paying taxes, right? when every neighbor's son has to pay his taxes and here the Voitre funds are buying protection homes and exempt from paying taxes. That's politics. Of course, it's your policy, ours isn't that. And in this clear law it is because there are rehabilitation plans in many places, such as Euskadi or Catalonia, that link rehabilitation processes to social rent, and you haven't done so. It's a very legitimate choice, but it's that choice you make here. You're talking about there's no deprotection. It only gives me time to read Article 40: areas affected, rules of direct application, rules of direct application: "These determinations will prevail over what the general plans for municipal management, the Autonomic Basic Plan, development planning and the catalogues approved prior to the entry into force of this law." They will prevail, rules of direct application, maximum facilities; so much so that there has been a general plan for municipal management with participation, a plan for development with citizen participation, which goes above all that. Or, for example, when you say you're not a privatizer. See Article 13: "It will be possible to occupy the areas of free public domain spaces which are indispensable for the installation of lifts or other elements that guarantee universal accessibility, as well as common areas of private use, such as vestibules, rests, overcovered, beiris and sustainable, whether they are located on the ground or on the ground or on the flight, when it is not technically or economically viable, no other solution." Home!, of course, economically it will always be better to occupy the public domain than to use private domain. And we're asking for here is at least a report on Heritage, and you denied it. Etc., etc. Well, as for the rural nuclei, you said we put the rent one; of course, it's not just for sale, for rent. But we also put each rural nucleus declared in a state of abandonment to be accompanied by a plan of dynamization. Because we're not just talking about real estate, we're talking about people, we're talking about rural. And every architectural rehabilitation has to be accompanied by returning life to these cores and they need social and economic measures to restore their lives, and you have denied it. Because the only measure this law envisages for the rural nuclei of all Galicia is: we create a record for the rich here to buy the nuclei in a state of abandonment and do that, which is to come here for a few days of vacation, etc. But this is not revitalizing rural as we want and as we proposed in the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u42	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u43	I don't have any more time. We support the amendments made by the Socialist Party of Galicia and the BNG, except for what has to do with the canon. You, Mr. Castineira, are not in the middle, because you still didn't know the position of the groups when they brought this bill; therefore, you didn't know they were in the middle. You do what they do is they're incomprehensible discrimination, and we do what we say the cannon is applied to both integral rehabilitation and Rexurbe areas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u44	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u45	That's what we said. And therefore in contradiction to the BNG and the Socialist Party, we abstain from them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u46	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Castilian.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President. They say above all that they were upset — it seems — participation — says. A law in which, before you get to know it, before you officially make it official and notify it officially to all the professional and collective schools so that you could claim, they had participation in the project; a preliminary project that has been working on it for two years and participating in all that collective. And they claimed thirteen, yes, they did thirteen, of which, by the way, many of the allegations that they incorporated were accepted, after they had already agreed on a work and a project. Gentlemen, this didn't come like this, it didn't fall, it does the Tatum, it presents it, and there it goes... No, it's normal and it's the way the People's Party works — you don't know how they participate. Now, you were determined that, according to the regulations, everyone had come here again. It's just that all these collectives have participated. Yes, yes, but those six claimed, and the Glaga Culture Council didn't argue because it didn't want to, because it had the opportunity — and it has to be said — not only there, but on the website, which was hung over the internet for the most part at the last moment. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And what gives the feeling is that you, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled your amendments — at least some of them — without consulting properly and without knowing, that is, we present them at large. We have to say no. As proposed by the PP, it must be said that no, that no, and that no, and it seems that the amendments were so. Because, once the amendments are presented, any informant who comes will give his opinion on the law, but the legislators are us. It cannot really affect the modification of what we have tabled and of the amendments tabled there, the text cannot be amended again, ladies and gentlemen. And, therefore, logically comes a representation of the Government, which in this case was the CEO of the Galician Institute of Housing and Solo, who was the Government who introduced the project. Because he's a single government, Mr Bará, to see if he's got a head, a single government. It's not a sum of two or three governments, as you do, that each one goes by his side. I mean, that's the first thing you have to get in the head, and it's a unique government where the different departments work coordinated, where they come together on a commission, on a table, around a table, and they work together. And heritage has been on that table, even if you bother them, they're upset because they want to look... The problem is the following — I have it very clearly — is that they don't know where to take the law and look elsewhere; instead of talking about the law, they talk about it, what else! If your intervention or intervention on the part of you were equal to this law that for anyone else, it's the same thing, they use the same argumentary and it's done. What's the matter? It's the same. Look, I want to thank the Socialist Group for that abstention. I'd like it to be positive. It's true that in the cannon we have an important difference, but well, if only the fundamental difference is in the cannon, I think it's positive. And I also share, for example, the amendment to Article 15.4 which, you know, Mrs. Pierres, I agree with you that it is a much clearer and much better wording. And, therefore, we agree and thank those contributions. We thank them because it becomes clearer and all the more clear in the law is always positive. And we thank, even though it can't be the vote in favour, the abstention, the value it has. I want to keep talking a little bit about the importance of this law, because I believe that citizens, if any of them listen to us, must know that this law is an important tool for rehabilitation and recovery of heritage. A number of instruments are created, some fortaleces — such as the ARIs and the municipal rehabilitation offices — and others are created and given an important boost, such as the Rexurbe areas. The areas of Rexurbe what it is intended to be like a pull, so to speak, that this is the germ in order to be able to rehabilitate above all historical helmets in BIC areas. The Rexurbe centres, which, as I said before, are funded up to 60% with funds from the Galician Union. Within these may be the ZER actions of the Union itself, which are for those of emergency and urgency of action; also with direct actions by the Galician Union, where it finances from the acquisition and purchase of these buildings and, of course, where these financial measures will be an important issue to put in place those historical helmets. The plan to dynamize Rexurbe's own areas is a strategic plan of how not only architecturally to recover buildings, but also how to recover economically and socially those nuclei and these neighborhoods, and of course, for this it is created for example the interest-free Cooperation Fund and the Rexurbe Fund is created and there is important participation or assistance so that in buildings, buildings in these Rexurbe areas can be used for example shelters protected for third-year residences, for active aging programs...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u48	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u49	...apartments for adults — yes, I will finish, Mr President — for students, encourage the implementation of commercial activities, measures for return and real estate, measures for places for social purposes and measures and aids for the drafting of special plans, aid for service networks, aid for acquisition, aid for rent, etc., etc. It's a law that comes with an economic-financial memory, which I see they all liked, because nobody criticized it, and that's a very rare thing that I'd say goes through the different parliaments. And I, who was when I was the Bipartite, didn't see a single law -- and I took part in some -- that I had an economic memory to develop it. This one brings an economic memory in order to carry out those programs.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u50	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u51	And, in fact — if I finish, Mr President — some of the opposition said that a lot of funds were being put in place to help the private, to help the Voitre funds. No, a lot of funds are being invested to recover helmets for the use of all citizens and neighbors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u52	Thank you, Mr. Castineira. The Environmental, Territorial and Living Councilwoman has the floor. [[The Environment, Territorial and Vivenda Counsellor speaks words which are not perceived.]] From the stage? Well, wherever you like, where you feel more comfortable.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank you for your opportunity to speak at the end of this very important debate. For the Greeks and the Greeks today is a key day where this House has been debated and the text of the first Act of Rehabilitation and Regeneration and Urban Renewal will be voted on by our Autonomous Community. And that's precisely why, because of the importance of this text, I want to begin my intervention by thanking all the groups throughout the parliamentary process, the work of the staff of the Council and the work of the other departments of the Galician Union, where he also participated very actively — as could not be otherwise — Cultural Heritage. I am aware of the good weather and predisposition that has been breathing at all times among the members of the second presentation, and that is to thank you. The need and the search for consensus among groups has always been present in order to achieve as complete a text as possible. His approaches undoubtedly enriched the text and gathered different positions and views on urban rehabilitation and regeneration. And you're already part of the processing of a law that aims to promote rehabilitation in our community and recover and rehabilitate the already built one. As you know, during the entire parliamentary period, thirty-eight amendments were introduced to the text proposed by the Government, of which more than seventy-five were finally accepted, between amendments and transactions between the groups, to which we must add that before the parliamentary procedure we had already incorporated into the text 42% of the allegations that had brought us in during the prior consultation and hearing proceedings. One hundred and thirty-three allegations were made, of which fifty-six were admitted, of them thirty-eight in total and sixteen in part. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a law that promotes collaboration and coordination between administrations, as well as simplification in procedures, and at all times strengthens guarantees in the protection of heritage, since it is a text that does not deprotect, but rather on the contrary, but at the same time allows to speed up actions that do not affect particularly protected elements. In addition, it encourages the participation of individuals in rehabilitation and urban regeneration processes, including funding programmes for these actions. It facilitates public intervention, ensuring its permanent guardianship in the actions to be rehabilitated, and includes mechanisms for the owners and owners to carry out their rehabilitation duties, and also includes penalties for those who, despite the various aids, continue to fail. And finally, this law is a tool for municipalities to axillize and give a definitive boost to rehabilitation actions, either through simplified modification of planning or through direct licenses. The Rehabilitation Law is a new tool at the disposal of the municipalities and therefore at the disposal of all the Greeks and Greeks, and so here I want to invite all the municipalities to take the initiative to put into practice rehabilitation, and not only to them, but to all administrations and individuals, as it will be an instrument that will be available to all, and we must put it into practice to promote regeneration, the recovery of what is already built, from what they have left us, a legacy more important to us, and to foster in Galicia, among the Greeks and the Greeks, the culture of rehabilitation, making us the motto that says: there is no greater deprotection than abandonment. Without a doubt, the text that has just been discussed today is one more step in the policies of the Galician Union in the position in the value of our territory, an issue in which we have been working for more than ten years, and a text that will give rise to a positive and beneficial law for Galicia, a law for all the Greeks and the Greeks. Thank you very much for your participation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u54	Thank you, Counselor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, they may have a turn if they consider it, though I think she basically thanked him, but I won't be the one who doesn't give the word for that turn; they have a right if they consider it. Those who want to talk can talk I'd say from the scene. Give a voice to Mr. Sánchez's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u55	Counsellor, thank you for being attentive to the debate, thank you for this laudatory intervention of the law which I suppose will be passed today, but far from us to shut up and consent to this vision that you have given us of this law. You say this is one more step towards putting into value that has done your Government over these years, and that doesn't correspond to reality, because really what we're going to do with this law is make it possible for the whole rural territory, that your policies have made you give up and age, in this way the only measure you have in this law is the sale, the price of balance, of the heritage of so many and so many years, due to the policies of disrepair of your Government over these years. The policies of deprotection of wealth, Counselor, is not agileization. We want you to be quick because there are qualified personnel in Heritage who evacuate reports in time and form and that you don't have to wait for people a year to have a Heritage report, that there are professionals, that there are law enforcement, that don't care about heritage and that they work swiftly for people to have licenses in time, and not like now, that there's no staff and people have to wait a year to do rehabilitation works because you don't function well as an administration. We don't want the traps and shortcuts so they come to invest from outside and destroy our heritage. We don't want the exceptions to excluding and being able to denaturalize our urban cores because you don't want to make an efficient administration that combines the protection of heritage with agility. That's perfectly possible if there's political will, but for investors that you want to attract, they need large areas to be able to invest, because if you want to work with people who already live in those nuclei, you don't need all these functional union measures of buildings or denaturalize urban nuclei, Counsellor. Counsellor, we can't make an estimate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u56	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u57	...positive...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u58	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u59	Well, I think I have the right to rule to intervene and I'm going to finish, but when you talked to the counselor we were quiet and listening.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u60	Yes, yes. It's over now, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u61	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and ladies of the People's Party, I don't think that democracy has understood this yet after so many years. I think they don't like it, they'd rather we applaud the counselor, shut up and tell everything very well and so on. [[Murmurs.]] Well, no. Look, Counsellor, this law uses all the power of the public administration in which you rule with measures of forced expropriation, of forced sale, to divert it to private investors, rather than strengthen the public housing estate. That's the summary of this law...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u62	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u63	...to work for private investors and to speculate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u64	Thank you. Shut up, Counselor, on this matter. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you want to talk? Well, you have a shift, too. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, no, no, the others didn't, they didn't ask, you don't ask now. [[Murmurs.]] You talk.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u65	Yes, thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. I do want to say clearly that Mr. Sánchez I think he does his interpretation of the law, and we can respect him, but I do not share for anything his criticisms, and perhaps he had to teach this lesson in the municipalities where he rules in Marea, because possibly there on the subject of empty dwellings they had much to do; instead of boycotting, perhaps they supported the programs of the Unity of Galicia, for example. So, for example, they could do that and there they might be doing an important job, Mr. Sánchez. The agility of this law is not changed by deprotection, nor much less. In fact, there are municipalities that sometimes take longer to give them the license, and some, supported by groups of En Marea or by different names, take longer to give a license than you say a year, but a sometimes minor license. And he's got nothing to do with Lugo; I don't know what's going on in the Coruña or elsewhere, but in Lugo of course we can be talking about two years for a work license, even if it doesn't have to go to Heritage; imagine if you have to go to Heritage. So, what you're talking about here is that if a council can license — art. 44, Mr. Sánchez — to change a bathtub by a shower or paint a courtyard of lights in front of it, if you can license, whether that council is competent or not, or that has to go to those who seem to be only experts, the technicians of Heritage, because the technicians and the municipalities seem to be less, yes. And Article 40 is direct enforcement measures, but direct application doesn't mean they don't have to go to Inform Heritage, Mr. Sánchez. I think we have to read things; direct licenses is article 44. Therefore, large groupings are not intended, as you say, nor to facilitate expropriations, because for that there is a state law, which is basic and which already collects much of what is referred to in this law and collects itself as to expropriations and forced sales, Mr. Sánchez. There's a lot of basic legislation. The same thing you've sold -- and it's good that you're included in this law, because it explains it -- the right to so much and retract, but that's also part of the basic legislation. You, in fact, proposed in many amendments to replace some article with the full text of state legislation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u66	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u67	So simple. And of course I agree — yes, I will finish, Mr President — with what the Counsellor said, because it is a law that facilitates the recovery of the building and protection and is a law that promotes the culture of rehabilitation and empowers rehabilitation and recovery, not only of historical helmets, but of all urban nuclei, including rural nuclei, because there is no more to see what the Bipartite has done: nothing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u68	Thank you, Mr. Castineira. Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. I think you're perfectly debated. Mr Sánchez, it would really be good to be ruling in some council, which is the policy most attached to citizenship, to see the problems that exist and ultimately to solve, and what we intend to do with this law is to solve the problem of citizenship. Sometimes we are isolated in Parliament a little, but it would be good to be a conciliator, to be mayor of some town, some city, to finally do the re-emergency and finally pick up what is demanding of us by citizenship. And believe me that it's a law that has all legal certainty, believe me that it's a law where everyone participated, the different departments of the Union, the result and the text that we present today, and it's an important day for all the Greeks and the Greeks, and it's an important day for the municipalities as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u70	Thank you, Counselor. We continue, with this legislative text. Debate taken into account by the G.P. de In Marea, of Galician social income
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u71	For the presentation of the bill, you have the floor to Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u72	The first is to regret this delay of the plenary on the matter of the valet, but above all we regret is that the valet had not yet resigned. That's what we regret most. [[Applause]] Today we bring the proposal for admission to the process of a project, a bill. This law that we present is not about whether or not this article, if it can improve the Act of inclusion, but rather the Proposition of the Galician Social Income Law that it presents in Marea has to do with a structural reality, not only Galician, a structural reality at European level and which we have to address at once at the time of this post-crisis — we can call it — is the failure of social protection systems. The 2008 crisis has consolidated in our country and throughout southern Europe an unequal social model and created job insecurity. Since 2014 recovery, this macroeconomic recovery, does not reach the majority of society, especially children and women. Just that year 2014, when the gender pay gap grows again, social inequality in general also increases and there is a greater divergence between urban and rural areas. And in this context, it's when there's a weakening of traditional social protection devices and they're not responding to the new profiles of poverty. This tremendous increase in social inequalities is true since the 1970s, but it has been accentuated by the recession since 2008. There's a global phenomenon of increasing the richest 1%. Our country is not alien and, above all, Junta in the last budgets continues to give tax to that segment of the population. Just by giving some data, between 2013 and 2016 the IGE data confirm that GDP has grown above what it has done with the income of the Greek households. Another fact, which we have always taken, from the study of the salary incomes of the Tax Agency, is that in 2016 the income of a person from the group of those most entering is equivalent to 91 of the group of lower incomes. Or also, in 2018 it must be borne in mind that the only collective that has grown was that of those who perceive less than half of the SMI. That's why in this context, in view of the tax gifts that make Joine the one who has the most, we propose a bill that looks like social inclusion. Because there are structural elements that make us require new instruments of social protection, elements such as the precariousness and volatility of the middle class, or the settlement of labour poverty and the fact that work had lost its role of social integration because of the great precariousness of our country's work. There's an inheritance from poverty and exclusion, and they're transmitting it to social services techniques. And there is, of course, a feminization of poverty with that increase in the wage gap since 2014. But it is also that the Galician Network against Poverty tells us that, between 2016 and 2017, while more than 30,000 men came out of poverty, 29,900 women entered, some more than 29,900 women. In fact, Risga is today a feminized misery benefit, something more than 61% of the people who feel Risga are women. So we, after a very long dialogue with people and professionals of community social services, workers and social workers, risk-perceptive people and social groups—even we had two days with them organized by En Marea in 2018—we determined that Risga is not an effective tool. It's a totally ineffective tool and it doesn't achieve social inclusion, and that's why we need systems of inclusive social protection of minimum income as we propose, with income guarantee income, with income supplemental income. This is very important not only for people who are already excluded, but also for those people or living units who, having little incomes, may fall into exclusion if they are not given an income supplement for a few months. We also, of course, need itineraries of labour integration, which has been just the opposite of what has enabled Risga in the last five years. And this doesn't say in Marea. The European Commission itself and the Council of the European Union include, in recommendations to the Spanish State, the consideration that certain categories of vulnerable households are outside the minimum guaranteed income systems. And the institutions themselves of the European Union are warning of the trend towards inequality in the eurozone, not only by accelerating inequality within the states, but, as was expected, on the other hand, by the gap between the northern and southern states. And that is that the very document you have on the table of the Commission and the Council of Ministers of the EU, the Council of Ministers and Ministers of the European Union, points out, you know, that it is necessary — they have it in a document to work for the next few years — to record more wealth in inheritances and corporate benefits, also the opposite of what Joina does. Well, in this context that the crisis is not a crisis but a scam to increase the resources of those who have the most, the situation is so desperate about the consolidation of a poverty stock market in the European Union that the very institutions that contributed to that scam are warning that minimum income systems do not work, and that states have to improve them. Is it paradoxical? Yeah, it's like the arsonists complain that the mountain burns, it's true. But the situation is so precarious that the concern of the European Union's own elites for the rise of xenophobic movements is such that they are recommending that States improve minimum income systems. We therefore had nothing more to do with resolutions from the European Parliament, the European Social Charter and the recommendations of the Commission and the EU Council. They are not organisms that are revolutionary or subversive like in Marea. Just by taking all those provisions, apart from international legislation, we have made a bill that is framed in those elements. We haven't made a bill that changes society substantially either, but it does improve the situation of the most vulnerable. In fact, from the minimum income systems in the state, from which there are, only the Basque Country at the moment complies with the requirements of the European Social Charter, with a stipulated content that allows us to leave the threshold of poverty. We could mention more studies, but we're going to focus on our country, where we find ourselves with a Risk that only reaches 6.8% of the people who are under the poverty line. That is why we, from the conviction and evidence that the Union has full competences in social assistance, as embodied in the European Social Charter, in human rights, on the basis of European social rights itself, propose this bill; because we have full competences and we have a moral obligation to reverse the tendency that is excluding a part of the population, to make social investment come closer to the middle of the European Union by this context that we say of serious structural crisis at the lowest level of society. I have eight and a half minutes left, and I wanted to devote at least a few corners to talking about risk poverty before explaining the project we propose. Why? Because it's a minimum income — we said — with very low coverage, both at the level of content and the level of inclusion of people at risk of social exclusion. We assume the campaign of social organizations that are asking us to make Risk a real right. They ask, they say, "We live on the continuum poverty of benefits and social benefits, inefficient bureaucratically embedded and in an anachronistic assistanceism." We want to change this with a new generation bill that is inspired by models such as Valencian income, Catalan income or extremitude income — which was recently approved after we had worked on this bill. And it is that, according to the Social Policy Council's own memory, there were 10,307 persons benefiting from Risga in 2017 — representing 0.38% of the population in Greece — compared to 64,023 people with severe material deprivation — that is 2.4% of the population — or still against 7.2% of the population in Greece in severe poverty. Social protection numbers don't match. The graph doesn't know if it looks very well, but the below are people who perceive Risk and the central part are people in severe material deprivation, people who, for example, can't have a proper temperature in their home or can't afford more than a protein meal every two days — they're people, because we talk about people, not numbers. [[Mr Vázquez Verao, from the gallery, displays a chart.]] The upper part is people who are at risk of poverty and exclusion, according to the Arope rate. The numbers of social exclusion in our country don't even give the numbers of social protection. And we didn't want to stop saying that Risga was a bureaucratic torture for all the people who had to ask for it, and that we were moved by workers and social workers who had to ask for forgiveness from the people seeking Risk for all the requirements that the process presents to them, perceived by themselves as administrative violence. There were delays in processing, there was a lack of harmonisation of criteria to grant Risga according to the province, there was no participation of technical staff in social services throughout the process, the requirements were very harsh in relation to people living in infringed, or for people sharing housing — and we will talk about this later — a lack of coordination between Health, Employment, Social Policy and Community social services and, above all, an intentional blockade of the mechanisms which the law itself prescribes for labour inclusion. This made Risga a benefit that penalized employment. The Board took a long time to develop the Risk Regulatory Decree more than five years, five years practically, despite the fact that the Social Inclusion Act, which repeatedly referred to this regulatory development, provided that, in six months after its adoption, there should be a regulatory decree. This was supposed to be done in July 2014. Do you know when it was published? On 1 March 2019. What caused this? For the theoretical objective of that law that was set in 2013, which was the insertion of work — it was the main objective, they read the preamble — because it was precisely the opposite. Because it was five years without Risga's perceived people being able to access a small allowance to push them towards access to employment. And, in this way, some people who found small temporary jobs, or if they were at risk, or lost the risk. And even they preferred not to have a job so they wouldn't have to go back to that bureaucratic wheel of asking for Risga again. So, in this sense, and before we crumble our law, we also call for greater coordination between Community social services and public employment services. Because on February 14, 2019 the Director General of Labour Promotion replied to En Marea that there was still no protocol for coordination between Social Policy and Employment to activate these integration and transition work. So they will be active, but the risk budget will not be increased or coordination improved. And finally — if now yes, finally — before we broke our law we wanted to remember the shame that the Board had been sentenced in a sentence for forcing itself to move to a person who perceived the risk of a home where he lived with someone else. The sentence says, "It would be unfeasible for two persons receiving no benefits to avoid their social exclusion to have had to be excluded from each other so as not to incur excessive exclusion." Well, they had to do it, because the board chased the risk-perceptor people who shared housing because they couldn't afford one rent each and every one of them separately. And he was convicted again, and they forced Junta to compensate this person. So the Board didn't even change the law at this point. In the decree it slightly flexibles the criteria, but it hasn't changed the law. That's why we propose a bill that blinds this, that ensures that people can share their lives by being risk-perceptors. Although we know that what we need to do here is a structural policy of public housing, social rent and care for homeless people. So let's go to our bill. I also leave the groups, if they want, a picture compared to the current Risga here in the gallery. But we're going to try it very briefly, we have three minutes left. What we propose is an effective guaranteed minimum income model, in line with the European Economic and Social Committee, that — literally — "provide a safety net, a last safeguard against poverty", or by the European Parliament's own resolution of October 2017. It would be a guaranteed benefit of subjective rights linked to lack of income. There is no need in certain cases to make a social inclusion project. Why? Because there are families, coexistence units or people who are impoverished who don't need a social inclusion project, but to avoid falling into social exclusion, they need an income supplement. In addition, this would be compatible with other benefits or income from work. On the other hand, our law blinds the right to social inclusion, embodies the accounts and references to the SMI. Faced with the stagnation of Iprem, they refer to the minimum wage, which is updated annually. Thus, the guaranteed income for a person would be 70% of the SMI — it would be 630 euros in 2019—. And supplementary income would consist of complementing those people or family units that do not come to what is considered the poverty threshold, 60% of the family average available. And — I repeat — this does not say what the European Social Charter says to the European institutions. It would be compatible — as we have said — with other income and benefits. The beneficiaries were extended because they could be requested from the age of 18 to the age of 25. There is one of the benefits that is only conditional on income, that does not reach a certain level of income and that complements them is needed. It would also cover persons in illegal residence, persons in situations of administrative irregularity, who at the moment cannot access the Risga although this is a basic social benefit. And let's remember that the Aliens Act has and recognizes the right of persons in situations of administrative irregularities to basic social benefits. For they cannot access the Risk, and exclude this migrant collective from this benefit makes it even more vulnerable, especially women. The criteria for the evaluation of social exclusion were extended, including the precarious employment situation and mental illness. Today the situation of precarious employment is also a risk of social exclusion — as we have said, traditional mechanisms of social protection are not working — and, above all, they give great prominence to the professions of work and social education and to inter-administrative coordination. Because social reports that workers and social workers do must be binding. Because we're not talking about numbers, we're talking about people, and we can't only take technical criteria into account — for example, when a person lives in an infra-vival — but the global social situation, which can only be valued by professionals in social work and social education. On the other hand -- we said -- the right to inclusion is set aside. And all of this, of course, has to have resources. This bill has a final disposition in which we propose it will gradually spread to a minimum of a decent horizon. The ideal would be 2% of GDP, which the European institutions are recommending...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u73	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u74	...—yes—the European movement for a decent income. 2% of GDP would be 1.2 billion euros in our country. But what we propose would be a worthy horizon, which is quadrupling...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u75	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u76	...the risk budget reaches the European average. That's all we'd come up with...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u77	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u78	...of less than 11,000 people present to almost 30,000 people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u79	Thank you very much. You have the floor by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u80	Good morning. In fact, today, Members and Members of the Galego Nationalist Block wear this shirt to denounce the overwhelming situation that the People's Party has under the public media, for the systematic manipulation of the public media in the service of the People's Party. And today we have seen here, in this Parliament, how the People's Party uses the institutions — and this Parliament, in particular — to continue to soften. We have seen with all perplexity how you don't want to condemn the performance of the people's valet, which is proven to be the valet of the People's Party. And this attitude of the People's Party is causing irreparable damage to democracy and to the perception that the Greeks and Greeks of their institutions have. [[Applause]] Presented here today at Marea this bill, and I, before I stand on it, want to make a series of reflections. The first is that it is evidence that, from the beginning of this last crisis, the conditions of material existence of most of the non-rich population have done nothing but worse. There are a lot of data that corroborate it: poor wages, work hours, job insecurity, working conditions and general conditions for workers who have contracts have wages below the poverty line, and an increase in the percentage of poor people. And the statistics, the data, are available to anyone who wants to see them, to those who don't want to hide them in a drawer. We can start with the Arope Report. With regard to Galicia, indeed, the last report determines that there are a total of 612,000 people, who account for 22.6% of the population in Greece, at risk of poverty and exclusion; that economic recovery is not reaching the most vulnerable people decisively; that this economic recovery is particularly detrimental to women; that people with severe material deprivation are increasing — 7.1% of the population in Greece live in severe poverty, with incomes of less than EUR 355 per month — and that the Arope rate in single-parent homes is very worrying. We can also refer to what the ESC says in its last report, which says that inequality and poverty persist in Galicia despite economic recovery. And you warn me that there has not been the expected improvement for the most impoverished Greeks by the crisis and alerted that inequality, precarious employment and low wages persist in Galicia. While the community's GDP already exceeds GDP before the crisis, the conditions of a very important part of the population do not improve. And it recommends a model of more inclusive growth, with fewer inequalities and with a distribution of the most equitable wealth. And then, after knowing this data of poverty, we should also ask ourselves the question of how the rich were in these ten years since the beginning of the crisis. And often it's not easy to answer this question, because we do have a lot of reports about what the poverty situation is about, but we have a lot less about what the wealth situation is about; maybe because of this attempt to make us believe that this poverty situation is inevitable, that it's something that reaches many people and that, therefore, it's not possible to change that frame and it's not possible to allocate enough resources to change the frame. But we can go to the data. In Galicia, between 2015 and 2016 — only in one year — the number of millionaires increased by 8%, more than 50 people entered that range of people with more than 1 million euros of income — in just one year. And those nearly 8,000 Welsh and Welsh claiming to have more than 1 million euros have a joint estate of almost 40,000 million euros, about 66% of the German GDP. So we're not talking about lack of resources, we're talking about poor redistribution of resources, that's the point of the matter and where we never want to take the debates. We can go worldwide and, for example, Oxfam determines that the wealth of billionaires increased by $90 billion last year, that 26 people own the same wealth as 3,800 million poor people in the world. That is, the richest 1% of the world's population owns more wealth than the rest of the planet. That's the situation. Maybe we can go to the Spanish State, where in 2017 the rich won more than in any other year of human history. We can talk about the report of the Tax Agency, which does an analysis ranging from 2007 to 2016, which can be summed up in that in 2016 579 people who had more than 30 million euros of assets, 150% more than in 2007. We can continue to grow data of what is the situation of accumulation of wealth in a few hands while most of the population is increasingly resource-depleted, increasingly impoverished by a tremendous imbalance in the distribution of wealth. And while, for example, in the Spanish state, this situation was given to increase wealth in a few hands, what was done at the legislative level? Well, to reduce the salary of officials and fiscal measures favourable to a minority, or labour reforms aimed at extracting more resources from the working population, in the face of the poorest. And we have to make a comparison. These data that I have just given to those 579 people who accumulate this ingenious heritage are more insulting if we compare it with the spending of pensions in that same year was 139,647 million, or that of unemployment benefits 17,400 million, i.e. the comparison between what they have less than 600 people and what they mean the pensions of the entire Spanish State, or what they pay for unemployment benefits, which is really much lower. And, of course, in this context there should be a question of what measures are taken by governments. Of course, fiscal measures in favour of that richest and very unfavourable population, miserable subsidies, for the poor. Subsidies that are of a very different kind. We can talk about pension supplements, non-contributory minimums, active incomes for inclusion, unemployment benefits or care pensions, with, of course, very demanding that they do not solve absolutely the situation of people who have to resort to them. Of course, at the BNG we advocate the need for a model change, the need for an income so that people can live a decent life, implement a minimum vital income with work insertion programs for all people who don't cover any kind of economic benefit, a policy, in short, that will not continue to favour the richest majority. Political and economic priorities cannot be focused on giving GDP data, which is a tremendously disturbing fact of what reality is. Because what we had to look at is whether that economic growth and the exit of the crisis should be measured by the increase in per capita income of most of the population, not by average, that we know it's a torturing data. Of course, we argue that inequalities are not inevitable, but that it is a political choice and it is not — I insist — a problem of resources, but of redistribution. That is why we are going to vote in favour of taking into account this bill tabled by En Marea. But if we approve it, then we will present amendments to amend some aspects that we consider to be better, such as the problem of overbureaucracy. Indeed, this administrative violence makes it a real opposition for many people to be able to access them, who need real management to their service in order to take all the necessary roles in order to access these incomes — I insist — in many cases tremendously demanding. And we think there's a premeditated design to be a true career of obstacles, often even humiliating, for people who have to ask for help. We also believe that it leaves too many aspects for subsequent regulatory developments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u81	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u82	And also a matter of concern to us is the economic issue. Galicia has, indeed, powers, but resources have the state. Of course, we believe...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u83	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u84	...that we have to go to a model change where Galicia also raises taxes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u85	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u86	...to be able to decide from here what our priorities are. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u87	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. We welcome students from the 2nd ESO of the ICC of Cova Terreña, of Baiona. Good morning, and thank you for coming with us in this session. You have the floor, by the Galician Socialist Group, Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u88	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. I also welcome the student and the teacher who accompany us today on behalf of the Socialist Group. We are now going to support the consideration of this bill because, in the face of Mr Feijóo's poverty-fighting policies, which are characterized by assistance, by not focusing on the causes of this terrible poverty, without social security and which are not even respectful of the vital projects of people, citizens and citizens of this country, we socialists, are committed to the need to turn and be based on three fundamental elements: social justice, the rights of citizenship and, above all, human dignity. [[Applause]] These three engines are the ones that are leading to legislate in those autonomous communities in which we rule. Here are first examples of Extreme and also Valencia, through that Valencian income of inclusion. As I am also the driving force behind the policies of the government of Mr. Pedro Sánchez, the engine for these ten months of government. Because, ladies and gentlemen, more was done in the fight against poverty in this country in the government of Pedro Sánchez in ten months than Mr Feijóo's government did in ten years. [[Applause]] One of the first steps they took was the creation of the high commissioner in the fight against child poverty, who comes across fighting one of the most unjust and harshest expressions of inequality and precarious work. In the middle of summer we even worry about the food security of those children who were at risk of social exclusion and had the school dining rooms closed. Yes, we speak of 1,300 children in this autonomous community who have benefited from this measure. We multiply by two the dependent child benefit. Since 1 April, the families, the Greeks and the Greeks have also received €588 per dependent child, a benefit that had been paralysed and has not increased since 2002. But above all, we act on the causes to prevent labour poverty, to increase the standard of living of the worst-paid people, such as the women of Greece — 2 out of 5 despite having a job, are at risk of social exclusion; and in our youth, despite having a job contract, 20% is also at risk of poverty. And we have done so by approving the largest increase in the minimum inter-professional wage since 1977, a measure which has affected, which is already affecting more than 70,000 people in our autonomous community. [[Applause]] In the meantime, the People's Party does what it does is to stand against this rise of the minimum wage, to deny these people — not that they do not arrive at the end of the month but that on many occasions they don't even start the month — a raise of the wage that is very necessary. They even made an economic guru that is against the existence of the minimum wage in our country, which defends the elimination of it, the deprotection of the families of the Greeks and the Greeks. They are the same, ladies and gentlemen, who voted against the most social budgets in this country's history. They voted 'no' for the recovery of the allowance for over 52 years, which affects more than 5,000 Welsh and Welsh; at the rise of almost 60% in the dependency contributions — with more than 60,000 dependent people in our country—; at a reduction in university fees and an increase in scholarships to more than 50,000 students in this autonomous community; at the elimination of pharmaceutical pay to more than 500,000 pensioners; even to a social measure that was the first time taken, to give the Autonomous Communities economic resources to accommodate unaccompanied minors, although in Galicia we received little more than 1%. [[Applause]] They came here EUR 500,000 for these minors too, 137 million for social rent and a shock plan against youth unemployment. All of this was cast with the votes against the People's Party. And the Galician People's Party, every time Mr. Married screams against social improvements... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Some of the members of the People's Party who passed yesterday don't call it "bramar". Maybe it doesn't call for a party to insult the memory, Madam, of many of my colleagues and colleagues. Because, look, I'm going to say this, Madam: they're everyone's, they're all Democrats. Because the Socialists respect — we always scrupulously — all Democrats, they were from the political party that they were, and from their party as well. The only thing we asked of the People's Party is about all the comrades and comrades we had to bury for a few years and decades of the darkest history of our country. I ask you to respect them and their families, Madam. [[Applause]] Meanwhile, you kept the fight against poverty here as well. I know the CIS went out, but please let me finish. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I know you're nervous, but let me finish, please. [[Murmurs.]] During these harsh years of economic crisis, after the consolidation of inequalities, Risga was unable to respond to the new profiles of labour poverty, people who did not enter the minimum to live with dignity but could not access these aids either. The causes: mismanagement, dislocation, incompetence of a government that needed three advisors and five years to bring out a decree for the development of a law that had adapted to people's needs at that time. So far, no one — I don't know if the People's Party Member, who is very talkative today, has been able to explain to us here in the gallery why this development decree took almost five years. It wasn't that they were not able to respond, is that no one has assumed political responsibilities for the problems that have arisen over all these years, for turning the Risk processing into a real bureaucratic sudoku, for miscoordination between administrations, for a failure of homogeneity between resolutions in territorial areas; all that is covered with instructions and with restrictive and opaque interpretations but, gentlemen, that always had the same consequence: the result has always been the total and absolute deprotection of those people who needed it most. Finally, they publish a decree that won't even improve the risk. [[Applause]] I don't have much time. It would be quite a surprise that today the People's Party had allowed this bill to be processed. It's an ideological matter. Ideology is to choose between charity and solidarity, between welfare policies and social inclusion policies. Ideology is to differentiate between the black Thursdays of the board of directors of the board these ten years from the social Fridays of these ten months of the Council of Ministers. Ladies and gentlemen, from April 28 we will continue to work from the Government of Spain and put in place many measures to continue to fight poverty in our country. Among them, we will implement a vital minimum income that will give economic resources to more than 70,000 Greeks and Greeks directed to homes without income in situations of need, whatever the cause — a non-contributory benefit of Social Security. But, in any case, our policies, which will continue to be made from the socialist councils as well as from May, what we do in the autonomous communities and, of course, also those of the Spanish Government, will continue to be marked by three questions, by three axes, by three engines that we consider to be fundamental: social justice, the rights of citizenship and, above all, essentially, human dignity. And thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u90	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Blanco, if Pedro Sánchez respected the socialists murdered by ETA, then he wouldn't negotiate with Mr. Otegi. That's what we consider, what we consider from our group. [[Murmurs.]] Because you come here and say some things you might need to check. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You have spoken very little about the initiative presented by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea today. It seems they came here more to make a campaign rally of general elections than to talk about social income. It seems that, as your leader does not go to public debates, the rest of the candidates, or you, because you have to come here to beg. [[Murmurs.]] Well, if you think so, we're going to take a position on the initiative of the Parliamentary Group of Tide. What is curious is that in December of last year, In Marea, the same group that today brings this bill here, presented in plenary a non-law proposal urging Junta to develop a study on the financing and implementation of universal basic income in Galicia. And here it is to explain what the universal basic income that the En Marea Group was asking for in December of last year. Well, it's an income for all citizens without distinction between citizens who have resources or citizens who have no resources; citizens who have employment or who have no employment, housing or housing. I mean, it's an income for all citizens because of the simple fact of being a citizen. Well, today at Marea, it changes its approach and presents a bill that forgets universal basic income and now what they propose is a social income. And what is a social income? For it's an income for people who lack resources, or that their resources are not enough to meet basic needs, which in Galicia has been Risga, the income of social inclusion. It's not the first time they change criteria. They've done it before. Specifically, in the European elections of the year 2014, Podemos' proposal for these European elections was universal basic income, an income paid unconditionally to the entire population. By the way — as long as they criticize him — it is also paid for the great fortunes. In the general elections of the year 2016 We can march back, and eliminate from your program the universal basic income to bet on a guaranteed basic income, an income for those households without modulated income depending on the number of people living in that home. It comes in October 2018 and they sign the pact of state budgets Pedro Sánchez and Pablo Iglesias, and both forget not only the universal basic income, but they also forget the guaranteed basic income. Now the general elections of the year 2019 and, surprise!, We can again include in your electoral program the basic guaranteed income for households without resources according to the members of the family unit and compatible with income for work, which in Galicia is being Risga, the income for social integration. Well, by the way, they change. Who would pay this rent? Well, great fortunes. Now they don't charge their rents anymore but they're the ones who're going to pay. Not a single mention of that "soldier for everyone." [[Applause]] Therefore, we are in doubt, because when you do your electoral programs, they defend universal income or social income. But when you have the opportunity to rule and sign a government program, what you do is you don't make a single mention of that social income. In Galicia today, the tides present this bill claiming that the new Risga is totally ineffective and insufficient. Well, as a result of the consensus and the nearness of social entities working in the field of social inclusion, the board approved the new Risga decree on January 31st. Fourteen days after approving this new Risga, In Marea presents this initiative — twenty-eight days before this new Risga came into force —. It ensures that it is totally ineffective and inefficient even before its entry into force. Today we want to explain, once again, the improvements that this new Risk entails. First, there will be a significant increase in benefits, which are received by more than 10,000 Welsh and Welsh people; in order to access the Risga it is no longer necessary to be unemployed, because it will be compatible and compatible with income from a job; there will be two new steps: apart from the family and personal tranche, the integration process for those who commit themselves to a socio-laboral insertion itinerary — which will receive a supplement of EUR 188 for twelve months, extendable to six months — and the transition to employment stage, which is an incentive for those who find a job, which will receive a transition supplement for six months. Now, to calculate the risk, they'll only calculate the income they actually cover, not those they have the right to, but they're not making cash. In addition, the decree enables Risga to be compatible with the social inclusion aids and opens the door to which two family units live in the same home that feel at Risk — both can receive the rental supplement. For social inclusion aids, the requirement of legal residence is deleted. In short, this new Risk becomes a real job insertion tool, in line with the recommendations made by the European Commission. And we can talk about the differences between the new Risga and the social income presented by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. The new Risga is a work integration tool, and the social income presented by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea aims to establish a benefit without needing to comply with a socio-laborative inclusion plan. Of course, these are not the recommendations of the European Union, and of course the People's Party believes that employment is the best tool against social exclusion. You don't seem to be interested in people who cover that income going along a route until they find a job. On the other hand, you say resources are scarce. You are talking, as a great novelty, that a family unit, of six or more people, with its proposal would charge 110% of the minimum interprofessional wage — we are talking about approximately EUR 990 —. Well, check it out because in that case what you're talking about, with the new Risga, with 135 percent of the IPREM, with the supplement to the rent and with the insertion supplement, that same family unit would charge €994.99. So it's very controversial the graph that you present today with that new social income. Look, today the investment in Galicia in Risga is the biggest in history, reaching a total of 64.4 million euros. And, of course, we have to hear the PSOE say that the government of Pedro Sánchez was the most social government, which did more in a few months than the Government of the People's Party in ten years. Well, Mr. Sánchez's budgets for Galicia were not social, they were antisocial, antisocial, assumptions that discriminated against the Greeks. You know that and you come here to boast not only of Mr. Sánchez's policies, but also of his assumptions for Galicia. Are those really those assumptions that discriminate against Galicia to improve the risk? Will they help families who need it most? Did they serve to care for people in situations of social exclusion? Of course, we don't think so. What will Pedro Sánchez's government do with those 125 million surpluses from Galicia who want to spend on health care, education and social policies? Will you allow it? What's going to happen? [[Murmurs.]] Because it's the lowest figure in the last seventeen years of budgets...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u91	Quiet, please! This is a political debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u92	Here it seems you can only speak if we're going to say that Pedro Sánchez "is good for Galicia" and amends all the policies of the Socialist Party. We think that this is not the case, and that all citizens will not think the same as you, who will not think the same as you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u93	Quiet. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u94	Look, they assume social Fridays, but when they rule, they don't do anything at all. Where's that social income on your schedule? It doesn't appear in the Socialist Party program. Where is that social income in the socialist government budgets? He's not, he's not! What you're looking at is a vital minimum income, which has absolutely nothing to do with what In Marea presents. But, of course, you're in very good tune lately with the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. Of course, we're not going to accept this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Replica from the author group of the bill. You have the floor to Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u96	We well know that in electoral time, substantive debates are difficult, but we're going to try. We, of course, with this bill, what we want is an inclusive and non-assisual model, and giving prominence to the professionals of work and social education. Because we're on these inclusion routes, but we think it's necessary to have some income supplement mechanism for people and living units that don't need a job inclusion or are in exclusion, just so they don't fall into that exclusion. That's a novelty to this law and we're proud to have it presented like this. And then we're sure that there's no change in the minimum income system in our country, that there's also a need to make changes both at European and state level. It's true that if we can be in tune with the Socialist Party and the Tide, but we're not in tune at all. For example, it would also be necessary to repeal labour reform in order to end precisely that precarious work. But finally, going to the issues that concern us, which are the competences we have here, in our country, what we present in December was not asking for universal basic income to be implanted in Galicia, because we have no competences. We asked for a study. And we have already pointed out that this study on universal basic income would serve to have a social map that would allow us to determine which families, which units of coexistence, or which people need an income supplement or which they need that minimum guaranteed income. We're asking for a social map. And we're in the universal basic income model, and so we present it in our European 2019 program. You noted that in 2014 Marea was not presented to the elections. But it's something much more complex, of course, than the simplification you've pointed out here about the universal basic income. But now we're talking about the skills we have as Together, the skills we have to improve a minimum income system to make it a real system that guarantees social inclusion. Because, yes, they assume of the decree, but it was five years without the inclusion and transition mechanisms being activated, five years in which to charge the Risk penalized work, in which we have sent letters from the bank people who perceived Risk that, by doing a small job of a hundred and peak euros, they would discount them from the Risk. That's not inclusion, that's persecution of excluded people. Just like persecution what they did to those who shared housing. The decree makes some of these criteria flexible, but you didn't include them in the law, you didn't give them the rank of law. And they don't consider the bottom line either, which is that employment doesn't guarantee social inclusion today. We need rents, rent models, like this law, that go one step further, advanced models. They are inspired — and we do not turn away, we do not hide it — by those models that were approved both in Valencia and in Extremes, or in Catalonia. Because we need new models that aren't only solved by a decree. Above all, they are not resolved if the budget is not increased. Why did they activate the steps of insertion and work transition, and how much did the budget increase? Have you made any credit changes already? Sky! So we also need to formulate, as we do, a plan to spread this income, a true model of decent minimum income that, at least, places us at European levels. I used to say before it's to multiply by four the current risk budget. It's not a huge expansion either. The reality is that who is analyzing this at European level is talking about 2% of GDP. We would need more than 1.2 billion euros to really deal with the dimension of poverty and exclusion that is leaving the call... I don't know... recovery, no, but "poscrisis" in our country. And it doesn't come up with the skills we have on the board, sure. For us, the decree -- I don't know what else to say -- is late, it's insufficient, it doesn't correct risk deficiencies, it makes it a provision that requires all people, regardless of their condition, to meet an inclusion itinerary, even if there are people -- I repeat -- and coexistence units that don't need that inclusion itinerary, they just need a punctual income supplement to precisely not fall into social exclusion. We once again insist on admitting the process of this bill — which would also allow for improving the articulation at some points — would reduce bureaucracy; the right to income would be subject to the simple fact of not having sufficient income, as the European Social Charter marks; it would include people with effective residence and not only legal residence; it would also have supplements in the form of social assistance — which you have made clear that part when you calculated the benefit—; it would prevent impoverished families from falling into a process of social exclusion; it would increase coordination between employment services and community social services; it would expand the coverage of people who need it, especially monomantial families — it has been mentioned here — that they are the large excluded families of this crisis; it would also — forget — energize local economies, because it is studied that the types of income well-equipped directly and positively in the real economy — above all the Valencian income it has calculated the University of Valencia which would provide, by means, by providing the real cost, the euro;
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u97	Silence! Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u98	This is being debated at the European Union level, at the level of social movements, at the level of the European institutions themselves, which, I repeat, were the ones which caused much of the worst elements of the crisis...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u99	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u100	...but now they're realizing that the situation is so dramatic that we need new models of social inclusion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u101	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u102	We shall proceed to the vote. [[Mr. Fernández Leiceaga asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Leicega? What do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u103	In accordance with Article 76.3.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u104	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u105	There was a reference from the spokesperson for the People's Party that compromises the decoration and dignity of our group and that I would ask you to withdraw. I would expressly ask you to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u106	I, as far as I understand here, believe that what we should do for all groups — I believe, is my opinion — is to be especially careful when we handle the language about the victims of terrorism. Everybody! [[Murmurs.]] That's what I'm asking. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Here was a crossing, and in that sense I think it's unpleasant. So what I'm asking is that you handle that. [[Murmurs.]] I know this is complicated and sometimes words are used that even bother me. And yet, what do you want me to say? Well, when they're associated, finally, Mr. Leicega. [[Mr. Fernández Leiceaga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I don't know if you want to remove those words. The honourable lady can say that. But I ask them, please, that we all handle that language, because of the respect that the victims of terrorism must have. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u107	Yes, if they've bothered my words, I'll take them back. But I would also like, with regard to all the citizens of Spain, that Mr. Pedro Sanchez did not need Otegi's support.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u108	Thank you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's it, it's a political opinion. Please! [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. I ask them, please, that we handle everyone and take care of the language in that sense. [[Murmurs.]] Let's vote. Close the doors, please. We begin by voting for the Ditam issued by Commission 2nd... [[Murmurs.]] Silence, please, if not, we don't know what we're going to vote on later! They ask that some amendments be voted on separately, so I want them to be careful. We voted for the Ditam issued by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the draft law on rehabilitation and urban regeneration and renewal of Galicia. The amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego 7, 9 and 35 — which are to be voted on separately — are called for. Is this correct? Yes, Mr. Sánchez? 7, 9 and 35? [[Pause.]] Let's see, it could be a block with 7 and 9 and another block with 35. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Well, then we voted first of all on Amendments 7 and 9 to the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. Vote on Amendments Nos 7 and 9 to the G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego au Ditame, issued by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the draft law on rehabilitation and urban regeneration and renewal of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 38; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. These two amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u109	We now vote on Amendment 35. Amendment 35 to the G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego au Ditame, issued by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the draft law on rehabilitation and urban regeneration and renewal of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 38; abstentions, 12. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u110	We now vote for the rest of the amendments of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Galego Nationalist Block, except 7, 9 and 35, to Ditam, issued by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the draft law on rehabilitation and urban regeneration and renewal of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u111	We are now voting on amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Parliamentary Group of En Marea calls for amendments 24 and 118 to 139 to be voted separately. So can we vote all this together? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We voted all this together; in particular, on 24 and the amendments from 118 to 139. Vote on Amendments Nos 24 and 118 to 139 G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia to Ditame, issued by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the draft law on rehabilitation and urban regeneration and renewal of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 38; abstentions, 12. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u112	We now vote for the rest of the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Socialists of Galicia, except 24 and 118 to 139, to Ditam, issued by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the draft law of rehabilitation and urban regeneration and renewal of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u113	We are now voting on amendments by the En Marea Parliamentary Group, in which two blocks are requested separately. The first block is Amendment Nos 24, 25, 27, 42 and 43. We voted for this amendment block. Vote on Amendments 24, 25, 27, 42 and 43 G.P. From Marea to Ditam, issued by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the draft law on rehabilitation and urban regeneration and renewal of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 38; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u114	And now we are voting on the other block, which is the amendment from 87 to 91. Vote on Amendments Nos 87 to 91 of the G.P. From Marea to Ditam, issued by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the draft law on rehabilitation and urban regeneration and renewal of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 12; votes against, 38; abstentions, 20. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u115	And now we are voting on the rest of the amendments of the En Marea Parliamentary Group. Voting G.P. amendments. In Marea, except those already voted, to Ditame, issued by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the draft law on rehabilitation and urban regeneration and renewal of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u116	And now we must vote on the Commission's ruling with the amendments incorporated, if that is the case. Ditame's vote, issued by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the draft law on rehabilitation and urban regeneration and renewal of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; votes against, 18; abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. The Commission's ruling is therefore adopted and, consequently, the draft law on rehabilitation and urban regeneration and renewal in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u117	We are now voting on the proposal for a law from the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea on the basis of Greek social income. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. De In Marea, of Galician social income. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. Consequently, the consideration of this bill is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u118	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. We continue with agenda item 2. Mr Economie, Employment and Industry, on his own request, said that the situation which is going through the industry should be reported.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u119	To formalize this appearance, the Councillor for Economics, Employment and Industry, Fr Francisco Conde López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Six months ago he appeared in this chamber to address the situation of Alcoa in Galicia after it was known that multinationals were planning to close their factories in Coruña and Avilés. I pretend: six months ago, and there's not yet a solution that guarantees the continuity of these installations or an electrical framework that guarantees a stable and competitive price for the set of electrointensive companies. My appearance in this parliament therefore has two tasks: firstly, to make a realistic diagnosis of the situation that is going through the Welsh industry, derived from these last months of heights in national politics, but also to counter to this scenario the potential that in recent years is showing the industrial sector in Galicia after a decade of effort to get out of the deep crisis we were in. In this context, I would like to explain to you the action of the Galician Council, favouring the business initiative so that you can continue to develop here, in Galicia, with the maximum guarantees, and the need to achieve a unanimous response from this parliament in defense of our industry and in defense of the nearly one hundred and seventy thousand men and women working in it. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the support of politics is to bet on stability, solvency and competitiveness to continue to grow, as we have done in the last five years, taking the right steps to manage the slowdown that is focused on the economy. In a report by the consultant KPMG and the CEO himself published last March, it is recalled that Spanish directors and entrepreneurs have about the current economic situation and their business expectations. The first observation we've found is that almost half of those who participated in the Vatican survey that the Spanish economy is going to deteriorate in the next 12 months. The second observation is that eighty-three percent marks political uncertainty as one of the main threats of the Spanish economy this year. However -- it's true -- there's reason to have moderate optimism, because this report concludes that one in both companies plans to increase investment and eight in ten plans to maintain or increase their staff frame with the focus on improving processes, digital transformation, innovation and their talent bet. These are precisely the basis on which Galicia is sitting its policy in favour of the economy, industry and employment. A policy that is able to manage problems, rectify when necessary, and weighs on the scope of each decision, always with the objective of fixing productive tissue and building a new model of value that looks at the future, with a planned and responsible policy. Ladies and gentlemen, this puts us today in a position to claim that the one hundred and twenty-five million euros of surplus that we arrived in 2018 for being a community fulfilling the cost rule, the debt and the deficit. It puts us in a position to claim that we are between the first two communities in relation to the investor effort and that we are the first community to pay their bills faster. It also puts us in a position to claim that we have more simplification in administrative procedures, more ease in access to business soil and more tax incentives, thanks to the Entrepreneurship Act and the Entrepreneurship Act, thanks also to the hundred and twenty-one entrepreneurial councils that have joined in this regard through the agreement signed between the Galician Union and the Fegamp, and thanks to the priority business initiatives, which can be seen reduced their processing deadlines by half since January 2019. And it finally puts us in a position to claim that we have achieved a growth around three percent in the last four years, that unemployment had been at pre-crisis levels, that we would recover more than 100,000 memberships of Social Security to overcome again the million affiliates, that per capita GDP had grown almost about 10 percent since the year 2009 and that we would accumulate successive export records until last year 2018 the twenty-two billion euros. I think these data are outlines that illustrate how Galicia has been articulating its own economic model and its own industrial model, learning to live together and competing in more demanding scenarios than in the past. A good model of doing Welsh where companies, entrepreneurs and workers are their best exponents, and a good model of doing Welsh where the Galician Union is contributing, taking measures to accompany business and employment in the community, always working together with universities, technology centers and the own productive fabric. A joint work that is helping to boost digital transformation in our industry. Galicia was one of the first autonomous communities to count on an Industry 4.0 agenda in Spain, an agenda that I have already proposed for the deployment of sixty measures to anticipate changes in the industrial model of the future, with outstanding programs such as Industry 4.0 projects driven by clusters, business factory in the automotive sector, in the aeronautics and in the agri-food sector, or aid to individual or collective projects for the digitization of our productive fabric. All these programmes are currently mobilising over seventy-fifty million euros and allowing Galicia to be within the autonomous communities that are most conducive to boosting Industry 4.0. A common job, ladies and gentlemen, which is also contributing to boosting innovation in our industry. We have a strategy of smart specialization that has mobilised nine hundred million euros in nearly one thousand nine hundred projects, with pioneering projects in support of business R & D, such as smart factory aids so that PSA, Finsa, Cupa and Copo projects can have their development in Galicia, or the thirty-nine partnerships and joint innovation units in collaboration between companies and their own knowledge centres. Projects joined by the innovative Talent 2021 program to generate, retain and attract thousands of professionals to Galicia for R+D+i activities. A joint work, thirdly, which is helping to boost the financing of our industry. The premise is that no initiative in Galicia is left in the drawer. For this reason, financial support for the German business fabric has enabled the mobilization of about €2,200 million since 2014 in more than ten thousand projects, and that is why we have this year 2019 a new funding plan to support another 80,000 projects aimed at strengthening Industry 4.0 and innovation. A joint work that is helping to boost employment and training in our industry. We are increasing the budget for active employment policies until it reaches EUR 200 and EUR 5 million. But the most important thing, ladies and gentlemen, is that for the first time in Galicia, we are moving and promoting training as much as businesses need. It's the companies that are designing and the ones that are setting up their own training programs, allowing to develop and approve new specialties in Galicia that have national scope. And also, through the Galicia Employment program, we are favoring the recruitment of women, boys and girls, long-term unemployed and people at risk of exclusion or with different abilities. A common job, ladies and gentlemen, with which we also want to help businesses so that they can face new challenges like Brexit, because, as you know, we are facing a very delicate situation. So we've opened a digital platform so that any Galician company can advise itself individually and we've also created an office to help design contingency plans. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, a joint work: a joint work of the administration, of the knowledge centres and of the productive tissue that is being translated into new investments and a new business fabric. And let us refer to the facts: PSA Peugeot-Citroën-Opel is investing in Galicia six hundred billion euros to place Vigo in the vanguard of the manufacture of smart vehicles; Benteller is investing twenty million euros in Mos to open a second factory, which will also include a specific centre of the smart factory that will work for the whole group at European level; Finsa is investing seventy and five million euros in Santiago for the renewal of its factories; TVves, twenty and three million euros to improve its processes; Bandalux, three million euros to build new installations in Santiago; twenty and five million euros of Euros will work for the whole group at European level; Finsa is investing seventy billion euros in Delta Vigo is investing seventy billion euros in Santiago for the renovation of its new installations in Nigeria; EUR 50 billion euros are allocated to investments in Rozazas by Boeing, Babcockck and Indra; Star Galicia is expanding its new facilities to build new installations in Santiago in Coruña, with a hundred million euros; Delta billion billion billion in Euro; Curtis, and Euro; other 100 billion in Euro; Red, and Euro; Red, and Euros, and Euro; Green’s are developing a hundred billion in Euros in Europe, and Euro; and Euro; and Euro; and Euros in Europe in Europe in developing a hundred in Euros in Euros in Europe in Europe in Europe, and Euro; and Euro; and Euro; and Euro; and Euro; and Euro; and Euros in Europe in Europe in Europe in Europe in Europe, and Euro; and Euro; and Euro; and Euros in Europe in Europe, and Euros in developing, and Euros., and Euro; and Euros in developing from by by by by developing Europeans in Europe in Europe in Europe in Europe in Europe in Europe in Europe, and Euros; and Euros; and Euros in Europe, and Euros. and Euros, and Euros. by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by developing in the billion, and Euros in Europe, and Euros in billion in billion in. and Euros in. and Euros in in I am, ladies and gentlemen, some examples that add more than two billion euros to investments that are currently running in Galicia to strengthen our industrial fabric. [[Applause]] Ultimately, good policy allows us to develop a favourable climate for these investments to develop in Galicia and for Galicia to be able to take advantage of all the potentials offered by the emerging sectors, and also knowing how to adapt traditional industries and bet on their innovation and diversification. So, ladies and gentlemen, I think Galicia may be proud of its business fabric, its entrepreneurs and its workers. Galicia may be proud of its automotive sector, a national and international reference that accounts for fourteen percent of the total production of vehicles in Spain and where more than a hundred companies are exporting products and services. And it will continue to grow in its jobs, because PSA Peugeot-Citroën-Opel plans to reach in 2021 the historical record of production thanks to its two new models and also the arrival of Toyota. Galicia may be proud of its naval sector, because the Greek shipyards made fifteen new contracts in 2018, the best result in ten years and more than six out of every ten in the state. The sector closed the year 2018 with thirty contracts in force, with a turnover of two billion euros, to which we must add the planned investments for the construction of new frigates by Navantia, with an investment in the next four billion euros. But Galicia can also be proud of the aeronautical deployment: we're turning an aerodrome without use within Lugo into an industrial pole that bets on innovation, with the most advanced control tower technologically across Europe. A pioneering initiative of fifty agents, between multinationals, knowledge centres and also, ladies and gentlemen, small and medium-sized companies in Greece, which are mobilizing one hundred and sixty million euros and developing thirty-five R & D projects so that Galicia today is already a focus of attention in the field of unmanned aircraft, and where more than two hundred jobs have already been generated, and will reach five hundred. Galicia can be proud of its agri-food industry: two thousand four hundred companies, twenty-seven thousand jobs and a 7.3 percent contribution from the gross domestic product of our community; synonymous with quality, a synonym for vanguard and a synonym for an industry that is betting on transformation and added value in our country. Galicia can also be proud of its biotechnology: Galicia is the third most entrepreneurial community in the country, welcomes about nine percent of Spanish companies and is a good reflection of the excellence of this sector, which reaches forty percent of the financing operations carried out in Spain. And Galicia can be proud of its forest sector: despite the far-sighted decision of the Government of Pedro Sánchez on the continuity of Ence, the sector today has over 3,000 companies covering the entire chain of value, with seventy thousand people working directly and indirectly in the sector and with six hundred and eighty thousand forest owners, of whom eighty thousand regularly cut wood. It is a sector which is an essential economic piar, which accounts for two billion euros and is currently the ninth forest power at European level. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia may be proud of its business fabric and industry. All this effort ratifys the commitment and value of the Welsh industry, our entrepreneurs and their workers, and, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, all this effort of all these years cannot be taken to the ground in just ten months. That is what the current Government of Spain is doing: putting obstacles to business activity in Spain and, in particular, in Galicia. Galicia is a victim of a deaf policy and a blind policy that is exercised from Madrid by the Socialist Party and by all the parliamentary groups that support it; a deaf policy that ignores the warnings of slowness that make different voices. And I draw the attention of Members, because this policy means that the Government is not listening to the Banco de España and the Government is not listening to the Independent Authority of Tax Responsibility: the Bank of Spain has warned that the social measures that are taking the Government of Pedro Sánchez will be responsible for the growth of the gross domestic product three tenths less than expected, and also the Independent Tax Responsibility Authority estimates that the forecast of public deficit for this year is 2.1 percent, which is eight tenths above the final objective that has been marked this year. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the data; and they are not the data of the Galician Union, they are the data of the Banco de España and they are the data of the Independent Tax Responsibility Authority, who are putting the alarms on economic policies, industrial policies, spending and the public deficit in which the Government is incuring. And we already have a history in Spain of a similar situation. Then it is not worth saying — the Socialist Party — as Minister Pedro Solbes said, who confessed in his book of memoirs that since November 2008 it was already obvious that the economic situation was still getting worse and it was urgent to act. Minister Pedro Solbes said it in his memoirs, but, as you well know, in 2008 nothing was done and then the consequences came. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia believes in a policy that optimizes the productive sectors, adapts regulations and moves towards a model that makes us more competitive. And for that reason, you don't understand the money order that Pedro Sánchez's government is making, a one-hundred-and-eight-degree money order that's being a big guest for the economy as a whole, for industry, and also for employment at the national level. A guest who is having a very serious impact on Galicia's productive structure; an impact on the government's policy of aggravating our infrastructure, our funding, our industries and our employment policies; government recklessness in energy policies; and also the government's failure in Madrid to provide essential legal security when we talk about investments, when we talk about economics and when we talk about industry. The interests of Pedro Sánchez, ladies and gentlemen, are penalizing Galicia with less public resources: the State General Budget Project presented at Congress in January reduced its investment in infrastructure by twenty-six percent. And we also found the lack of solutions to the EUR 800 billion corresponding to Galicia for its financing as a fulfilling community. Ladies and gentlemen, the removal of the reserve of EUR 40 million that Galicia had in the Reindus programme has consequences, and at the moment there are six projects on the reserve list simply because the count was not kept established and reserved for Galicia, a decision that is prejudicial to the development of investments in Ferrolterra and the whole of Galicia. But also changes in the criteria for allocation of employment funds: the Government no longer assesses the efficiency and efficiency in management that Galicia is doing in the execution of the employment funds, and this will assume that, instead of receiving eight percent of the total each year, we are going to receive fewer investments. President Pedro Sánchez's interests penalize Galicia with less confidence in the energy context. We know all the parliamentary groups of this chamber, they know all the Greek electro-intensive companies, and they know all the workers who develop their activity in Alcoa, Ferroatlantica, Megasa, Celsa and all the electro-intensive companies. We don't have a solution for our electro-intensive companies, and they're putting at risk 5,000 Greek workers with a status on which there's unanimity, but a status that's insufficient and a status that doesn't respond to the needs of electro-intensive companies. Nothing is said about the reduction of fees and taxation in the proposed statute, the figure of the hyper-electrointensive consumer is not mentioned, nor does the Government say nothing to lower the fees of access in the part relating to the cost of transport, and at this time no guarantees are offered in order to be able to apply the compensations for CO2 emissions. Also prejudices about coal plants cause us to now have to assume in Galicia the closure of Meirama without any alternative, and those same prejudices about diesel and the future of combustion engines put at risk the strategic automotive sector, which represents twelve percent of industrial employment in Galicia. Simply, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of the Socialist Party does not understand that the energy transition must be orderly and fair and must necessarily offer alternatives to industry; an energy transition which, as the Government is considering in Madrid, simply leads us to nothing. Finally, President Sánchez's interests penalise Galicia with less certainty about back concessions. It is incomprehensible that the Government is now crossing arms in the face of a possible closure of the plant of Ence in Pontevedra, which depends — as you know — five thousand jobs, which puts at risk eight thousand families in Greece, 1.8 percent of the gross domestic product; and, as you know, every day, four thousand tons of eucalyptus wood destined for Ence. But more importantly, someone would have to explain why the Government now wants to amend the rules of the Law of Back and wants to leave in danger and legal insecurity companies and public equipment that are currently in the public domain of the sea-terrestrial. Ladies and gentlemen, there are a total of more than a hundred canteens, aquaculture facilities, debuggers and mollusc cooks, which generate an important number of jobs that, at the moment, with the Government's proposal to amend the Law of Back, would be in danger, which would cause irreparable damage to the economy and the productive fabric of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a lot at stake. We need the central government to correct the loopholes and provide legal security and stability, we need the government to correct its lack of initiative in designing a coherent industrial agenda for this country and we need them to accompany us so that there are no obstacles to what it has so far cost. I therefore trust that this parliament will stand on the side of Galicia, stand on the side of industry and stand on the side of every industrial worker in our country, so that we can continue with policies of industrial impulse on our land and continue to feel proud of Galicia that we are building among all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u121	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u122	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, the truth is that not by hope is no longer disappointing to the attitude that comes to this chamber, because, once again, you have not been up to what this country needs right now. Look, up there you have Alcoa workers and other companies -- to which I use to greet -- and basically, instead of offering alternatives, a country position or something in this context of deep concern so it must be one of the most important problems this country has, you came here to give us a rally. Look, we're grown-ups and grown-ups, and if we want to go to a rally of the People's Party, we'll go; we're sorry to have a counselor who's dedicated to it. You came with your election suit, when, in fact, you're a counselor. I am convinced that he rises every morning glad that in the Central Government, at this moment, he does not rule the People's Party; I think that's what really satisfies him. I, if I were the People's Party, would be worried, because I wouldn't be sure if you were going to vote for the People's Party, it wouldn't be that I couldn't blame all the nationalists, the Socialist Party, the chachachachaa or anyone else around. [[Applause]] And then we also have a president of the Hunt of Galicia, who one day is becoming almost independent asking for competences and the next day he's telling us that communities should not handle any more issues. And what doesn't even matter about the debate on the future of the Welsh industry, which has not been worthy of coming to this parliament today. Well, I want to insist on a question that we've already moved into this chamber: one thing is the competences that the Galician community has or does not have, and another is the manifest incompetence that it has this government, which simply throws balloons out. I am already bored with reading to you in this parliament, Mr. Conde, the articles of the Autonomy Statute, so I simply remind you that you have responsibility for the economic and industrial planning of this country and that, therefore, even though there are questions that depend on the state — and the nationalists are fighting to make them less and to overcome that milestone which is detrimental to our country — there are many other issues that depend on you. And what we've seen here is that they have not assumed the least responsibility for the situation that industry is living in this country. On the one hand, we saw zero self-criticism and zero proposals, beyond slogans. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you are very much to preach, but little to give wheat. Look at the last full year in our economy, let's just look at 2018 and what the evolution of industrial employment was. The trend was an increase in overall occupation in the economy, and on the contrary, in industry we are going against: only in 2018, three thousand five hundred less busy. You came here to talk about Yupi's worlds as if we didn't have one single question that would improve in the Welsh industry, and the truth is that's not so. Because the indicators are depressing to look at where they look and they get where they're caught, and that's the result that the only strategic line of this government is deregulation and throwing balloons out; they have no more strategic line, and that model -- you spoke here as a Welsh model -- is not working. And what we really care about is that you come, every time there's a problem in this country's industry, this camera, first deny reality and then make it up and hide it. That's what we've lived through all this legislation with as important sectors as the automotive sector. You've come back here to take a closer look at the situation of the automobile, when you know it's not all the gold that's clocking. First they denied relocation, there was no such thing as we started this legislation and there was no relocation to Portugal and other countries in the automotive sector. Then they fell from the donkey; socially it was already impossible for them to say that, then they sold us the motorcycle of that law of business implementation or more known as the law of depredation. And the truth is, over time, evaluation is a failure, also in the automotive sector. It's because you've come here to read the beautiful part of a hypothetical future that we have to believe, but you've forgotten that, for example, today in Faurecia Seats of Galicia have an ERTE that affects a part of the staff board, which means more than four hundred people, for the whole year 2019. And so, we could give more data than, of course, for us, I'm not a good model of doing good yellow, but a worrying question. And we really think that the events of these last few months certify two issues that we've been warning from BNG, when you called us catastropheists. First, that the recovery of the macroeconomic picture of the large figures was not moving to the working class of Galician, they were not removing the working class of Galician from impoverishment, and they were not moving either to the business muscle. And secondly, it's obvious that we were walking towards a slowdown in the economy. I am glad that now, at least, we recognize some evidence in this sense, but the truth is that we have come to that poorly prepared slowdown. Why? First, because with its cutting policies in the Galician Union and in the Central Government we have reached the dawn of that sharper period of the crisis with our practically dismantled productive sectors, and secondly, because when there was a growth that allowed us to bet on a model change, you didn't take advantage of that opportunity. And you have enough cynicism here to talk about innovation when we follow the line of innovation: innovation and research are still not reaching one percent of our gross domestic product, Mr. Conde; you know it perfectly well. In any case, we understand that we have a lot of emergencies on the table and today we wanted to spend some time with them. And I wanted to make a brief mention of the naval situation. You've talked a lot about Industry 4.0 here, but little of the concern about the workload in the north, what's happening with the auxiliary industry. Today it comes in the press as companies like Elinco are having payroll problems. And you also know that because of these delays -- thanks to the moreneous frigates' kacques -- they're not going to have a load of work right away, and the industry is worried. And also in the south: the Vulcan crisis, for example, is not solved. We could also talk about the textile situation, which you didn't mention, and which is very worrying. We have to assume as a country that there is a problem of huge relocations, because there is a problem of lack of initiative in this Galician Union to set up companies. I can't help but mention today to the police workers and workers, more than a hundred people from a company that was a reference in the plastics sector who are suffering from a manual relocation and who, in the face of that crisis, Galician Union delayed, Mr. Conde, a month—one month!—to set up a work table. [[Applause]] So today I'm asking you to step up your contacts with the company and speed up the work of that table. We see that the absence of a strategy to fix companies leads us to a strategy that, in fact, is a domino effect, and there is also an important lack of criteria on many of the issues. We see it with the question of Ence: for you, Ence, it's untouchable; one day we'll know why, though we already have enough clues with gentlemen like Carlos del Alamo. But explain to me why you can open a debate about where to move the Coruña refinery and there can be no debate about where to move Ence. What Ence hides — and I invite you one day to discuss specifically this — is your own failure, is the very failure of the Galician Union, which, in addition to the incoherence of the People's Party throughout history changing your mind, you know that you haven't made any sort of planning. [[Applause]] As they haven't done any sort of planning with the issue of Meirama either. Did you, when you were going to take the photos precipitate to Meirama, didn't you know that you had to be behind that company to urge you to keep these jobs? [[Murmurs.]] They didn't because they didn't want it and because they have interests in the spinning doors that they then arbitrate to them. And also, speaking of Naturgy, I can't help but think about it here today: the crisis in industry has a derivative in the crisis of auxiliary services. We also saw it last week, when we know that Naturgy is going to agree that the telephone customer service that feeds one hundred and thirty-one people in Ourense is going to be relocated to Reus. If you were an economic adviser worthy of such a name, what I would have to do today is pick up the phone and tell Naturgy that they won't consent to this relocation and that any service they carry from this country will have consequences. But you're just looking the other way. We see him in cases of the sudden failure of the Galician Union as Isowat. How could it be that the company with an innovative character, which was the subsidiary they had in the Coruña, still have no buyer on the table and that Medina did? That shows his failure. I want to focus now on the crisis that is experiencing the electrointensive industry, especially Ferroatlantics and Alcoa. Here we have the very clear questions: you were and are part of the problem. The electric frame has regulated you and the interrupting thrusts have regulated you and you have reduced them to six months. It is true that the central government is not brave; we are not satisfied with that status of electrointensives and we also claim it. But there are many more questions on the table that can be done, and in the absence of work by the Greek and central administrations, the unions are doing so. In particular, yesterday's IGC presented a report prepared by the University of Coruña, which takes advantage of the legality and viability of a public purchase with an intervention by SEPI...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u123	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u124	...in Alcoa if there's no buyer on April 1st. Because if there's no buyer that day, what are you going to do? Give a press round and say hello to the workers and workers who are listening to us? We understand that this is not the line of work and that, in the face of this situation, they must explore all possibilities and stop breathing relieved because they have to blame those who take responsibility for them. And finally — and I am finished, Mr President — with regard to the situation of Ferroatlantics, which are also listening to the workers and workers of this company, I insist again, Mr. Conde: we are not talking about any company. I hope in Alcoa we also had some element of concession directly from the Board of Galicia as in the case of Ferroatlantics, which have the Serrabal mine for workers and workers of Soap and which have the centrals of the river Xallas. If Ferroatlantic doesn't — as it isn't doing — with the Death Coast, what you have to do is put these concessions on the table and tell Villar Mir that they won't accept blackmail.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u125	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u126	And if they don't, it will be because something has to hide in front of that lord. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u128	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. From the Socialist Group we initially want to greet the workers of Ferroatlantica and Alcoa, who accompany us in the representation of what are industrial crises that affect the whole of this autonomous community. Counsellor: Twenty-five minutes of electoral rally. All right, we're in precaution, but I believe, and actually, I don't think it's the place. And, of course, speaking of electoral myths — and as in the previous intervention there was some reference — I mean textually what he said yesterday in Barcelona Pablo Casado: "Peter Sánchez prefers blood-washed hands to white-painted hands." I don't say anything else; I say so that soon the president won't say that we refer to terrorism. I insist that it was exactly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u129	Well, I didn't say that, no. Don't put in my words what I didn't say. I asked the whole House to look after the language of the victims of terrorism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u130	The truth is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u131	All of you. I didn't say anything else! You just read a document; perfect. But don't get me into an issue where I didn't come in.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u132	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, I was first surprised by the bibliography: two reports from KPMG and the CEO. It's very good; I think it's already an obvious demonstration of the non-ideological business, but rather technical — of course — that you manage. And then I was surprised at something else. There's a Swedish mathematician -- whom you know best -- called Andrejs Dunkels, who says it's easy to lie with statistics, but which is impossible to tell the truth without them. You didn't use a single public data in twenty-five minutes of intervention on the Galician industry; not a single statistical data. Do you think it's reasonable? You're a university professor, do you think you're really reasonable? [[Applause]] I honestly don't think so, but it's also true that the data, sometimes, is almost best not to use them. Yesterday too, the candidate for the president of his party at the state level said that household consumption, since Pedro Sánchez's rule, has been reduced in Spain by thirty-seven percent. It would be good if we thought about what it means: not even in the Civil War has been reduced to those levels. I also understand that that's what Aravaca University's titrations are for, Harvard section. But to say that domestic consumption has been reduced in eight months about thirty-seven percent is so messed up, so absolutely out of reality, so scandalous in academic, political and social terms and so much to call them -- really, I don't know what to say -- to the citizens I think you would have to think about what they're doing when they talk about economy. [[Laughter]] I think it's much better that they keep quoting KPMG and CEO; but please with data, with data in some way quantifiable, which I think is very important. The truth is, I've been hit by the BNG voicer from the Autonomy Statute. I'm not going to read it either, but here we are, in Article 30, point 1, point 2. Please! He has competences in industrial policy; he hasn't told us anything about his competences in industrial policy, not a word. He spoke indeed of the Government of Spain; it is very good to have a scapegoat there. And you, in industrial policy, shoot with the king's powder, and you know it perfectly well. I am going to read — and I am going to read it in Spanish — or that yesterday the president of the Association of Enterprises with Great Energy Consumption was publishing; it is a paragraph published in an economic newspaper in Madrid: "The associated industry in our organization has celebrated the Government's initiative to put the draft Royal Decree of Status for Electrointensive Consumers, a fact that recognizes the importance of industry as a key pillar of our national economy, of the quality, stable and qualified employment that it represents and of its irreplaceable role as an engine of innovation and progress for the country. The aim of this new statute is to put in place a number of mechanisms that can harmonize our situation with which our main European competitors already count. However, so far it is not enough to achieve that goal." You've seen that I'm reading the whole thing. And precisely as it is not enough or as we believe it is not enough, we support and vote in favour of the allegations made by the Council of Galicia in this Parliament. I very much doubt the People's Party would do the same if those who ruled in Madrid were you; I doubt so much! I insist: I might as well, but I doubt it very much. [[Applause]] Of course, in the Government of Mariano Rajoy, Counselor, they never did. I know they did it in privacy — it was like Aznar's Catalan — but, publicly, never. Yes man, the Catalan of Aznar, the Covenant of the Majestic with Jordi Pujol. It was this story of support for nationalists who broke Spain when it was necessary to have an absolute majority in the Congress of Deputies; in 1996, it wasn't in the third century before Christ, huh? I'm saying it... anyway. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, I also recommend that, when I bring statistical inputs to the President of the Board, if you ask them, do so with minimal rigour. Because, since you like to talk about rigour, the other day the president of the board said that they had created themselves, since his government, in Galicia, nineteen thousand two hundred industrial jobs. It's false: according to the EPA, it's lost 19000; according to the memberships to Social Security, 17,178, and according to the Industrial Survey — which is a little more controversial data because it reaches only until 2017 — twenty thousand. So, man, come here and lie... here and where it happens! The other day we saw the publication, in a magazine, of an article exactly what we are discussing today: the situation of the Galician industry. The poor editor refers to a press release from the Council, where he speaks of data from the industrial production index modulated through the magician of Oz, and then he has to separate these -- I don't know exactly what's called technical language -- with the actual data of the annual industrial production rate, which falls 1.7 percent in Galicia. I don't think it's appropriate to say magazine is, but if you want, then I'll give it to you. So I think it'd be okay to do a little bit of... it's good to come and do some mitins, you have unlimited time and you can spend twenty-five minutes on the mitins -- it's a little late -- but please dedicate ten minutes to the data; I think it'd be okay. And if you can quote them from official statistical sources and not from KPMG or Mr. Garmendia -- that we all know he's a top-level Marxist-Leninist -- it would be much better as well. Look, you in industrial politics are exactly the same as those animation groups of American baseball teams -- a lot of moving tapes, dancing and making music, but who has to run and sweat are others. That's exactly what you're doing in industrial politics in this autonomous community. And I want to talk about some of the cases, because the truth is it's almost complicated to talk about all of them. And I want to start with an answer from the Galician board to a company that referred to the BNG spokesperson: Poligal. In the face of this group's question that I had asked U.S. against the Polygal problem, a closed problem -- we're not talking about a temporary ERE, we're talking about lowering the Persian -- I quote, textually: "The U.S. is next to the workers and workers of this company, maintaining a permanent dialogue and making it available as a labor authority, to ensure that their rights are respected in accordance with the applicable legality. As well as administration committed to economic activity and employment in Galicia." Compromised and competent! Of course, being compromised can be a mystical promise. And competent: Statute of autonomy of Galicia; because, of course, it gives the feeling that you do it vocationally, and not, it's not a matter of vocation, it's a matter of which you are in the Statute. "In this way, it has just created a working group with the company committee and the unions to assess the current situation, both from a job and a business point of view." This in the face of a situation of closure of a company of — I think I remember — one hundred and fifty workers. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez shows you a document to the members of the House.]] In fact, you've also talked about electrointensives; the workers are with us. We, from the beginning, said we were going to support all efforts to make that status as best possible and it was the maximum guarantee of viability for companies, but I want to express two or three things. It can't be that while we're asking for that support for the Government of Spain to respond to the needs of these industries, Mr. Feijóo, and I think here he shows his... — I don't know if the expression...; I'm going to try, and I'm willing to withdraw it, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u133	Well, don't say it now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u134	No, I'm going to say it, because if I don't get hurt and then the psychiatrist passes me a bill: moral sanity. Yes, yes! [[Applause]] And I already save the moral adjective. [[Murmurs.]] Because while they're looking for buyers for these two companies, Mr Feijóo, politicalizing against the Government of Spain, says that the Alcoa plant in San Cibrao is seriously threatened — on day 3 of this month, EFE teletype — and he also says — I have it around here — "He warned: without a drop in the price of light, Alcoa "has no future". A top level electric engineer. It's a pity I hadn't said it in Mr. Rajoy's eight years of government; it's a pity I hadn't said it there. There he did something else: there he negotiated bilaterally every two years with the company and they were going to fix it; exactly the same thing the People's Party has been doing with Villar Mir and their companies since 1975 or 1980. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] So, that's what we have to talk about, Counselor, that's what we have to talk about. We need to talk about bilateral, contingencies and conjunctural negotiations that are all they do is to prevent or remove this negotiation from the public focus. In fact, I am in favour of a transparent electrointensive status, as long as possible and which, of course, guarantees the viability of the company.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u135	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u136	But I also say this: it can't be a systematic blackmail to public authorities by businessmen and companies. Because it's true that the state has to pay for it or that it has to be paid by electric consumers; we have to pay for all citizens in one way or another.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u137	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u138	Therefore, Mr. Conde, the rally is very good and it is very good to attack the Government of Pedro Sánchez, who is guilty of the seven plagues of Egypt, but it would be very good if he executed his powers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u139	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u140	...and that he did some industrial policy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u141	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u142	Good morning and welcome to all the compañeros de Ferroatlantica, Alcoa and other companies that accompany us. Counsellor, the truth is, listening to that happy ark of industry in Galicia that you told us about in the rally you voted for us, it leaves us a little confused. Because, as both the PSOE and the BNG spokespersons say, with all that you tell us, if we add up the covers, the declarations, the billions and thousands of jobs, in Galicia there would be full employment in the industry, the total population of Galicia would not be able to accommodate so much employment. But there's a reality: we've been without industrial policy for years in Galicia, beyond favoring the interests of certain companies, which because they care a lot about themselves; they're here all day, telling us that we have to think about some kind of business -- which you have a certain kind of relationship. And now, finally, after many years, we see that there is already industrial policy in Galicia -- we just heard it from you -- and it's to find out who's to blame. That's the new industrial policy that hasn't happened in recent years. And, of course, it's never the fault of the Government of Galicia. In spite of all those billions and thousands of jobs, there is reality in the data — Mr Losada said — the industrial production index in Galicia does not stop falling and the employment, the number of people in the industry in Galicia, not to go down. They can't deny official data. How can all that happy Arcadia that you've told us about be true? The Greek production system weakens after years of closure, with a truly alarming current situation, with no clear alternatives to renew the industrial fabric and with the competitiveness to capture investments into historical minimums. That data, perhaps, you can see them every day not only in statistics, but in journals. Galicia is the region, the autonomy, the country that's getting less investment. This year I think the figure goes for thirty million euros -- well, I think the figure is 2018 -- the third part is 2017; ridiculous amounts. If so, give us a single company of over 100 workers — an industrial company — who in the last five years had set up a new construction plant in Galicia; give me one. What are the biggest problems in the Welsh industry? Well, of course — he quoted them all because if he didn't give me time after one-by-one: the cost of energy, the facilities for relocation and inaction in relocation policies, the budgets for R & D+i clearly insufficient and poorly focused, the precariousness of work, the lack of political capacity to capture investments, the lack of axile and efficient transport infrastructures, the technological renewal and connectivity, not developing policies that facilitate the closure of productive cycles and, finally, what will be one of the greatest focuss at the international level in creating jobs and industrial economy, which is the fair energy transition that leaves no one out. And that has to be done with foresight, of course. What you can't do is say, is that Naturgy now decided to close Meirama. But you weren't afraid of that for four or five years now, like the CO2 fee? And what did they do in those five years? Nothing. What now? I blame Naturgy and blame the Minister of Industry. But is the ecological transition, the energy transition something six months ago or nine months ago? Counselor, a little serious. Well, I have six minutes left; I'll see where I can go a little further. Cost of energy: but who has implemented the law regulating the electricity sector, Law 24/2013? Do you know who was ruling in Spain in 2013? Who took the megawatt price/majorist hour to totally intolerable limits and gave loose income to the speculation of oligopolie in the daily pox? But if within a few months of establishing it, companies gave indispossibility in how many groups I don't know and rose by about seventy percent the megawatt/hour! Have they not already realized in the first six months of the existence of that law? And from there on, we arrived at seventy-five euros megavatio/hour, which will leave these gentlemen' companies out of play. In Marea here he wants to send all groups a clear message: let's leave electoralism. There is no solution for these companies by putting us together; we have to agree, there are concrete claims about the status of electrointensive consumers, and in the vast majority of us we agree. It is true that perhaps we do not agree with those who can harm the companies that you — and also the Socialist Party lords for many years — have protected, which are the big power companies. Because we can't solve the problem of the electro-intensive industries, of all industry and homes with only measures and patches; we have to attack the core of the problem, which is the price of wholesale energy. In Marea it's been two and a half years making lots of bets and many proposals to change everything that takes the mega-hour price to maximum in Europe. And in Marea, the Members and Members who are in Congress, we are going to vote in favour. And if you're in favour and the Socialist Party gentlemen are in favour, we'll give them all the credit. You'll be able to go out here and say: we've got a status of electro-intensive industries that will give these companies a future, and In Marea will applaud; I'm telling you in advance. But that's right, let's not put all the costs in the homes and the rest of the companies that supply the electricity sector; we're actually attacking the problem. And I'm not going to tell you about the measures, because you already have them -- I suppose you would read them -- that you registered them in Marea and registered them for the rest of the parties, even the People's Party -- which, of course, did not count on the workers to write them. Facilities for relocation and inaction in relocation policies: but are they not really going to require Ferroatlantics to meet the conditions of hydraulic power stations? Now it's no longer fulfilling: no production is maintained and no jobs are kept. Aren't you going to do anything? Tell us, at least, that they're doing something and that they can't make it public. Tell that, at least, to see if it's true they're telling Mr. Villar Mir: it can't be, it can't be that you supply raw materials in Galicia with public concessions and have the electricity that could be the cheapest in any factory in Europe. With self-consumption, Ferroatlantica could be at a cost of energy of twelve euros or megawatts/hour, and I'll give you a report whenever you want to prove it. What's wrong? It's best to sell it at seventy-five and then close the factories. Are they doing something? Tell him, even if he's confidential. And you're going to allow Polygal to take all the knowledge developed in Fene to Poland or Portugal? What are they doing? Clearly insufficient R & D+i budgets: Galicia is at 0.89; you, in your strategic objectives, said that by 2020 it was going to be at 1.7. Do you really think that, with what they're doing, we're going to reach 1.7 next year? Really? But in addition, they don't execute: in the last five years, two hundred million euros without running. And besides, we have to rotate. You know we support that the drone industry can have a future someday, that's true. But is it logical to invest a hundred and fifty million euros in the factories of the Rozas drone polygon at the moment, when are these companies in this situation? Would it not be better to take the interim decision to withdraw what is left — seventy, eighty or ninety million euros — and to develop, for example, an electric battery project for vehicles based on air-aluminium flows? You know that the future of batteries for electric cars is aluminum; we have aluminum and we have car factories: can't you make a timely strategic decision? We'll make certain types of investments that are in the medium term and immediately develop the technology of electric batteries for vehicles. Perhaps they wouldn't change their mind if it was seen that the Government of Galicia has a strategic bet on air-aluminium flow batteries. Job insecurity: of course, how will businesses come if the best-equipped girls leave and the most skilled professionals are expelled from the labour market? We have to demand the Navantia that, when I make the ERE presumably to the one thousand six hundred or seven hundred workers, there is a period of overlap so that all these people can... If you were at the Navantia Board of Directors -- as we've been asking for all the legislation, and you don't want it -- maybe you could defend it there, whether there's a period of a year or nine months of transfer of knowledge. Lack of political capacity to capture investments: I tell you, tell us the investment capture data. Has it already been commented, why the Government of Castile and León — which is yours too — obtained an investor for the less technological part of Isowat-Made and, instead, for the jewel of the crown of that group, as is Isowat, with the contract of the frigates before, with the wind farms and with hundreds of millions of euros of possible business for Isowat, the Government of the United States of Galicia does not really find an investor for that company? Lack of transport infrastructure — this goes for the Socialist Party's gentlemen — it is entrepreneurship that in the budgets you have presented, not all the rail connections of Galician ports and the connection with... how is it possible? [[Murmurs.]] The Greek ports are the closest to the Panama channel, and in the new Panama channel it passes twelve percent of world trade. The Coruña, Vigo and Ferrol are a thousand and a half miles away from Rotterdam, forty hours of navigation. By improving a little... of course, if the containers get there and there's no place to put them... with a completely reasonable investment, the containers would be in Berlin, Paris, anywhere in Spain, of course, long before they came from Rotterdam, where ninety percent of what comes from the Panama Canal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u143	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u144	Yes, I'm done. Technological Renewal: How are we going to have technological renewal if Industry 4.0 is based on connectivity and we are in line with connection capacity in most Galicia? And then don't develop policies that facilitate the closure of productive cycles: what I told them about silicon in Ferroatlantics and obleas. Why do you forget Mr. Villar Mir takes them to Puertollano, with how many jobs? And what about the Government of the Union? If the raw material is here and the first transformation is here, the final product has to be here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u145	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u146	The same is true of aluminium: we have energy and we have aluminium plants; the development factors of air-aluminium-flow batteries had to be in Galicia, in particular, in Vigo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u147	Thank you, Mr. Casal. He's got another shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u148	I think this is about industrial politics; the other is about Arcadia that I don't know if anyone will ever believe.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u149	Thank you, Mr. Casal. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u150	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casal, you have just portrayed perfectly — and your group — one of the last issues you have pointed out. You are criticizing the general state budgets presented by the Socialist Party: but if they were voted in favour of them! But don't take our hair off! [[Murmurs.]] You voted in favour of those general budgets of the state that recriminalized the Socialist Party. Are you guys kidding? Do you want to fuck people? You voted in favour of those budgets. If they were against, they voted with the People's Party, because we rejected budgets that punished Galicia nothing more and nothing less than with a cut of twenty-six percent of the stakes destined for investments in our community, while six hundred percent more funds were allocated to other communities like Catalonia. So you are accomplices, necessary accomplices of the Socialist Party, who is committing an indiscriminate attack on the Galician industry; that's what's happening. You come here to rob a few votes, but defend Galicia not. To defend Galicia they've never been, and I'm sure the workers in the Welsh industry know they'll never be. You're opportunists, directly. Look, I've been a member of this chamber for six years, and at this time I've seen your political group and those who accompany you demanding the closure of companies. You came here to ask for the closure of Reganosa, the gas plant located in the Ferrol River; you came here to ask for the closure of the thermal power plant of the Bridges, your party; you came here to ask for the closure of Ence and Elnosa, and you are against the expansion of Citroën installations. That's what you defend, and therefore I suppose you will be very happy and very pleased to see that you now have a Socialist Party that is able to move from words to deeds. You've been asking for the closure of companies here in Galicia for a long time, and now the Socialist Party is the collaborator, the useful fool of this radical left that you represent. That's the reality. If you bother them with the useless fool, I'll take it away and I can say it's useless fool, because that's the reality: you're not useful for Galicia. [[Balbordo.]] [[Applause]] [[Balbordo.]] Today, the Economic, Employment and Industry Councillor appeared because Galicia faces a serious crisis and a serious threat: the closure of industries that are strategic to our economy, the danger of a possible new economic recession that is on the horizon of our economy — and you deny it; it's normal, it's already done, it's already happened in 2008 — and most importantly, the impact of that irresponsible policy and that economic recession that approaches the employment of our community. The origin of this perfect storm is nothing other than the desire of the Government of Pedro Sanchez, they like it or they don't like it and they're upset or don't listen to it. Today Pedro Sánchez is a threat to our country's intensive electro-intensive industry: 5,000 jobs are under threat. There's a solution: the status of the electro-intensive industry and the allegations we make to that instrument. If they really want to support the intensive industry, they do the necessary management — just as they did the Union and the People's Party — to urge the Government of Pedro Sánchez to approve it. They don't leave him for the last day; this Friday there is a Council of Ministers, to be approved! And if not, they shut up, because you, if not, will be complicit in that Socialist Party that attacks Galicia and the work of Galicia. Thermal centrals: hey! is that their irresponsibility and intransigence of the minister of Ecological Transition already subjected the closure of a thermal power plant in our community and the announcement of the early closure of the bridge thermal power plant, which could run until the year 2045. Oh, no! The minister wants to close it in 2030, because he's more papist than the pope; we want it to work until the year 2045. And why? Because it's a source of wealth for The Bridges and a source of employment. At the Bridges is Galicia's highest average pension; The Bridges is Galicia's second municipality with the highest per capita income, after Oleiros' municipality. And thanks to what? To a thermal power station. Who wants to close it? The Socialist Party. What do allies and partners count on? With the tides of Podemos and the Nationalist Block Galego. That's the tragedy we're facing. In case this was little, now what they say is that they want to close Ence; five thousand jobs and eighty thousand families selling wood to Ence every year worth 300 million euros. You want to close it, and by the way, you're going to use an instrument, a real decree, which will be a threat to another hundred Galician companies located in public maritime-terrestrial domain, these companies! We're talking about canteens, we're talking about debuggers, we're talking about seafood cooks. Thank you, gentlemen of the Socialist Party. The automotive sector: Pedro Sánchez arrived, made the grace of the combustion engines and made the grace of the "dezesel." We've seen how the automotive sector is experiencing a drop in orders thanks to the uncertainties that the Socialist Party has generated and its irresponsibility. Forty-five million euros from Plan Reindus and Plan Ferrol are gone. With whom? With the Socialist Party. You are the enemies of employment and the enemies of industry; therefore, if you want not to be, put solutions, but you don't believe problems. Naval sector—and I'm Ferrol—: look, you promoted a motion of censure in June. A week earlier, the Government of Mariano Rajoy, with the majority of Parliamentarians who supported it, had approved a general state budget of EUR 200 million to begin the F-110 frigate series. What have you guys done since June? June, July, August, September, October, November, December, January, February, March and April: delay it ten months. Do you know where the workers in the auxiliary industry are? They're in the house hand on hand because they can't work, because the order of execution of the frigates was signed in April, when it could be approved in July. That's the Socialist Party, and that's the legacy you leave for industry. The truth is that the Galician Nationalist Bloc lost the opportunity to defend Galicia, because whenever it has to choose between the party interests to defend nationalism or defend Galician, it defends nationalism. That's why you're defending ruinous formulas for Galicia like the Welsh electric tariff, which, in addition to being illegal, would be a ruinous business, because we would have a more expensive electricity than the rest of the country. You are not able to raise your voice to defend Galicia and criticize the Socialist Party. And why? Because they hang with them wherever they can. Where they can be! [[Applause]] In the deputies they want to eliminate and in the municipalities where they still vote for people. [[Murmurs.]] Follow-up and surrender; follow this, which will end up being a zero on the left, as they are at the Congress of Deputies. Look, the problem of our country's energy system has names and names: the problems stem from a tariff deficit, which causes an irresponsible government, of thirty billion euros. And from there we can talk. You were talking about Alcoa: hey! is that the problem that is now living Alcoa has already happened for the seven years that Mariano Rajoy ruled until twice — which I remember. On both occasions, they looked for solutions for a price of stable and competitive electricity. Now it's up to those who wanted to rule at all costs to put solutions. The status of the intensive industry is an opportunity to find solutions if companies in the sector are heard and workers' demands are heard. We're going to defend the allegations we make, because we think they're the solution. What are they going to do? Defending the Socialist Party and Pedro Sánchez or defending Galician employment and defending our country's industries? The Socialist Party is clear that it will defend Pedro Sánchez, the tides of We can exactly the same, and the BNG probably the same. That's a disgraceful situation we're in. To close companies, as the Socialist Party intends, is to close entire districts, and we, of course, regret the complicity of the tides of Podemos and the Nationalist Block Galego. This is about defending Galicia and defending Galicia's industrial employment. And what we see is how he defends each of his party and how he defends a lord who wants to be in the Moncloa as long as he can and at any price. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, we will continue to defend the interests of the electro-intensive industry, we will continue to defend the employment of the automotive sector, we will continue to defend the employment of the shipbuilding sector, we will continue to defend the forest sector and we will continue to defend the jobs and we will continue to defend the people. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u151	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Replica, economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that I have tried, in my intervention, to make clear what were the objectives of my appearance, and therefore not only to make a diagnosis of the situation that is going through the Galician industry, which is largely derived from the frivolities that are unfortunately being applied from the Government in Madrid, but also to counter to that unpromising scenario all the advances and all that is developing the industrial fabric in Galicia. Therefore, the two thirds of my intervention were appropriate to speak exclusively of industrial policy in Galicia. I understand that you don't want to talk about industrial policy, simply because you don't have any proposals, and you just try to divert your attention to reality and to the industrial policy that is being applied by the Government. So my presentation is clear: it's not just about the industrial policy of the Government. Logically, what the Government cannot stand for is the decisions that are being made by the Government in Madrid and which directly affect the industry itself in Galicia. We are concerned, Mr. Losada, that the Socialist Party is trying to maintain the position it had in its time as Minister Pedro Solbes, when it acknowledged that, indeed, those indications were already being given that there was a slowdown in the economy. Tell me that I do not appoint official institutions: I refer myself to the Banco de España and to the Independent Authority of Tax Responsibility, which are the two official institutions that are warning that the economy cannot be supported and that the industry cannot be supported. And I am not — I say — any kind of inquiry or references, but I am the Banco de España, Mr Losada, and the Independent Authority of Tax Responsibility. I've come here to talk about industry in Galicia, and I'm surprised that Mrs. Presas is trying to move that this government hasn't been supporting the automotive sector and the naval sector; surprising. It seems, Mrs. Presas, that you haven't been in Galicia for the last ten years and it seems you haven't been at the time when, with the automotive sector, Galicia had to work so that PSA Peugeot-Citroën had developed the van and the new model V20 in Galicia. That was a joint work of the administration, of the productive fabric and of the knowledge centres that work in Galicia to enhance our capabilities and so that at present the automotive sector has a ten-year perspective, which are the same perspectives, Mrs Presas — which seems to have not been in the naval sector for the last ten years. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Because this government was what it did, along with the Government of Mariano Rajoy, to save an absolutely critical situation by the tax file read that Mr. Almunia opened up to Spanish shipyards; and we saved that situation. We saved the situation and, at present, the naval sector is being the sector that is leading recovery in the whole of Spain, with thirty contracts in force, and we are being the autonomous community that has developed sixty percent of last year's contracts. And I talked here about the automotive sector and I talked about the car. Navantia is developing and diversifying its productive capacity through offshore parks, we are developing new projects in the naval sector and we are developing new strategic sectors. I'm surprised, Mr. Casal, that I'm thinking, simply, that I'd stop the investments in Rozas. If anything needs the economy — and knows it perfectly — is security, stability and trust. We are developing a hundred and sixty-four million euros of public and private investment, there are certain expectations, there are investments in the public and private sectors, and here comes to say that we stop this investment! Mr. Casal, that's why you don't count on this government. Because this government knows that in the aeronautical and unmanned aircraft sector we have installed capabilities and we have the best infrastructure at European level to develop the project of unmanned aircraft, thanks to the investment being developed by INTA and the Ministry of Defence. So we will continue to work with the Ministry and we will continue to work with the productive sectors to develop this project. I spoke here, ladies and gentlemen, of Industry 4.0, I spoke of innovation, I spoke of digital transformation, I spoke of training, I spoke of professionalism, I spoke of internationalization, I spoke of administrative facilities, I spoke of tax incentives and I spoke of access to business soil. I spoke, ladies and gentlemen, of the industrial policy of the Galician Union, which is promoting the development, at present, of more than two billion euros of investment by different companies, because there is confidence in the Government, because there is installed capacity in our productive fabric, because we have qualified personnel and because we have the capacity to attract investments. I ask the three opposition groups to support the agreement that the Galician Union signed with the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. You can't come here to say that there's a relocation process and not to support municipalities lowering taxes; that's not legitimate. If you really want to support industrial policy, you also support that your municipalities, where you rule, reduce taxes, facilitate access to business soil and allow new investments to be promoted each time. They have a great opportunity to support the Government and the policies of this government. [[Applause]] I spoke about the industrial policy competences of the Galician Union, and they will allow me to speak logically about those policies that are not within the competence of the Galician Union, but that affect the industrial policy of the Galician Union. And you all know perfectly well that right now there is a common denominator that is seriously affecting the industrial policy of the Galician Union and the industrial fabric in Galicia. That common denominator, ladies and gentlemen, knows that it is perfectly the energy policy that the Government of Pedro Sánchez is applying. An energy policy that has to go much further, Mr. Casal, of an energy transition that simply defends renewables, that does not support industry and that goes against industry. An energy policy that has to go further, if I may, Mr Losada, of balloon probes and permanent corrections that are demonizing a technology like diesel, where Europe is the main competent and most developed technology. An energy policy, Mrs Presas, which has to go beyond the closure of thermal power plants like Meirama, without even offering any alternative industrial plans and, unfortunately, without the support of the Galician Nationalist Block to defend those jobs, because you continue to maintain that there are first and second workers. An energy policy of the Government that has to go beyond words and that has to fix at once what that stable electric price is, that competitive price that guarantees the continuity of Alcoa and Ferroatlantic. The three spoke in their speeches about the situation of these companies, and they know perfectly well — I, Mr Losada, can say calmly, with all the calm and with all the concern — that the Alcoa plant in San Cibrao is seriously in danger. It is seriously in danger, simply because the Government is not giving the conditions, within the statute of electro-intensive companies, to guarantee a price that guarantees the viability of electro-intensive companies and also of Alcoa San Cibrao; unfortunately, too. And you know perfectly well that the future of these companies is not happening at this time because you try to divert attention from potential investors; you know perfectly well that it is happening for the Government to establish an electro-intensive statute which provides a price which guarantees this competitiveness and allows the guarantee of business viability. [[Murmurs.]] This is known by the workers, and this is known by the Council of Galicia, and you simply want to hide it. [[Applause]] We have presented our proposals to the Government — and detailed them in my speech — and concrete, realistic proposals that can give a solution to Alcohol and the rest of the electro-intensive companies. The government has to set up the categorization of the different electro-intensive companies, it has to introduce tax reductions, it has to establish tax subsidies and it has to carry out, because it leaves the European Union with twenty-five percent of the auction revenue to allocate to CO2 compensation mechanisms, and we are still waiting for a concretion, even if it is an energy Friday for Galicia and for electro-intensive companies, by the Government. Madam Presas, if the Government sets an electric price, there's no doubt that Alcoa will have a future, but let's think about realistic proposals, because if we don't, we'll keep diverting our attention. [[Murmurs.]] You make a proposal: again, an old manager of the Galician Nationalist Block comes out to the public to simply transfer that is the Spaniards and the Greeks that we buy these plants. That's your proposal, that the Spaniards and the Greeks buy that plant and that we also assume the cost not only of buying Alcoa, but also the cost of maintaining it; surprising. Surprisingly because they want us to do this without solving what other companies' offers are going to be and without knowing what the competitive price of electricity is. But who do they want to fool? What do you think if all the parliamentary groups tell the Socialist Government to implement this electro-intensive status? That it is a statute, that it is electrointensive and that it sets the competitive price so that companies can establish a viable offer. How about we start at the beginning? And from there, let's listen to the investments that are being presented from an industrial point of view and find a viable solution. What do you think? But who do they want to fool? Once again, nationalist proposals that cease to be realistic from the very first moment they pose them. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, this government won't look elsewhere. This government is clear on what its industrial policy competences are and is exercising them. In the field of digital transformation, innovation, training and internationalization we have clear what is the roadmap and we are developing it with productive tissue and knowledge centers. This government will not look elsewhere at a disordered energy policy, an energy policy that presents no alternatives, which is unfair, which is working against industry and which, unfortunately, has already derived from the close of Meirama and which can result, if not corrected, from the closure of more companies in Galicia. And, of course, this government — I insist — will defend all jobs and will fully defend this country's industry. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to push all initiatives. Mr. Losada, by his reference: he told me he didn't know if they would be responsible for the seven plagues in Egypt, he said that. What I can tell you is that the Government of Madrid has not yet solved the first; in terms of industrial policy, or the first. I think... I understand your situation. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I am further confused by Mr. Casal, who is forced to defend the Government of Pedro Sánchez because they are supporting him in Madrid. Of course, it does not contain with the Galician Union to -- as I told them -- look elsewhere, but to defend with total intensity. And with the same intensity we're defending the Alcoa jobs, with the same intensity we're defending the Ferroatlantic jobs, with the same intensity we're defending the Isowat jobs and with the same intensity we're defending the Poligal jobs, just as we're defending with all intensity, without the support of the parliamentary groups, the Elnosa jobs and the Meirama jobs. I believe that when they come here and want to talk about industrial policy and employment policy, they should come with the legitimacy of defending all the Greeks, because here, ladies and gentlemen, we are to defend the general interest. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u153	Thank you, Counselor. Now it opens up a turn of possibilities. There's a chance of a turn of... how do you guys see, considering... do we or don't we? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, I'm talking to you; nobody goes here... well, I see: turn. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Come on. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas. I was just trying to... but well, perfect; what's more. [[Balbordo.]] There's no problem. Don't let it be that way.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u154	In any case, Mr. Conde, we have seen the legitimacy of not being responsible for all the industrial jobs that have been destroying you in the last decade. Of course, they can't charge us. [[Applause]] Ask me if I've been here for the last ten years. I understand that it's a bit exotic that someone in his 30s had the fortune of living in this country for the last ten years, because it's something better strange, because most of my generation has gone out. But yes, indeed, I was here. [[Applause]] I suppose the one who was locked in San Caetano's ivory tower without knowing what was going on with the working class in Galicia was you, Mr. Count; we see you're not interested in some questions. Well, relocation: what is unacceptable, Mr. Conde, is that the only strategy that has this government against relocation is that underfunded Greek municipalities lower their taxes. That's his only policy against relocation! And, therefore, we did not buy it from him. And there are BNG municipalities that signed that agreement, but they signed that convention because it's a blackmailist agreement, because it cuts the chances of accessing help from many agents if you don't sign it. Then again, demagoxy with Meirama and demagoxy with Ence; look, we don't allow it. Meirama's responsibility: whoever took pictures in the campaign at the door of Meirama was you, Mr. Conde; it wasn't the BNG. Yes, yes, you! Well, I haven't brought it printed today, which I've almost got there permanently. [[Mr. Conde López utters words that are not perceived.]] Indeed, there were a few months left for the elections and there he was, with Mr Feijóo, saying that that company was committed to making the investments. That company has already said it won't make the investments; I don't know, it must be BNG's fault. But, of course, there must be some responsibility for you, because they didn't monitor or comply with emissions or meet the requirements to adapt technologically. And so on. Well, as in the first shift it didn't take me too long to get into the intensive industry, I just wanted to talk about something; to begin with, for everything about Alcoa. I see you haven't read the report; I hope you'll read that report that you made yesterday public to the University of Coruña by the hand of the IGC, because others... you say that there are no proposals, but there's also a proposal document on the motor vehicle, this same union that gives you allergy, and a document on the needs of the energy sector in the electro-intensive sector, which I suppose you haven't read either because they're like this, a little sectarian since the Galician Union, even though it's the majority trade union. But in the end, it will not be for proposals. What we are putting on the table is an alternative that comes into its sacred Constitution, which has been launched in other countries — we have the experience of Italy itself with Alcoa — and that is a possibility, because we are concerned and worried about what happens on July 1st if there is no buyer. Because I hope, if you have that follow-up table tomorrow or this week, there are regular buyers, I hope we don't get to that point, but what happens if July 1 has no solution on the table? Shall we look at each other? We'll have to have all the alternatives explored, and that's why we bet. And in the meantime, we work, because we've brought proposals over and over again about this sector to this chamber and because BNG itself claimed that status of electrointensives. We agree that it is insufficient and we agree that it is a take-up by the process of drawing up that statute, which has remained in the most appropriate time and will be approved in the electoral campaign; in that we agree, in which we do not agree, it is in other matters. Also, among the allegations presented by the BNG, is that you exercise the German Government and have a bilateral negotiation with the Central Government, which is something we have voted for in recent months. In any case, what I don't think is responsible for is to come without saying anything new about Alcoa and alerting, above all, about San Cibrao. In the past, the BNG offered the possibility that all groups would vote favourably for a table of claims from the St. Ciberal Alcohol Company Committee itself, and the Group of the People's Party did not want it. So, what collaboration with the workers? The ones that suit them, but not the ones they're demanding right now. In any case, we will continue to work out his hand to try a way out of this matter. And I'm done returning to Ferroatlantic. Today, Mr. Count, while you avoid talking about this matter, there are thirty people who are no longer coming back to their jobs, among assistants, temporary, etc. Today, while you haven't mentioned a single mention to the Soap, you know perfectly well that, despite the parliamentary agreements that prompted the BNG in this chamber, if you're moving the production to Puertollano. You know that perfectly well, but you can see that the People's Party has some interest in not planting towards Villar Mir. I ask you, how long?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u155	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u156	Because I wish — and I insist — all the companies in crisis right now in our country had the open possibilities in Ferroatlantic. In any case, I end with a commitment for the workers and workers who are following us, both from Ferroatlantic and Alcoa, and from Isowat, and from Polygal, as well as from all the companies that are currently suffering from the lack of commitment from the Galician Union: of course, for us it will not stay; we will always be in their hands to achieve proposals that seek a solution.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u158	And when the German Government wants to give in and dialogue with the social part as well, we'll be there.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u159	Thank you. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u160	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Casal, in fact, we agree with you that the connection of the German rail ports to the European network is essential. I would ask En Marea to support the performance of the Bouzas dam to expand the cargo capacity of the port of Vigo. In fact, Counselor, he said a rather illustrative thing: he said that the claim to seek investors was to divert attention. Of course, this explains 0.19 percent of Galicia's foreign investment in the last year, with five percent of GDP. With that proactivity, in fact, it is explained. It would be very good if you reviewed the program of your party, which introduced Mr. Married one of these days, and saw the explicit reference that appears to the statute of electrointensive companies, which is zero, and also saw even the explicit reference that appears regarding industrial policy as a whole, which is another zero. I think it's a good indicator of the deep concern of the People's Party for industrial politics. [[Applause]] Only, very briefly, three sectors. Do you know what was the biggest industrial failure in recent years in Galicia? The failure of the Wind Plan. They sank the Bipartite Wind Plan and then generated a kind of monster that remained in nothing, Mr. Conde, in nothing! Because you know perfectly well that the first mill or the first wind farm that was built in Galicia that had already begun with the Government of Mr Feijóo was inaugurated on November 23, 2018: Muxia I and Muxia II; first and last. The only park made in Feijóo is that, and they've been ruling for almost ten years. Hey! Where are those six billion euros of investment and those fourteen thousand jobs? Remember the power point? It's true that you weren't a counselor, but you certainly remember. In the naval sector, SMEs and the Institute of Official Credit have just signed a financing agreement to renew the appropriations until 2023. Why isn't Igape there? Why isn't the Galician Union there when the Autonomous Community of Galicia is the most important in terms of private shipyards in Spain? In terms of Ence, look at one thing: the amendment of the Back Law of 2015 is by Mr. Arias Cañete, who, of course, certainly knew a lot about Andalusian latifundes, but it can be seen that he didn't know a lot about his back. But it's from Mr. Arias Cañete; to see if it will turn out now that it is Mr. Pedro Sánchez who melts the beats in the Arousa stream. No, it's not. [[Applause]] And in Ence, Counsellor, an amendment tabled by the People's Party on 8 June 2010 said textually: "(...) the transfer of the Ence company out of the river of Pontevedra, in the shortest possible time, and, in any case, before the year 2018." Well, it seems they've changed a little bit of an idea, which is good, but they recognize it, it contains the whole version, it contains the whole story; it's legitimate to change position, but it's good to contain it. Look, I'm going to tell you very briefly about your industrial policy. May 2018: one million nine hundred thousand euros for an advertising campaign; February 2019: three million nine hundred and fifty thousand euros to the service for the realization of a digital transformation campaign in the field of business; Economics, Employment and Industry. Don't look at me with a surprise face, because it's pulled out of the board platform, unless it's an innocent one, but fine. [[Mr. Losada shows you a document to the members of the House.]] Collaboration agreements in October 2018: €300,000. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I mean, more than five million euros in less than a year in advertising and propaganda. Counselor, are you really going to come here and fill your mouth with industrial policy? And we're also going to talk a little bit of budget execution. The truth is that I was amazed, because Mr. Casado's burning economic guru, Mr. Lacalle, in an interview published at the Vigo Lighthouse last Friday, said textually: "The Government of Galicia has had a model budget implementation." Cojonudo! Model! - I'm sorry. Galician Innovation Agency: two euros out of three spent; twenty-six million euros that didn't spend. We were talking about Ukraine and Turkey, now we're going with Slovakia and Mexico; finally, we're there, in that innovation ecosystem. Igape: 47.4 percent execution. Inega: 50 percent execution. But what is even more serious: in all training and employment programmes, about fifty-six percent execution, Counsellor. And at the same time, we have to read this headline, which did not make Abel Losada or the Socialist Party of Galicia: "The Galician industry will need nearly 25,000 workers to renew its staff." And I repeat again: just one hundred and eight percent, three hundred and twenty million euros without spending.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u161	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u162	I know it's a multi-year theme and, finally, this story that always tells us. But — I repeat — at some point that N of the year will end, it's called overlap, right? Of course, if not, infinity and miracles are a matter of theology, and I don't believe it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u163	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u164	And of course, this explains why the December 2018 budget changes are taken out of the Economic and Employment Council only one hundred and twenty-two million euros. We don't know where they're going this year, because they didn't send us the information. So I'm not saying they go to Switzerland, huh? I'm saying we don't know where they're going; but in any case, they get a hundred and twenty-two million euros. And, Counselor, today, he told us about the new ReEmprene program and the rest of 2019. Listen, they just took out a management order to Tragsatec, published on 4 March, for the assessment of the files of the 2017 call.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u165	Finish it, Mr. Losada, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u166	Counsellor, you've heard well: they've just taken a management order to study the corresponding files for 2017, and come here to tell us a mile from 2019, which they're going to mobilise. I don't know how many millions of euros.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u167	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u168	Don't take our hair off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u169	Thank you. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u170	Mr Counsellor, according to our view, you have not talked about industrial policy; you have made a report of companies with relative and theoretical successes — we hope that they will be real — that of course you are all in active employment. But this government is only active, it's a curious entity; all entities have assets and liabilities, but the Government of Galician Union only has assets and, in addition, it's an asset that usually belongs to others, that is, it's adjudicated through covers of periodicals and permanent declarations. After he says he's defending the Alcoa, Ferroatlantic, Polygal, Isowat, etc. jobs, but we're already tired of the commission and full of the "we're doing", "we're working on", "we're studying"... but what? What are they doing? Tell us specifically what the workers are doing. Do you think your claims to the status of electrointensive consumers are the only alternative? That everything that has presented the opposition, that which has presented In Marea, has no value at all? Shouldn't we be careful, perhaps, with certain things? What, perhaps, did we think of something you didn't think of? We support a number of your proposals in this plenary. Check it out. But tell us what you're doing in Ferroatlantic, tell us: look, I'm meeting with Mr. Villar Mir last week, or with his son-in-law, Villarejo's friend -- you better not talk to that, because I'm sure he'll record the conversation and we'll see what happens next -- and I told him, I told him that they're not fulfilling the contest, that this can't be. We are not going to remove the power stations, because the power stations are indispensable for production to be maintained, indeed; but we have to tell them that it cannot be, that it cannot be that last year they sold seven hundred thousand megawatts/hours on the market to an average of sixty-five or seventy-one euros and that there was nothing left for the factories. You're sure it was there; whoever looks at how Ferroatlantic is in Cee can see a little bit the technological level, development and investments. In the last ten years Ferroatlantic has had to enter -- we don't know, because the accounts are one thing too -- to speak at another time; well, we've talked a lot about it -- around 300 million euros in the last ten years; money that came out of the water of all the Greeks. Where are those 300 million euros or a part of them? What's 60 percent? So they invest one hundred and twenty million euros in improving the factory, which they invest in mounting the factory of photovoltaic wafers there, because we have a port that paid the Board of Galicia; there are some land that could be donated to make a port industrial polygon, there could be that factory and from there they could be exported to the rest of the world. Have you ever spoken of it to Mr. Villar Mir? You answer things or say, no, I didn't see it right for this and this, but answer it. Isowat: How is it possible that a company that makes irons, like Made in Medina del Campo, already has an investor, and for Isowat, with a possible portfolio of huge customers — moreover, here in Galicia, with frigates, wind farms, and all electrical regulation paintings, we estimate that about seven hundred million euros of recruitment possibility — how is it impossible to get an investor? And so can we say about Poligal. And then you find it strange to say that, in the face of an emergency, if a module -- we didn't say it was suppressed -- R & D investment in Rozas. In Rozas you always say there are two hundred, two hundred and fifty, two hundred and forty jobs, but it's not clear that there's an important evolution of short-term job expectations, it's not seen; maybe you have, but I never got that information. Nor does it seem that the drone industry in three or four years generates thousands of jobs; in principle it's not quite clear. What is clear is that if we invest in the tractor sector in Galicia, these results would be much more reasonable, in the aluminium industry; in the car-related industry; in the agri-food industry, which is the future — the biosustainable agri-food industry; in allages and new energies. Because, of course, here when there's a crisis you can lower your wages to workers, fire workers or give 40 billion euros to banks, but you can't modulate an investment policy in R & D. I've found a headline now and I don't know if it has anything to do with this. One of the law firms in the Rozas polygon is Indra, and the headline says, "Indra admits that she can't justify payments of a million euros that ended in the People's Party B box." Tell me clearly that it has nothing to do with this the absolute impossibility of remodeling investments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u171	Finish, please. We agree — I said — with the self-reliant mobility sector, but we believe that there are other priorities, and a government, at best at certain times, has to make tough decisions to meet those priorities of urgency. And I say, one last intervention -- I don't know the time -- respond to something, say what it's doing in particular, what it's doing for Ferroatlantics and Alcoa, who it's meeting with and what it's talking about. And if something is confidential, say: look, we talk about this subject, but the conclusions are confidential; we accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u172	Thank you, Mr. Casal. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u173	Thank you, President. Mr. Casal, it's all right, but you've missed the opportunity to say here, in front of the workers of the electro-intensive industries of Galicia, that your party won't support Pedro Sánchez in a hypothetical investment if he doesn't first fix the problem of electro-intensives; he's lost the opportunity to do it. Because the only thing is that this problem has been created by the party you support, the Socialist Party. The truth is, we talked about electoral programs here, and I'm glad, because it looks at: Podemos' electoral program, Mr. Casal, do you know what it says about thermal power stations? That they want to close them in the year 2024 — we're in 2019 — go to the Bridge to tell. That's why your companion, Mrs. Yolanda Díaz, now presents himself in Pontevedra province. But they want to take our hair? With this program and you're telling us to defend Galicia's industrial employment. Are they really trying to convince us of that? It's a lie. You have a list of good companies and bad companies, companies that want to close, and therefore these workers aren't worth anything and you don't care. There are no first-time workers and second-time workers here, huh? Here you have to defend all jobs. Otherwise, we are faced with pure and harsh political cynicism. The same is true of the Galego Nationalist Block, which comes here to teach commitment lessons to industry. But what commitment, if your electoral program comes as a proposal for the closure of Ence? That's your commitment. So, for these gentlemen, there are first-time workers and second-rate workers. [[Murmurs.]] Look, for us, the workers of Alcoa, the workers of Ence, the workers of Ferroatlantica, the workers of Reganosa, the workers of Meirama, the workers of the Bridges and the workers of Polygal, all are worth the same and all have our respect and our support. [[Applause]] Today we have thirty-nine thousand unemployed less than when we arrived in the Government in April 2009, and unemployment dropped by one-nine percent, they like it or they don't like it. And that's what we did with the effort of the Greeks and the Greeks, because nothing here is free, except when the Socialist Party governs. Today we have 100,000 more members of Social Security than in January 2014, they like it or don't like it; since the worst moment of the economic crisis, 100,000 more members of Social Security. And now all that effort is in danger of an irresponsible government of the Socialist Party. Mrs. Presas, with regard to Meirama: look, Naturgy is not going to invest to continue its operation because the Energy Transition Minister said that some power stations that could be operating until the year 2045 have to close in 2030, and Naturgy said that, therefore, investment could not be competitive in that period. What happened at the Bridges? That at the Bridges was already the ongoing investment, if not, the irresponsibility of the Socialist Government would close the two thermal power stations; that's the reality. Mr. Losada, the truth is that we thought it was difficult to fall below Mr. Javier Losada, the delegate of the Anesthetist Government that day if and day also insults the intelligence of the Greeks, but today, thanks to his intervention, what we could see is that what is perfectly clear is that the PSdEG-PSOE prays to Pedro Sánchez. The PSdEG-PSOE renounces defending the interests of Galicia and the Greeks; you are at the service of Sánchez and his interests. They won't defend Galician employment and are not willing to face it, as Mr. Javier Losada does, anesthetist, and who exercises anesthetist every day since the Government Delegation. The obvious proof of this is to see the social networks that run; by the way, sanctioned by the Electoral Union. You turn your back on Galicia and support Pedro Sánchez; that's the reality. You're not going to stand up to defend the electro-intensive industry, you're not going to stand up to defend the forest sector and the permanence of Ence and the jobs that depend on it, you're not going to face to defend the automobile, you're not going to face to defend the naval sector in the Ferrol River; you're against the industry. So here are the words and there are the facts: these want to close companies and you are the executioner arm of that destructive policy of the left of Galicia. Maybe that's why you're on this side of the House, on the side of the opposition, because the Greeks don't vote for them and the Greeks don't want them. [[Murmurs.]] The reality is that, after two hours of debate about economy and industry, we can see that there are two models and we can confront one model with the other: one model that is the model of closing companies and dismantling of key productive sectors for Galicia, and another model that is growth, job creation and strengthening of our economy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u174	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u175	And after two hours listening to socialist recipes, which consist of not doing anything; after listening to nationalist recipes, they consist of supporting nationalist theses even if they go wrong to Galicia, and after hearing a hypocritical speech of the Greek populism, we have to say that there is only one possible positive reading, and that our obligation is to defend Galicia, our duty is to defend the jobs of the Greeks and the Greeks and defend the industry from these irresponsible attacks of socialism...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u176	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u177	...who has come to Moncloa wrong by losing the elections.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u178	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u179	I'm sure the Greeks and the Greeks will know what to do on April 28.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u180	Thank you. Close the show, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Presas, you tell me about the relocation and she insists that the municipalities in which she ruled the BNG don't collaborate with the Government in an alliance in which we work together. I can tell you that this Galician board has set ground cuts for an equivalent of 60 million euros just to favor the accessibility and price of the soil. This government has invested over nine hundred million euros mobilised in innovation, seven hundred and fifty million euros allocated to Industry 4.0 and over two hundred and two hundred million euros mobilised thanks to the funding provided to all those companies currently investing in Galicia. And this government is training as well as companies that need, precisely, qualified personnel to develop their projects. We ask the municipalities, without having a negative impact on current tax revenues, simply collaborate and apply the bonuses that allow them to be given by law. That's a matter of responsibility, it's a country issue, and it's a topic of sharing an industrial policy strategy. Therefore, I invite all groups to be able to sign this agreement between the Galician Union and the Galician Federation of Municipalities, precisely to continue working to locate and fix industrial fabric in Galicia. Both you and Mr. Casal ask me to talk about Ferroatlantics, of course. I said: Ferroatlantica is threatened, and the soap factory especially, if there is no decision on the state of electrointensity by the Government. You know perfectly well, you know perfectly well the workers and you know perfectly well the Galician Union that Ferroatlantic Soap is one of the most intensive companies we have in Galicia, along with Alcoa, and if there is no electric price that is competitive and stable, Sabon will have no viability. Therefore, this government will continue to work to provide a statute that guarantees in terms of price; that's where they will find the Government. Ferroatlantic workers know that this government has always fulfilled the word given, and at the moment that the Government's commitment was needed not to allow segregation, this government said no; it said no to Ferroatlantic. This government is going to be the guarantor of all commitments linked to hydroelectric concessions; workers know it, they know it, and they know it, of course, the whole House. [[Applause]] We will continue to ensure that all the commitments that Ferroatlantic has to make to the power plants and, therefore, also with the maintenance of industrial activity, Mr. Casal, of railways, that this is the commitment linked to hydroelectric concessions. If there is a failure, there is no doubt that this government will act with all its might to ensure that commitments are fulfilled with Galicia and with the Greeks. Mr. Losada, you tell me about the wind plan; I'm surprised, I have to admit that it surprises me. I'm surprised you're talking to me about the wind sector when it was precisely this sector that paid Zapatero's electric bill, you know it perfectly; a disorderly policy that is now repeated with the minister of Ecological Transition. [[Murmurs.]] He knows perfectly well that this policy that supported the development of renewables led this country to have to assume a tariff deficit of EUR 30 billion derived from that energy policy in which President Zapatero was betting for renewables. This decision saw the tariff deficit of three percent of the gross domestic product that we had to pay among all of us. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And now you're talking to me about the wind sector? I can tell you — and you know — that the wind sector is recovering and that Galicia is recovering leadership. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And you know that, right now, there are seventeen wind farms in construction -- four hundred and fifteen million euros that are investing -- and that have to be in operation by December 30th, 2019. And he knows that it was thanks to the Government of Mariano Rajoy, because he actually pushed the auctions of renewables that are now allowing these projects to be developed. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Balbordo.]] [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Well, Mr. Losada...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u182	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u183	I remit myself to the data and I remit myself to reality. You understand that you have to defend the indefensible : at the moment you had to defend Mr Zapatero and now you have to defend Mr Pedro Sánchez. [[Murmurs.]] I understand perfectly the difficulty you have, Mr. Losada; I understand perfectly. [[Murmurs.]] But unfortunately, the data is the data. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u184	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u185	Mr Zapatero formed the electricity sector and the wind sector in Spain and generated a deficit of EUR 30 billion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u186	Quiet, Mr. Losada, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u187	You know exactly what the situation was. [[Murmurs.]] You tell me about the execution. But you know it, Mr. Losada! You know it perfectly! Did it hurt? Implementation of the European Funds, in 2007-2013, of the Galician Union: one hundred and nine percent. What do you think? Great. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez: Great.]] He knows perfectly well that the execution and commitments made by the employment area on committed credits are located in eighty-five percent, just like those of Igape, and he knows perfectly well that many of these credits are multi-yearly applied so that projects can be developed. [[Laughter]] You know it perfectly well, and you want to come here to be confused about the execution of the employment area and the Igape area. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Casal, Isowat's workers know perfectly who's next to him; they've known perfectly well since the first minute. And you know perfectly well all the management this government is developing to defend its jobs; you know who needs to know. The workers know that we will continue to work to find a solution and they know perfectly well that we do not cease to develop any performance and no management to defend their jobs. We'll do it with the Isowat workers, just like we're doing it with the Ferroatlantic workers and the Alcoa workers, all of them, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like the same intensity that you moved today to have at your own time with the Elnosa workers, to have with the Meirama workers and to have it, today, also with the Ence workers. Unfortunately, you continue to set policies that are not the same, because it seems that the workers, for you, are not the same. For us, we defend the general interest and we will continue to defend all the workers. But, ladies and gentlemen, what this government cannot conceal — and we will continue to say — is the energy policy being developed by the Government of Madrid, the Government of Pedro Sánchez. An energy policy that generates deep concern, firstly, because it generates uncertainties in all industrial sectors, and secondly, because it generates uncertainties in investors, it's generating legal insecurity and it's also generating unjustified punishment for the Welsh industry. It's been ten months, ladies and gentlemen, in which the Government wants to pose an energy transition that is going through an energy rupture, and that energy rupture can end up with jobs in Galicia in the industrial sector. We will continue to advocate, of course, that this does not happen, giving a unanimous answer to the defence of industry and the defence of an energy policy that guarantees the viability of industry. We now have an Ecological Transition Ministry, we have a Ministry of Industry and we have a government chaired by Pedro Sánchez who are against the industry, because they are developing an energy transition that is clearly penalizing industrial development and is currently endangering more than 10,000 jobs in Galicia. And what we say to the Government of Pedro Sánchez — either they like it or they don't like it — is that they don't, so they don't support industry and they don't support jobs. Of course, he won't find us there. [[Applause]] We will continue to speak to this industrial policy parliament in Galicia, referring to the facts that we have developed over the past ten years. Because during the last ten years this government, working with the productive fabric and working with universities and technology centers, is making decisions that guarantee the viability of the industrial sector and that I made industrial fabric in Galicia. Because Galicia is making decisions that affect people: we're allowing unemployment to return to pre-crisis levels and we're recovering more than 100,000 memberships, once again exceeding one million affiliates. Galicia is making decisions on the economy and its industrial fabric, on the law of business implementation and on the impulse of business councils, and also favouring priority business initiatives that allow the reduction of processing deadlines to half. And Galicia continues to make decisions, ladies and gentlemen, thinking about digital transformation and innovation — no importance of investing in Industry 4.0—, investing in R & D and also providing funding for projects so that they can convert their ideas and develop their projects. A Greek model, ladies and gentlemen, which is betting on stability, solvency, credibility and also competitiveness. I refer to the facts: I transferred to them the investments that are being developed in Galicia, most of them with support from the Galician Council in the field of innovation, in the field of financing and in the field of industrialization. It is two billion euros that are allowing PSA Peugeot-Citroën to bet on Galicia today; that Bentler bet on Galicia; that Boeing, Babcock and Indra are bet on the Welsh aeronautical sector; that Bandalux, Greenalia, Coren, Inleit, Dairylac and Entrepinars are bet on Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia is aware of and has an industrial future, and we will continue to work. Of course, I'm the only one who can move them is that this government will continue to defend the jobs and will continue to defend the industry. Of course, from Galicia to industry, what we're telling you is a yes. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u188	Thank you, Counselor. Let's take a short break. We'll resume the full at 6:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u189	We resume the session with the third item on the agenda, which corresponds to the motions. G.P. motion. by Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and D. Luis Villares Naveira on the activities to be carried out by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made by the Central Government in relation to employment in the telemarketing sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u190	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u191	To formulate the motion, you have the floor to Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u192	Good afternoon. We must begin by saying that, unfortunately, since we have been debating the question that has given rise to this motion today, there is a new problem. This time there's a threat of dismissal in a company in Ourense, in the United States. And again, again, for one of the causes that we also saw the other day when we presented the inquiry, which is relocation. Because United States is again using this mechanism — as so many other companies are doing so many times — to further reduce costs even if they are companies that have millions of benefits. And we have to stress again that they do these kinds of questions, that they ask these kinds of questions again, because they think they can do so without having any impact, without any consequences. That is why we again stress that one of the fundamental problems facing the telemarketing sector is the subject of relocation. And this has to change immediately because there are measures that can be taken so companies can't do what they want without having any impact. From here on, we want to send all the support, all the strength, workers and workers from the UK, from Ourense, and also the workers and workers from Bosch in Vigo, to all the workers who have been working these days, these weeks, or even these years, claiming a quality job and also claiming that they can't be left in the street again. As I said, they're not punctual situations. In fact, when we were talking about Bosch, there wasn't even the threat we have in front of the table today in Ourense. It's happening in Vigo and Ourense right now, as I said, but it's something that happened in these, which happened in Unisono, which happened in Atento. It's something that happens repeatedly in telemarketing companies. We could go on with a lot of numbers. The precarious situation across the sector is a constant, not a timely one. And, as I said, they're companies that are making huge amounts. Invoicing, far from decreasing, is rising year after year. So it's not acceptable that, companies with this multi-million dollar billing, instead of generating more quality jobs, instead of raising wages, what they do is generate more and more precarious jobs. We've also said that 15 days ago: the situation in the sector is completely overcome by precariousness; the wages in the sector are very low, they have long frozen or low rise; often workers and workers don't even work 25 hours a week, the average is 25 hours, but there are those who work less with wages than sometimes they don't reach the 600 euros per month. They also suffer a high rate of rotation, and they receive often coercion and threats by companies. There are many examples of workers who have mobilized themselves and who have suffered coercion to prevent them from mobilizing themselves. There's a lot of psychological burden in this sector, and it's not being analyzed because there's a lot of low in this sector, or because there's depression and stress. We will also have to analyze why there is this important psychological burden and the health consequences. And in all this repeated situation, which is a constant, as I say, of the telemarketing sector — which does not happen in an isolated company — it will have to be understood that there are political responsibilities, which has not come to this situation at all. There are some decisions that have been made in recent years that are the ones that guarantee that there is this situation and not another one. And that's why we're going to insist on something that we insist on whenever we talk about employment, which is work reforms. We insist so much because it is a central point of the loss of quality of employment in our country. It was these labor reforms that got the working class to lose rights progressively. And the People's Party and the Socialist Party refuse to derogate from two reforms that are very damaging, as I say, to the working class, which, despite all those hopes that were said, when they were driven, would generate more jobs and more quality employment, the balance, after years of their application, is totally the opposite. No more jobs have been generated, and the job that has been generated is of the highest quality. This is totally a lie, it's a lie. The job that has been generated is smaller, and the job that has been generated is with low wages, with much more ease of dismissal. And this is not an opinion, data does not give rise to interpretations, fortunately. And then, by relying on that data, we have to say that labour reforms are harmful to the social majority of our country, and therefore they have to be repealed. We are concerned that, despite the fact that this is obvious and that, as I say, it is found in the data we have in recent years, the People's Party, far from changing its direction, still wants to deepen further in these measures which are precarious. Because, in fact, one of the major measures of the People's Party's electoral program is to deepen the work reform of 2012. And it seems very alarming to us, because all the speeches they can make talking about defending employment directly, directly, with this statement. Because it's a reform that has contributed to many of our country's Galicians and Greeks having to live with the doubt every day of their dismissal because they have many companies more facilities to throw them out into the street with less compensation, because it's a legislation that has managed to get them down, as it said, much more wages and that in many of the Greek homes they can't even get to the end of the month. That's why we insist again, and another of the points of our motion is that labour reforms must be repealed. As I said before, when we made the inquiry we already said that the situation in Bosch was not isolated, and now, unfortunately, we see how the situation in Ourense, in the United States, confirms that this is the constant situation in the telemarketing sector. And we have to say that it seems very alarming to us that the contempt of the Galician Council for this sector that gives work to around 10,000 people—the vast majority of women—because at the meeting of the Employment and Industry Councillor that we hear this morning did not devote a minute to talking about the situation in this sector, when it lives — I say — with two conflicts, in Vigo and Ourense, which are very hot, that are going out in the media. The workers and workers want to talk to the Galician Council and the councillor didn't even have the decency to spend a minute talking about these demands that the sector has. Nor did he spend a minute talking about relocation, which is something that, of course, affects this sector but also many other Greek companies. We believe that the speech that was made here in the morning doesn't correspond to reality. He drew an overview which, far from being true, is very different from what most of the country lives. We don't think you can lie like that, without smelling, every time you go up this rostrum to do electoralism. We believe that we must have a minimum, the figures cannot be manipulated. Galicia has lost her job, Galicia has lost her job of quality, and that's the reality as much as they lie and say something very different. Today we bring some alternatives to improve the situation in the telemarketing sector. We believe it is important that measures are taken in Galicia and many others to sue the Government of the State. There are powers in Galicia and there are others to sue the government of the state. We also call for coherence, because the People's Party is an expert in claiming things when it's ruling the People's Party and claiming something completely different when the Socialist Party is. We are consistent and we ask you, please, for some consistency. Because the hemerotheque, fortunately, helps us see what really stands for. As far as Galicia is concerned, we believe that the first thing we have to do, in order to find the necessary measures, is to know the sector. That's why we think a study is needed to find out what the workers and workers in this sector are in. We don't think they know reality. Either they don't know her or they lie. I suppose it'll be a little bit of both, but we think it's very important to do this study. And, on the other hand, we insist again on the same: subsidies and contracts signed by the Administration cannot be given without any kind of condition, they have to be in exchange for the job to be of quality, that workers and workers are not exploited; and, above all, if they are given public money, that companies cannot decide when they want to leave Galicia without any kind of counterpart. We insist again on many of the measures that have been adopted in Commission 6a, because often what is approved in committees or in Parliament itself is not going ahead. And that's why our first point of the motion is that we should immediately take forward the adoption in the Commission, which will again clearly reject the ERTE of Bosch in Vigo. And now we also ask—when this motion was drafted we were not yet aware of the situation in Ourense—to be clear with the United States conflict. We believe that concrete commitments are needed. Many times they come here to say words and speeches that can sound very nice, they come to talk about defending employment. But then, at the time of truth, all the measures that have been taken in recent years will create jobs of much worse quality and much more unemployment in our country. And that's why we ask them to approve this motion today, but above all to change their way. The truth is that we are not optimistic, even though they can approve some points of this motion, because, after listening to the counselor this morning, we are very clear that they will continue with the same electoral game, that the only thing they are interested in is voting but at all defending our country's employment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u193	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u194	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. The telemarketing sector in our community has today 800 jobs in the air because of the wave of relocations it's suffering. And it has to be indicated that it's a sector that in our community employs nearly 10,000 people. As the spokeswoman of En Marea said, to the dismissals of the EREs and also of the ERTEs that have been carried out and that are being processed, both from Atento, Extel, Vodafone, Bosch or Accept, now also joins the case of the United Kingdom in Ourense. From here, all our support, from the Socialist Group, to all these telemarketing workers and workers in our autonomous community who are suffering from these ERTE and ERE processes. [[Applause]] In relation to Vodafone, on 22 February this year, the final act of the agreement of the ERE negotiation period which affected Vodafone's work centres in Vigo and Coruña was signed. But even today we don't have the fixed picture of the impact of the Vodafone ERE in Galicia, which we hope to know over these days. Also at the end of February, Bosch's temporary employment regulation file, ERTE, which affects more than five hundred workers, was initiated and which, depending on the service they work on or on the tasks they perform, will be suspended from fifteen days to two months. It should also be noted that 200 workers from their temporary work companies have already been fired. Bosch currently has several projects signed with Vodafone, and the future is largely conditioned by the moment he crosses Vodafone. It should be recalled that Vodafone has hired Bosch as a teleoperator for technical assistance, the customer discharge process and the processing of claims submitted to public consumer agencies. As already noted, Vodafone is making layoffs to relocate work to countries like Egypt or Colombia. And that's why we, this Socialist Group, had already urged the Government of Galicia to leave its cross-arm policy and to use the mechanisms within its reach to defend Vodafone's jobs in Galicia, to use the mechanisms needed to paralyze or minimize this Vodafone ERE by using its client position as Vodafone, as it should be remembered that the Galician Union extended the telecom service contract until February 2021, and that it is the adjudicator of the mobile telephony service to the Vodafone operator. In addition, you also have a project to develop six prototypes based on 5G technology between 2019 and 2021. Junta didn't do anything, and so we see that Vodafone ERE is still charging victims, like ERTE in Bosch. We have already made it clear, with the intervention of the spokesperson of the People's Party in the previous plenary session, that they were not going to do anything in the Bosch ERTE, that they would remain vigilant and therefore not bet on this case either by maintaining the company's activity within the legal framework. Not only do they use the mechanisms that are within their reach, but they also vote against measures that could make it difficult for Vodafone to take part of this technical support to Colombia, because, if the Greeks and the Greeks had recognized the right to be treated in our own language, Vodafone would not have been so easy to take out that technical support. But, of course, the PP voted against in December 2017 of a popular legislative initiative, brought to this House by the Bureau by Linguistic Standardization, to ensure the use of Greek in the socio-economic field. So we see that Bosch's problem is now judicialized, that the company does not present necessary documentation and that it does not replace the workers even though it has a workload. And the Galician Union is unable to guarantee the employment that this sector generates in our community, which, as it has been said here, is a highly precarious job, in which temporality and bias prevails in recruitment, which has very low wages that oblige many workers — and I say workers because around 75% are women — who have to seek another job. But the search for this job is not very easy either because of the changes of constant hours that they have imposed on them, and they prevent them from reconciling it with other activities. In addition, the pressure and stress they suffer brings as a result low anxiety and depression. The working situation of the workers worsens as the company's turnover and profits increase. And all this because of the relocation of services to countries with very low wages. That's why we think it's urgent for the Council of Galicia to rule and defend the jobs of this sector as well as its working conditions. We agree with the vast part of the motion he presented in Marea. We have tabled an amendment, since we see that it is necessary to approve the changes that eliminate the most harmful aspects of labour reform in 2012, to develop a new status of workers for the twenty-first century that adapts to the social, economic and technological changes in the present world, and that it combines business competitiveness with the defence of labour rights, and that is why our amendment to point (b) (1) and for that reason we call for a point vote. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u195	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u196	Good afternoon. In fact, in the previous plenary we were addressing the situation in telecommunications and telemarketing companies, and BNG also brought here a non-law proposition that urged the Galician Union to take action in the face of this situation, measures that the People's Party obviously did not want to support, because everything is all right, there is no problem, and the Government is a commentator. The German Government is a commenter of what happens, its role is to be a commenter or to find out who is responsible for the situation in our country, but exercise of government is not in its script. To exercise as a government, to defend the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks, to involve themselves so that they won't continue to destroy their jobs, no, that doesn't go with the German Government. In fact, in the previous plenary we brought the situation of ERTE in Bosch—derivated, on one side, by the situation of an ERE in Vodafone—and warned that this was a sum and it is still in a situation, which has been producing for years, of continuing loss of jobs that would continue if no action was taken. Well, indeed, days later we have seen this Parliament with new problems in the sector. It was Extel, it was Teleperformance, it was Bosch, Unissono, and now we have the United States with 130 jobs on the loose rope, 130 that are left of the 250 that had the United States. Also accept, from the Santa Lucia group, with 100 other jobs to be destroyed in Pontevedra, Ourense and La Coruña. The roadmap, the cause, is relocation to other parts of the state or Latin America, Colombia, or Egypt. It is a new blow to the telemarketing sector and loss of employment in a vast majority — as we have already said — women. A vast majority of people are very young people who go to this sector because of lack of employment opportunities in the sectors for which they are prepared. There's a vast majority of young people and girls, colleges and colleges, working in this sector for lack of employment opportunities. We can remember the situation in Bosch: an ERT in which there was no agreement in the conciliation act; an ERT in which the company does not provide documentation to justify the same; a company that has no willingness to negotiate; a company that is disembarking staff and at the same time is hiring new staff without repossessing workers from whom it is not doing so. And it turns out that the Union had committed itself to what it was going to mediate, it was going to have a decisive position on this issue. And what do we find ourselves with? Well, they don't find any problems on the file on the board. They don't find any problems in the file because Joina is for commentist, she's not going to launch a message that she has to put herself on the side of the workers and the workers. It's not to launch a clear and forceful warning to companies that you can't act that way, that you can't do what you want, when you want, how you want, how you want, treating professionals, treating people, as if they were real wear-and-shooters. And that's what they're doing systematically in many sectors, but in this particular. The BNG brought here, in the previous plenary session, a non-legislative proposal that demanded questions that remain vigilant — just like those that demand the motion that it brings today at Marea — and that, as a labour authority, guarantees the effective legality. And then he doesn't get involved, he doesn't see any defects, and he's done with it, he doesn't see any defects. Well, let him keep an active position of mediation. No, this is what there is, and we look at the papers, as if that was no longer a legal obligation. But politically they have nothing to do, no, they don't have to act. So, the General Employment Secretary says, "We're not going to do anything because this isn't going with us, it's a business problem and workers." We were asking for an active position to guarantee the attention in English, to guarantee the right of the Greeks and the Greeks to be treated in Greek, as a competitive element of forcing companies to keep their jobs here and to put political pressure on them to keep their jobs here. Because we have to take care of the Galicians and the Greeks into English, and that makes it a job opportunity. But no, no, the honourable Members and the Members of the People's Party cannot vote in favour of these things, please! if this is a Spanish province! They are perfect followers of your master, married, of course! [[Laughter]] Yes, yes, yes, yes, we removed the root, we removed it from the evidence, we eliminated it from society! [[Murmurs.]] That's the popular party roadmap, fantastic! And not even to keep a job where they work between 8,000 and 10,000 people, no, no. Why are we going to do anything? Please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u197	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u198	Yes, you commentators, from an administrative delegation to the service of centralism in Madrid to treat the Greeks and the Greeks as if they were their own particular estate. That's the roadmap of the People's Party. And that the agreements or grants that the Union is bound to keep employment, to have investments here, not for God's sake! How we're going to put any kind of company requirement! The companies are to be given money on the basis of no obligation, which for that is the People's Party, who knows very well which side it is on. And sometimes seeing which side there are some already we have quite clear which side we are not. But you on that side. It's fantastic!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u199	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u200	And if you had done a study to find out what the situation in the sector is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u201	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u202	...and be able to act...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u203	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u204	...not at all!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u205	Time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u206	Not even a study to know the situation of the sector! Sorry!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u207	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u208	We are going to vote in favour of the En Marea motion because, of course, the situation in this country is dramatic...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u209	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u210	...and, with the position of the People's Party, even more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u211	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rodríguez Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u212	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Prado, the People's Party knows exactly where it is: alongside the workers and the workers. Definitely next to the workers and the workers! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Mrs. Quinteiro, you present this motion after the counsellor's inquiry. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have already told you in the committee and I have already told you in the plenary, you come with a closed, opaque speech, looking for guilty where there is no one. And they blame those who don't. You guys, it's a mistake that you're wrong, with the same mackerel, they're trying to sell a product that nobody buys. His concern and that of his group I think he ends at the same time as his intervention ends. His concern ends only at this very moment; ours, quite the contrary. You don't want to see reality, or try to make it up. [[Murmurs.]] Some things, concepts or expressions that have been said here must be made clear. In the previous plenary session, our intention was to vote points, and so we expressed it. On the left, you're not interested in reaching agreements with the PP, you'd rather try to find guilty. The People's Party, ladies and gentlemen, voted in committee on 21 March 7 of the 11 points of the En Marea PNL. We have no problem voting in favour of anything good for the Greeks and for the Greeks. For the workers and workers in Bosch and the United States, all our support, of course! We've met with them, too, and we're working to find solutions. Mrs. Quinteiro, this isn't about good and bad, it's about finding solutions. The People's Party is consistent — and you were talking about coherence — with what you say and what you do. You're talking all day about overthrowing PP's work reform. One question — I hope you will answer me — why don't you? You are part of the Government of Spain, you are necessary accomplices and co-workers! [[Murmurs.]] Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, of In Marea, or whatever they want to be called, you, of Podemos, pay the workers of Errejón — Diarios.es — and then they talk all day about derogating labour reform. I'm asking for some consistency. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, your amendment is unqualifying — "to repeal the most harmful aspects of the labour reform of 2012"—. You, as always, neither chick nor lemon. Be brave! But to be brave, you have to be consistent, to have strength and to have vows. You can't be all right with everyone. All for one more week at Moncloa. Make it happen, even copy and plagiarize a company! The Spaniards will have you pass into history like a nightmare of a bad night of storm. [[Murmurs.]] They're talking about Vodafone's ERE. Ladies and gentlemen, you're talking about Vodafone's ERE...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u213	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u214	It's state competition. You mix everything: national conventions... Not everything is as simple as you paint it. You don't even trust PSOE or We can solve the problems. They're trying to confuse. We are not fools. The Galician Union has been and is acting as a labour authority, reviewing the documentation, in the correction of defects, in the corrective actions required by the Statute, and in contact with the company committee and the company. The Union, ladies and gentlemen, continues to work — as it could not be otherwise, because the most important of these are the workers and the workers — to guarantee their rights. They're here asking for what they didn't ask for in Madrid, amazing! But there are things in this Parliament that cannot be supported or approved. You can't have a speech in Galicia and another in Spain. As is your group of Podemos, of En Marea, or as they are called, I'm not surprised. With regard to Bosch, Junta has been working since the Labour Inspectorate. Junta's raising records and imposing the appropriate sanctions. Junta is acting through active employment policies. The Board also acts through the Galego Institute of Consumption and Competition, increasing aid. Our goal is quality employment. Mrs. Quinteiro, the Galician Union and this parliamentary group are working to defend all workers. Galicia is recovering her position on the job. We've got to keep getting better, that's right. You're not allowed to talk about jobs and industry, in Galicia they say one thing and they do another. You guys destroy jobs in Galicia, a lot of noise and a few walnuts. We will call for a point-by-point vote to be consistent with what we voted for in committee and what we are going to vote for here. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u215	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Pérez. For the motion's own group, Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u216	Well, no surprise at the speech of the People's Party, but they show very little respect and show very little respect for the workers and workers when they go up this rostrum to talk about everything but the conflict they occupy us, because telemarketing spoke at best one third of their intervention, because he came here to do electoralism, as did the Employment and Industry Councillor in the morning, only for that. They show that they don't defend them very little when often they don't even open the door to receive them. He often knows that we have to be the opposition, that we have to be the workers and workers who knock on the door forty times, when it is an obligation for any government to meet with the representation of the workers, and often they come late and they don't even want to listen. And, as I say, it's amazing that they say we describe another reality. The whole fake reality -- and I don't know what movie you saw -- is what you describe. There's a wonderful world: in Galicia there's quality jobs, no one has trouble reaching the end of the month, no one is unemployed, everyone is delighted. But why don't you talk to the workers in this country? Why don't you talk to the Greek families who have enormous difficulties to reach the end of the month? With all the poor workers who are already a huge reality in our country? With people who work for five hundred euros, for six hundred euros? With people who have two jobs, who have to work twelve-hour days, because they can't reach the end of the month with a single salary, who won't get the salary to pay even the rent? That's the reality. People who are six months unemployed and six months working, people who have been unemployed for many years, unemployed and long-term unemployed. That's the reality. And in telemarketing, precariousness is extreme, and you say there's no problem and they're defending the workers. The board does, the board says, the board announces... we're tired of listening to all the speeches, all its headlines, because then, at the very moment, they do absolutely nothing, absolutely nothing more than legislation that affects the working class of our country. And they stop lying. It's just that I'd just ask you a minimum, a minimum of rigour and not come here to lie, of the motion we brought today, because you say we're just asking the government of the state, which why we didn't do it. For one thing, they're a little out of touch with reality and with the Government of the Spanish State. I repeat to you that I don't know if you know who governs and who governs, eh!, because the Socialist Party has been ruling in the Spanish state for 40 years. If we listen to the Galician People's Party, the Socialist Party must lead to rule in the Spanish state—I don't know—all life; you've never been there. The only incoherents, who ask for contradictory things, not a little different, contradictory, totally contradictory, when the Socialist Party is and when the People's Party is, are you. And in the hemerotheque in less than a year we can find sure that forty speeches by the same person of the People's Party saying contradictory things; the People's Party, the same Members and Members voting the same points in favour and against, without any kind of change. The only change is that you've stopped being in the government and, then, it's all the fault of the Socialist Party. Then, please, a little serious. The motion that we bring today has twice as many points, of issues which the Council of Galicia can ask. Why don't you guys want to study? Because that's what they can do. He gave no one argument, because — I imagine, because they have already voted against on other occasions — I am sure they will vote against it. Why do they vote against? Why don't they want to condition the grants given to the Galician Union, to the powers of the Galician Union, to which...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u217	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u218	... companies that receive public money generate quality jobs and don't take businesses when they want them without any consequences? Because he didn't say anything at all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u219	Finish, please. What about the PSOE amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u220	I'm done. We don't accept the amendment, because, as I said, I don't think it's necessary to remove only the most harmful aspects. I believe that labour reforms are harmful as a whole and we are consistent. We've been saying that work reforms must be repealed forever. You won't hear an intervention, there won't be a contradiction to anyone who defends labour reforms.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u221	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u222	The only incoherents are you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u223	Thank you. We are now debating, in a cumulative way, two motions, one from the En Marea Parliamentary Group and one from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, to which amendments from the People's Parliamentary Group were tabled. G.P. motion. of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to primary health care G.P. motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of D. Julio Quintela Torrado, on the measures to be taken by the Union of Galicia in 2019 to improve primary care in the public health system
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u224	It begins by formulating the motion, by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u225	Thank you, President. A previous question before we started. Today, like every year, I bring this shirt, until justice is met for José Couso and his family. And we remember that before... it's terrible. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Until we're talking about an element that, in addition, has an involvement with the People's Party Government, which derogates the Law of Universal Justice, because they have to even speak of Venezuela. They have no limits, but they don't care. We will continue to defend the return of the right to universal justice, to justice for José Couso and for all the people who die in a war situation in our country. [[Applause]] In September 2018 Mr. Núñez Feijóo, before the renewal of some of his Government's chairs, moved that he was working for the next decade and understood that he didn't have to remove the health adviser because he had been working near the health sector since the 1990s, since the transfer, and understood that the work he was doing was right, and defended in that interview that was the best time of health. I don't know what happens in the last few months -- it must be because there are general elections -- that you don't have to recognize a number of issues that are your responsibility, such as the absence of planning, as you did this morning, of the needs of professionals. But besides, in the full past — he remembered a closer date in time — he referred to that strike, moving that strike, the primary care strike, there was not, that it was a lie and that we were inventing it; all a lack of respect for professionals. Obviously, the content of the news in these last few weeks is confirmed that the only one who lied, as always, is President Núñez Feijó in this House, lacking in respect of professionals and professionals. Not to exist the strike, but they sat down to negotiate. And today, that we have on the table this initial agreement, that commitment that is written by the Galician Council to the trade unions, is made even more necessary to defend the measures we propose in this motion, as a result of the interpellation that we have moved to the previous plenary session. And it becomes even more necessary because, listening to the president of the board this morning, it seems that he has no validity what they signed a few hours earlier. We wonder if they will comply with what they have signed in this record and which, of course, requires, involves a series of commitments by the Galician Union. This morning the president said it wasn't true that they had committed themselves to any kind of budgetary increase in relation to the need for more staff within primary care. And, of course, several of the points indicate — as soon as the first of them — the necessary negotiation of the claims, i.e. the allocation of squares, i.e. the number of staff increases, and at the point — I would remind you — number 5, "the planned measures will be accompanied by a budgetary increase in the primary health care expenditure programme on the basis of budgetary provisions". The president of the board this morning, in an interview, denied the greatest: an agreement that was signed in the past hours with the union power stations. And we would also like today that the spokesperson of the People's Party can certainly clarify some of those issues here. It's obviously a good news that meets the demands of professionals, but these demands are confined to that work that will be done later on in that technical commission and, of course, also in the sectoral table. So it's also obvious that, if they don't do it, we'll have work conflicts again. And actually I want to remember that, the content of those words, we have doubts that the agreements will be fulfilled. The agreements relating to strike — Article 8 of Royal Decree Law 17/1977 — on relations at work, imply that these agreements have the same effectiveness as agreed at collective agreement. So what's written, too, the budgetary increase, is due to comply with the Council of Galicia. We want to know if that's gonna work out or not. We've moved this motion from En Marea. We understand that on the part of the council, even if the Council now contradicts you and Mr President, there is an initial commitment and if you are going to vote in favour of this whole initiative, because we understand that it is to be obliged to regain primary care agencies. And as it was said that we were going to negotiate absolutely in everything and that, in addition, in matters of a care nature, we went to the Technical Council of Primary Care and, therefore, that paper paper remains wet paper, because there will therefore be the ability to recover those primary care agencies. A real primary care plan is being developed. You guys today shouldn't have a problem getting involved here. That the demands of the different professional groups be collected, planning for the different years the execution of improvements in infrastructures and the increase in staff. I remember once again: EUR 8 million in health care facilities repairs is really insufficient and does not guarantee any kind of budget, no part of chapter I, of programme 412B, which is devoted to primary care staff. May the improvement plan be given to a budget that is expected to increase the weight of primary care in respect of the Sergas budget by up to 25%. We set the date of four years. Of course, this is negotiable, but it seems to us that it is reasonable about the accounts we have at the moment, and, in addition, it is what professionals were asking for that strike in primary care or that they called that strike in primary care. The application of the sub-budgetary in the current year shall be started using the legal tools to record the relevant credit changes. I believe that, in view of the continuous reports, annual reports of that Board of Auditors, which denounces the quite badly-made changes in budgets, or at least that indicate that move of shares in budgets, essentially related to Chapter I, in this sense, the Health Council and the People's Party should have no problem in adopting a measure that they request to amend, that these budgets be extended to provide more funds to put more public squares. Let the staff demands exposed by the professionals of the continuing attention points be taken into account in the plan. And here I want to stop, and I want to stop because, despite the fact that with very good faith the union centres also raised this point, you know your lordships, you know the People's Party that there is an ongoing strike at the continuing attention points, that you haven't been suspended and that unfortunately you are being continually belittled by the Health Council, that last Friday you were standing up from the negotiating table telling you — you have to be worth it, uh!, you have to have courage! — to the strike committee that you don't consider it valid and that you won't sit down anymore to negotiate with them and with them. I recall: Article 5 of the Royal Decree Law 17/1977: the strike committee is the one to whom it belongs, who is empowered, just as it happened in primary care — at the points of continued attention — to participate in how many union, administrative or judicial actions are being carried out for the resolution of the conflict. The Health Council is required to sit with the continuing attention point strike committee. So, therefore, less wolves and they get to work in this direction as well. There's no excuse that it's worth getting up from the table in such an important conflict of such sensitive service as extra-hospital emergencies. And so it's absolutely unacceptable if you've given your back to those professionals and to those professionals. And, therefore, this question is not resolved. And to negotiate with trade union organizations a true model of temporary contract that allows stability for workers and workers. Zero, zero, a thread, contracts in Portugal that modern and model continuity contract that the health adviser said; that is, that precarious contract nobody wants. Five, five came from other autonomous communities. It is clear — we said from the outset — that this contract increased the precariousness and would not solve this situation, just as it did not resolve to extend the retirement age, just as they did not solve the smoke measures that they presented without any kind of involvement or budget allocated to Chapter I. And therefore today, after protesting what I was moving in this House about this paper that brought us the health adviser, they have to go back and now, yes, negotiate with the professionals the conditions in which public health is to be managed. I'm going to finish, because I don't have any more time. I also want to remind you here that for the rest of the professional categories, absolutely nothing has been dissolved in temporary contracts. And this week the opposition parliamentary groups also received some group of nursing. And, therefore, these precarious, precarious people, who are still protesting about the continued concatenation of contracts, have no kind of guarantee in this agreement. I'm done. There's a written commitment, there's a legal obligation to deal with it, like a collective agreement, and there's an answer from the president of the board saying it won't be fulfilled this very morning. You choose to meet or lie.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u226	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u227	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. By starting practically where the voicer of En Marea stood, who exposed his part, his motion, what happens these days with this supposed agreement: this one doesn't know whether it's an agreement or an act; then, as we never know, we have to ask, because sometimes today we saw that it was an act and the previous one was an agreement, but, ultimately, to see if someone explains to us what it is that is. But that doesn't matter, because the president has already come to say, basically: that's what it was signed, money, nothing at all. Basically that's what he said today morning: money, no; agreement, yes. Home!, books, invest in commitments, set dates? No, no, that's very serious already. Yes, and see if we can get them not to protest us long before the elections, that's the question that the People's Party has as its objective. It's a new chapter in this fantastic telenovela that describes the People's Party in health. The penultimate chapter was that of the superavit, wonderful. Two weeks in Che Guevara plan claiming a surplus to arrive at the decree and vote against. Wonderful. It turned out to be Che Guevara to be a little Benny Hill the matter. It's all right, it's great. [[Applause]] It seemed wonderful to me about Feijóo. If they don't realize it, as soon as the decree arrived and voted against, the decree was over, that was no longer the problem, it was another; they just claimed a hundred I don't know how many millions, now it's eight hundred. If we leave him to the race he'll be buff!, soon they'll start shouting "Spain in the robin," "Spain in the robin," but inside nothing, he'll have nothing left, and soon he'll run to Brussels too President Feijóo. Finally, the last of these chapters is what he said -- and for once we're going to agree -- we're planning badly. It's always good. Better late than never. Mr. President of the Union said, "We planned badly, in health," I said; "I could say so in many other things, but in health said, we planned badly. Well, we agree. We will no longer remember every time that our group has been saying here that we are planning badly, and that, in response to that, we have, among the victors, applauded and much laudable comments from the People's Party, besides that, votes against our proposals, rejection of everything we have proposed. But let's just say this: that it's planned wrong. Today the president says so. Now we'll like to know how it's gonna work out. If planning badly is precisely the worst thing a politician can do, then we expect him to make some decision about it. I suppose it will be the warning to navigators at the Health Council, although the Health Counsellor does the same as the valet: resign but not, which is a modern diferent resignation of the Valator, who goes, who doesn't resign, who doesn't know. Within the truth of the circus this where you recently converted the PP, here Feijóo makes funambulist. What happens is that the funembulists have to have a lot of balance and it's true that sometimes things get complicated. We have brought a proposal to this plenary which not all of us, of course, have come up with, but if we have come up with essential questions of what we have been discussing lately and what has essentially also been discussed in the last interlocution. We have also raised a number of issues since our proposal which are, as you all know, the subject of debate in the groups and committees that have been set up from professional schools, also the union groups, the parliamentary debates. They pick up not all of them — as we say — but if some of us consider it essential to solve the problem in the short term and in fact something in the medium term, although there would be a need to sink a little further. Some of them — I think it is important to explain them even though they are explicit in the motion — are structured like this. They have four foundations: the first is structural; the second is function; the third is a question of forecasting; and the fourth is a question of staff, which is essential. As for the structure, we have spent time defending that we have lost primary care agencies and that this shows that we had a disregard for that level of the system and that we needed to recover them in order to manage primary care better. It is not true or we do not agree at all with what the manager of Sergas says today, that having differentiated structures does not allow integration, because, if it were, with a director for everything would be worth it. We need several. Why do we need several differentiated agencies, in this case in primary care? Because it is so relevant, so specific and needs such full coordination that it is not possible to do so through structures that, essentially — because the reality is what it tells us — they worry about hospital issues, they need so much attention — if they need it — that we forget what is going on in health centres. And that's what professionals are demanding: a primary care agency, with direct responsibility and budget allocation, because it's not worth placing a job that soon has no decision-making capacity. That's not what we're talking about. Second question, of functions. We've said it in the last few days, but you can never stop saying that. We want to welcome the People's Party to the catalog of diagnostic tests. In this beginning of legislation in Question 1787—of the first records—this group asked about the catalog of diagnostic tests; the People's Party objected, in very brief words, that in 2014 they began working on it and were already moving forward. It came in 2019 — it wasn't timeless, it was five years!, it wasn't timeless, and now they're starting to talk, yes, about the need for a catalog of diagnostic tests. Well, that's a good chance. Welcome. Just as it took time, although now they no longer discuss it, in need, which the Government of Sanchez did, to regain competence for nurses and nurses, through the Royal Decree of Nursing which was amended, that the PP prevented the nurses and nurses from having great training, because they did not promise to develop their work, and it was the Government of the State that allowed it. [[Applause]] There are more questions — and this is one that has been eating time in recent times — such as forecast. Through this initiative we have built a common position on how we plan our MIR squares. We need an exigencies before the Ministry and we need the Board to do its job, which is the problem we haven't had in recent years. To see if we are able to sum up, because we have already put a lot of examples, that if we couldn't take more people to a theatre that has no more chairs — which is what happens to us — that we can't ask for an extraordinary summons when there's no place to send the MIRs, that if we ask for an extraordinary summons in the middle of a year, it basically means paralyzing the whole of the previous... that in the end we stop doing this cheap electoralism with the MIRs and be aware that there is a reality. If the government Feijóo had asked for all the MIR squares that he had access to in ten years, we would have today one hundred and fifty MIR professionals plus, one hundred and fifty. When you're asking for an extraordinary summons today, you're practically asking for 20 percent of them, one hundred and fifty MIR professionals who aren't in Galicia today, because the People's Party could apply for that summons and it didn't. What's the difference in the last decade? That practically ruled the entire People's Party in Madrid and now Pedro Sánchez has arrived and now Pedro Sánchez has to be attacked. You don't care about MIR calls, you don't care about professionals, you don't care about professionals. Now they've woken up, now they've remembered that the MIR is needed; one hundred and fifty squares we've lost, which we don't have, because you didn't want to ask them, because they're scars on personnel issues. You have now opened your eyes and found out that more MIR squares have to be requested. We have a chance to reach an agreement, with numbers, with concretion, on the squares that we must work to believe and request, and that is our proposal, which we can adjust in percentages but which should basically go by that line that we propose, according to our position. And one last question is, we have a staff plan. There's a double problem in staff: quantity and quality. We have fewer staff than we ought, less. In primary care, from 2009 to 2019 — official budgets — 1,249 professionals less; 1,249 in ten years; if we leave them a little more, they liquidate the system; 1,249 professionals less. What do we defend? We defend, as the schools of doctors say, as the nurses say, that we call intrinities for those spaces where the coupons are much exceeded, and from there on a commitment of stability, but that we call intrinities already. Why? Because it's necessary to have these professionals. What do we think? That stability must be real. In fact, we have to assume what we are debating when we talk about these contracts to the MIR. We're debating stability as a one-year contract. It must not be — which is — the labour market to give one year's contracts to talk to someone about stability. We therefore argue that it is possible, and it is necessary, to have contracts for at least two years, which the Ministry proposes. And we believe that the Galician Union can and should make that proposal, that variability between two or three years depending on the circumstances, but it is not scarred by contracts of one year, because that's not decent. And that they solve the problem with the CAP professionals at once. What happened fatally last summer can happen again, because they haven't moved a coma from a norm, or a professional from anywhere, they haven't given a single euro, or even if they feel negotiating. Solve the question. How? You sit down and talk, because if you don't want to hear a collective, it's impossible to come to an agreement, or to an act or whatever you're called by the things you do. Those are our proposals. We believe that we must be able to reach agreements in that sense, and if you are now defending yourself from the People's Party that, well, we have planned wrong, that we are wrong, that there is something we can do, to see if they are capable of, besides saying it — to avoid thinking, maliciously, that it is not so, that they want to do a little good because we are in elections, that we are sure it is not that — to reach an agreement and they can vote for something and commit to something, because the truth is that it is worrying what the President said today, that I agree yes but budgeting nothing, that then it must seem that the agreements are very good, but, when there is a real commitment, they are no longer expected. Let's hope they're there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u228	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u229	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Mrs Solla, with regard to what the president expressed in the full past, the president simply said that on that date the strike was not summoned, and that is absolutely true. I would like, of course, to clarify — and then we will talk about it — whether what was signed yesterday is an agreement, a commitment or an act, because Mrs Solla defined it in three ways in the same intervention, and she had to make quite a turn, Mrs Solla, to justify her reaching an agreement yesterday. What you presented in the motion wasn't signed yesterday, for nothing, it didn't signed yesterday for anything. You make a rather particular interpretation of that commitment. Well, I must admit, ladies and gentlemen, that he was waiting in front of the intervention today in the midst of the opposition's voices, after the summons made yesterday of the strike in primary care. I doubt they'd withdraw the motions or not, because they're frankly overrun by the agreement. I also didn't know if the speaker and the opposition spokespersons would be angry, as it seemed today to be a representative of the Primary Care Coordinator who spoke on Radio Gaga this morning and who participated yesterday in the negotiations, or would be glad of the shock. And it gives me the feeling that the opposition groups are not very happy, it has fallen to them the tendency that they had mounted against the government and against the president, and, of course, that goes wrong, it goes wrong frankly; and as a tendency fell, this morning at the beginning of the plenary tried to raise a second trend. I think we all understand each other perfectly well. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, the Health Counsellor and his team showed their ability to negotiate, to reach agreements, as they had already done with collectives and associations, avoiding this strike in primary care of Galicia and the negative repercussions on the people they might have caused. And I'm not going to mention again the measures that the German Government has taken in recent years, but if I'm going to influence two small measures that went out in the press these days. In the offers to family professionals to cover guards located in the CAP in areas where there are more problems, there are already twenty-eight people who signed these offers. And the implementation, for example, of a pilot screening system in primary care decreases — both in the Basque Country and Galicia, which is where this experience takes place — by 75% undemanded appointments. These are solutions, small solutions to the primary problem. And in the face of these problems of primary education, in December, the meetings began, meetings with ten different professional categories that all work in primary care, to achieve a number of measures that contribute to solving the current problem of chronicity and shortage of professionals. In February, the first document was presented with one hundred and seventy-five measures and with the commitment to increase them with negotiations — they arrived at one hundred eighty-three — already supported by nursing, physiotherapy, staff of general services and social workers, among other collectives. At the meeting with schools and scientific societies, virtually everything the opposition groups ask for in the motion was agreed, with the exception of the central government, and what was negotiated yesterday with the strike committee and the union centres, which was basically the creation of a technical committee, with the participation of the trade unions and the meeting of the sectoral table, to solve the problem of work. In addition, with schools and associations, the creation of sixty new family doctor's squares has been signed over the next two years. I ask Mr. Torrado to speak with the Government in Madrid to stop him from doing anything about Galicia, as he did with the bankrupt budgets or on the subject of the investment of the surplus, where he rake amounts and limits its use. That is the behaviour with Galicia of the Socialist Government of Mr Sánchez, supported by the Tides and Podemos — now the Tides and Podemos — before them were the Tides of Podemos. What was it or what was Galician sin? To have a government of the majority of the People's Party, which seems to upset Sánchez and the socialists a lot. Look, ladies and gentlemen, in the one hundred and ten measures put forward by Mr Sánchez for State budgets, there is no single reference to primary care or the first. I would ask you, Mr. Torrado, that you, who are so influential in the Welsh health, had arranged the slowness in accreditation of MIR squares or in the approval of non-community doctors. Of course, the Council has a commitment to cover and fund all those who believe in the Ministry. You can also convince the minister of the possibility of an extraordinary family MIR. It was actually a proposal from the health adviser, but it was accidentally supported by the majority voluntary union, by the Spanish Confederation of Medical Unions, in what you call cheap electoralism. You denied that the document signed with schools and associations was an agreement. Even Mr. Torrado in the past full said that a school had hung on his website and had held this document as an act. Well, look, the document was read by the president and it was for myself in the committee and it says, "We agree." But it is also, ladies and gentlemen, today the chairman of the Galego Council of Medical Colleges, who signed this agreement and who later assured that it was an act, manifests — and so it appears quoted, between quotes, in the newspaper La Voz de Galicia—: "The agreement — referred to yesterday's adoption — does not add more than that which we signed and is even less concrete." Advances or newspapers that "in fact, after signing an agreement with the Council, in March the doctors will no longer wait to require Sergas to apply the measures which included this agreement." Is it or is it not an agreement? - I'm asking. In the same article, it is also stated that schools of students will claim to the composition of this new technical council, because they do not see a proper proportion between the representation of doctors and the rest of the collectives. Was the strike unconvinced — as said yesterday by a former socialist and pediatrician mayor on Radio Galega — because he was only going to be assisted by doctors? Today's newspaper says, "Unconvened the doctors' strike." Today's news and photos of Vigo's doctors' posture refusing the strike call, so they seem to indicate it. [[Mr. Núñez Centeno shows a photograph.]] Would you agree, ladies and gentlemen, that Vigo's doctors would not attend the consultations or limit the number of consultations or telemedicine? Do you think those measures would favor Vigo's population and its area? Which side are you on, gentlemen? Two of Vigo's doctors or the unions they signed yesterday? Because there seems to be certain discrepancies; at least this is evidenced in these photos that we have today. Look, Mr. Torrado, a plan is actually being presented by the Ministry. I'll read you headlines on that plan. "Plan of unmet pledges in primary care. If the Government's election Fridays do not remedy it, the plan does not include funding. Pessimism in the face of the final outcome of primary reform. Doctors don't get their heads out. Health is played face to face or cross the future in primary care. Failure of health with working groups: he was dismissed by the coordinators, eminent family doctors." What about other communities that happen? Doctors and nurses stop in Valencia because of the saturation that suffers from health care. The unions call for the reform of the Cantabria primary. Spain needs 2,217 more family doctors to guarantee assistance. Prisoner is trying to get out of the crisis in the Human Resources Commission. Spring convulsed in Galicia, Valencian Community, Navarre, Aragon and Cantabria. The professionals of these five communities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u230	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u231	...—now four— are mobilized. Obviously, it's not an exclusive Galician problem. It's over, president. The People's Group had tabled an amendment to meet the demands of professionals in primary care on quotas, requests for squares to the Ministry, establishment of primary management, catalogue of supplementary evidence, OPE, staff stability, negotiation with CAP professionals and new squares, always complying with current regulations. We believe it goes on the lines of the pact today, so we understand that opposition groups will accept our amendment. And I end by congratulating the health adviser and his team and the union organizations that participated yesterday in the negotiation for its success. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u232	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u233	Good afternoon again. I have to admit I'm pretty hallucinated, don't I? The People's Party begins well by calling you a "hold", a "hold," a co-ordinator, a strike committee made up of all trade unions, by a coordinator that brings together more than a thousand professionals, and here the People's Party has just qualified them as "hold. " No, no, I suppose they'll be listening and taking notes. [[Murmurs.]] They'll be taking note and I don't know that they'll be thinking of those who signed an agreement acting in good faith, giving a vote of confidence to the Galician Union, listening to the absolute devaluation that the People's Party is making here. I suppose what we all know: that you're not trustworthy, not even half a millimeter. I'm a real pass. [[Applause]] It turns out that not only have nine years passed by denying that there were problems having to correct and accept that there are problems and signing an agreement to sit down and negotiate, but at half an hour of signing an agreement they already said: no, no, no, from the agreed here... now I'm explaining why it wasn't Sergas's advisor or manager to sign anything, because it's clear that this is a dilation maneuver, to continue doing what you know how to do superbly: it looks like they do, say what they do, so they don't do anything at all. You've just made yourself a portrait, Mr. Núñez Centeno, of a reliability that of course...! It's on tape. I suppose those thousands of professionals who acted in good faith thinking that you might have some speech will be hallucinated and hallucinated at this time, because the agreement expresses the need to create a body of participation and analysis, to give a solution to primary care and problems, but of course, it seems not, that this is not signed by anyone. I have here a copy of the record, where -- yes -- she's only the Director General of Human Resources, she's only the Director General; I don't know if they're going to tell her she wasn't authorized, because you're capable of that and beyond; they're also able to say they weren't authorized personal. I called off the strike, where I said, I say Diego, because, created the negotiating framework, which was what was signed — and in good faith — because the downs begin, the downs are already beginning. Núñez Fexóo starts by saying, first, that they were wrong in planning. They haven't been wrong, the videos and the records of this Parliament are here, how many years have we been saying what's going to happen? You didn't make a mistake, you did what you wanted to do, but public health, in their situation. They didn't make a mistake. And then, of course, did they compromise the budget? Ah! no, no, there says nothing to compromise the budget; i.e., wet papers. At half an hour of signing an agreement, the highest representative, president of the People's Party, president of the Government of the Union, he says: no, no, no, it reads well, that here was a dilational maneuver. And not only that, but that before, indeed, the manager of Sergas, in an interview on the Welsh public radio, therefore, asked about one of the fundamental demands of primary care professionals, which is the recovery of a primary care agency, a differentiated organizational structure of the hospital structure, what do Sergas' manager say?: "Home!, I think it is essential that there is greater cooperation between primary care and hospitals, but to improve coordination and systems, which can make the patient not notice the difference in level but that the patient is treated where he or she should." It's the same as: the Union doesn't care if it meets with public or private health; the question is, they'll take care of it. The second phase, the second chapter of: people don't care. I mean, they lie like beans. But yes, people do care, if they care, and it's a fundamental demand. It's a fundamental demand that primary care has its own organizational structure, has its capacity for resolution, has its budgetary capacity and can make its decisions. Because if it matters if you can decide or if someone decides for you and you are the one who has to make the decisions that others make. And that's what you've put on that proposal for improved primary care. A few hours later we actually see what the attitude of the People's Party is. BNG will vote in favour of these two motions that are presented at Marea and the Socialist Party. BNG is going to bring the debate then a non-law proposal which also involves the need to implement measures to improve public health, because the claims are clear and are not resolved by signing a dialogue agreement. Because what we have to do is get those questions and those demands for which a strike was called up, clear demands that go in that direction of recovering the agencies, of labour stability, of budgeting, issues that, of course, are not at all achieved at this point. And time will set and remove reasons, if there's a real will of negotiation or it's a simple maneuver of dilation. Of course, for the one hearing here today, at the moment it seems like a fraud and a maneuver of delay. We'll see what's left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u234	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Author group of the motion, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u235	Thank you, President. First of all, and since the debate is accumulated, in relation to the Socialist Party's motion, to move that we will support the motion. He's got some measures that are very similar to our, different ones, we're generally in agreement with that global proposal. In relation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u236	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u237	With regard to our motion, thank you for the support of the two opposition groups and for moving that we hope that the People's Party will also support this motion. I must remember that the spokesperson for the People's Party, Mr. Centeno, said that in the dialogue of the one who had with the health associations, if he had agreed almost everything we asked for in the motion. So I took note. I understand that the People's Party will vote in favour of En Marea's motion in relation to primary care. And I have to correct you, Mr. Centeno, and check the records, because the records of the past are full. Mr. Núñez Feijóo said that the strike in primary care was a lie, that there was no one and that our group invented strikes. That's the reality, and that's the contempt for primary care professionals, just as you did this morning. And, frankly, I think it's more necessary than ever to defend these points that contain this motion. But we certainly came with another intention of debate, with another intention of debate, and we would have clarified those points which will be worked on in that technical committee, supposedly. By the way, it's an act, it's public, I think you should have it; if you don't, I also make it easy for you, if you don't make it easier for your Health Council, and you say you're committed to a number of issues, which aren't on paper. [[Mrs. Solla Fernández shows a document.]] But I have to remember here that when he gets confused — and I said it before — a strike and a series of commitments, the law — Royal Decree Law 17/1977 — forced him to comply. And we came with an intention, but this morning we heard the president of the board say he won't comply with what they just signed a few hours ago, saying that it's not true that he commits more budget. And you just have to see the fifth point of that commitment: "measures that will be accompanied by an increase in the budget." Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Mrs. Solla Fernández shows a document.]] Point 5, signed by Mrs. Margarita Prado Vaamonde, the Human Resources Officer. I don't know if you're discrediting your Council office or not. By the way, obviously, you didn't want to talk about your amendment, I don't know... we can't accept this and less... In no case do they contain here, at any of the points that professionals claim, nothing that comes to the agreement, and, of course, those primary care addresses, instead of primary care agencies, have already been rejected by professionals. Why do you insist on something that has been refused? Right now you have the possibility to comply with what they agree to or what they commit to or what they sign. Looks like it's not gonna be like that. Well, we'll have another strike, we'll have another strike, because I really can't understand how just a few hours...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u238	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u239	— please — sign a paper, if you are saying that that role is not worth it on the part of the President. I repeat, I repeat and I finish, because I don't have time left.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u240	About the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u241	I've positioned myself.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u242	But I just didn't understand him; I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u243	Yes, there's a lot of noise. No, of course we're not going to accept a replacement amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u244	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u245	And I'm done. They have the possibility -- I said in the first part -- with something signed with themselves -- or, once again, lie.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u246	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u247	Thank you, President. I don't know if we're a lot of "hold you" and you're more than "dabure you" but at last I'm not "dep" but some proposals we had. Let's see if we can discuss it. What if you draw attention to me—I have to say it, excuse me, Mr. Núñez Centeno, you know that without accuracy—is that you, to defend your health policy now, come up here to applaud, to grab, which nail burning, those very ones you here said were going to the demonstrations because they were given buses and snacks. They had to be okay with the sandwiches, huh? [[Applause]] Those themselves now cling to them to say they're doing something good because they give them a vote of confidence. Everyone has the right to rectify; that's true and that's something to recognize. About Mr. Feijóo's ridiculous surplus, there will be a debate tomorrow about it, and allow me to see it more clearly and surely more clearly than I can express. And it is true that the fault — not like it!, could not be otherwise — is that of Pedro Sánchez. I ask myself a question — and it is rhetorical, of course — if the fault of the MIR planning is the Ministry; the resignation of the heads of service is theirs, because they resign; if the emergency saturation is the users, who misuse the system; if the problem of the work of the ambulances is the workers, who have a work problem there with the company; if social discontent is the fault of the manipulative opposition, what does the Council serve? It's not much, but what's the point? If all the serious problems in the health system are another's fault, what does the Council do for? Because then we could also replace the Council, or, in your opinion, cancel it. Then we'll have to have some criteria. Sometimes mistakes are made. Mr. Feijó said today: we planned badly. At least they'll follow you up. It's true that he also said that that deal would be like... because budget allocation, none. That's why I understand there's concern that someone can give a vote of confidence and in a few hours the president comes and say nothing of it, nothing of it. Let's see if it's going to be what we're afraid of -- and hopefully we don't -- that's because there's elections now and tell them: no, well, then we start talking again in June, and they get there and tell them nothing. Let's see if that's not gonna be it. And on the MIR, one hundred and fifty squares lost with the government Feijóo. Let's see if they tell us anything about this. We could have one hundred and fifty MIR more. Next year -- you know -- called the biggest MIR in Spain's history; it's already planned, it's already delivered. Do you know when it was the previous one? With Government Zapatero. You know what happened in the middle? [[Applause]] That we lost nearly a thousand MIR a year. If it's a problem mainly because of your management. Finally, on the amendment, you will understand that our surprise is that they did not withdraw the amendment once they arrived at that supposed agreement yesterday. Because, the truth is, closer to the agreement is what we propose that you vote for. What they're proposing is what they had to keep gathering because they had called a strike. We're not going to approve something that motivated the call of a strike. They have two things that might be interesting to include, and if you want, we include them as adders, not as substitutes. Let me explain both. The first, point 1, which says — you have read textually — "Reorder quotas taking into account the characteristics of the population, strengthening the devices with a high care load." But isn't it done? Aren't we putting more professional now where there's more care? Man, whether we approve it or not, but do it. Put more personnel where there's more care. Man, at least it's okay.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u248	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u249	If they want it, we include it as add and we will vote in favour too. And on point 1(b) of removing the replacement rates, we propose it, not just for the deficits. By the way, it's not the Ministry of Health, it's about Fairy, about the Ministry of Finance; there you have to ask for it, which soon passes as the Bivalvos Laboratory, that they ask where it isn't; you have to ask the Ministry of Finance. If you want to ask the Ministry of Finance, we agree, welcome; they voted seven times against this and now they want to propose it. If those two things are in favour, we will vote in favour and include them as addenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u250	Thank you. We shall proceed to the vote on the motions. Close the doors, please. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u251	We begin by voting on the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro. I do not accept the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. And both the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the People's Parliamentary Group asked for a point vote. Do you accept the point vote?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u252	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u253	So, what points do you ask them to separate? Mrs. Otero. Give a voice to Mrs. Otero's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u254	We request to vote separately point 1 of point (b) and the rest, all together.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u255	Point 1 of point (b) This is what PSOE requests. What about the Popular Parliamentary Group? Give a voice to Mr. Rodríguez Pérez's chair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u256	Is voting point 1 (a)
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u257	Separated?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u258	And then the rest.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u259	Point 1(a)
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u260	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u261	Let's get started. So we are voting first of all on point 1(b) of the PSOE proposal. We vote. Vote of point 1(b) of the motion of the G.P. of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made to the Central Government in relation to employment in the telemarketing sector The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 36; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. Point 1(b) is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u262	Let us now vote on point 1(a) We vote. Vote of point 1(a) of the motion of the G.P. of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made to the Central Government in relation to employment in the telemarketing sector The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 68. The voting is positive. This point was therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u263	Let us now vote on the rest of the points of the motion. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. in Marea, except the points already voted on, at the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made by the Central Government in relation to employment in the telemarketing sector The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes in favour, 36. The result of the vote is negative. These points of the motion are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u264	We now vote on the following motions. It could be together, if they have no drawback. Do you have any drawbacks, Mr. Torrado, do you have any drawbacks? No, if it's unanimous, they could vote together. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] He doesn't want to. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Well, then there's no more unanimity. So we voted first of all for the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea. The amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group was not accepted. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to primary health care. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes in favour, 36. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u265	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group is not accepted. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Torrado? Give a voice to Mr. Torrado's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u266	If the People's Group doesn't provoke them a lot of laughter that I'm talking about... I'm not blonde, but I can be smarter... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u267	What's the matter?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u268	I'm glad you're angry with the words of your fellows, that's all right. I'm glad you're outraged by the statements of the People's Party. Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u269	Silence! What's the point, the important question? What is the important question you want? Silence, please, silence! [[Murmurs.]] Please! Silence! Order, please. Silence! What's the matter?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u270	I'm glad...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u271	No, the question, please! What's the point you want?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u272	I have been planning a proposal from the rostrum to the spokesperson of the People's Party about joining some of the parties and I don't know whether you have accepted it or whether you have considered it or not.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u273	He doesn't think so. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Anyway, what do you want me to say? We shall vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We vote. [[Murmurs.]] Vote, please. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the measures to be taken by the Union of Galicia in 2019 to improve primary care in the public health system The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 36. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u274	After the vote, please open the doors. Now we move on to the fourth point of the agenda. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado and 14 other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Ministry of Development in connection with the Director Plan for the Atlantic Corridor presented on 20 February in Madrid
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u275	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea and by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. [[(G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr Sánchez García and in the light of Rule 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, tabled the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal, Doc. # 48070 (10/PNP-003633).Amendment No 1:You must add to the resolution section 6 with the following text:"6.- The Director Plan for the Atlantic Corridor which must provide for, as a complementary action, the improvement of the interconnection of ports of general interest of the Cantabrian Corn State."Amend No 2:You must add to the resolution part 7, with the following text: "7.- To be guaranteed funding from the EU and from State and/or State Ports, with the corresponding inclusion of proper budgeting and sufficient in the State Port Investment Plan and ADIF as well as from the State General Budget Act, without the contribution of economic funds by the Port Authority of the Crown, so that the work of the railway connection with the Foreign Port of Point Langosteura will be claimed by the European Parliament itself and the European Council of the European Parliament.]] [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block (BNG), at the initiative of Mr Luís Bará Torres, in the light of the Rules of Procedure of the House, presented the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal, Doc. # 48070 [10/PNP-003633].Added amendment:Add at the end of point 5 the following text:"This plan will include at least the following actions: modernization of the Ferro-Ribadeo line; direct connection of Lugo with Santiago; modernization and improvement of the outline of the Ferro-Coruña line; improvement of the Vigo-Porto connection; modernization of the Ourense-Lugo line. As a matter of fact, it will dominate the territory by improving the connections, frequencies and times between the main cities and the towns of Greece."]] Addendum amendment: Add three new points, with the following text: "6. That the final document of the Plan Director includes the rail connection to the ports of general interest, the Seco Port of Monforte and PLISAN, as well as the connection of large business and logistics parks. 7. The processing and approval of the project for Vigo's southern output, with the bid forecast over the year 2019. 8. The transfer of competences and funding with the aim of creating a German neighbourhood train management attempt."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u276	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor of Mrs Barreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u277	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. The proposal brought to this plenary meeting by the People's Group seeks to avoid a further deterioration, or rather, a further deterioration with Galicia of a socialist government, and this in relation to the Atlantic corridor of rail freight transport. In recent times we have spoken on several occasions of this issue, we have reached agreements, all aware of the importance of including the northwest peninsula in the Atlantic corridor, and have also reached agreements the autonomous communities affected by the extent to which they were able to unite to equip themselves with the strength necessary to claim their inclusion in the Atlantic corridor. Well, as a result of that union, these managements have achieved a guarantee of inclusion of the northwestern peninsula in the Atlantic corridor, first with the agreement of the European Commission, then with the agreement of the Council of Ministers of Transport of the European Union, then with the European Parliament itself, and thus the possibility of accessing the European funds of the Connect Europe mechanism, which will be so important for Galicia to be on one of the rail highways of goods passing through the Community territory. As you know, the political setting led to this legacy of these managements receiving a socialist government, so as to ensure the inclusion in the Atlantic corridor of the railway connection of Coruña and León from the Atlantic corridor in Palencia, through Leon, Monforte-Ourense, Vigo and La Coruña, in the next step corresponded to the Ministry of Development. It was precisely about planning, drawing up the master plan for that Atlantic corridor. What did you, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Development, come to this point, that had already overcome that challenge of including us in the Atlantic corridor? So he had two options: the first was to draw up a consensual, participatory plan with the autonomous communities. And the second was what he did. And what he did was that last February 20 presented a master plan in which it was said, in particular, that the actions presented — said the Minister of Development —: "They are meant to compensate for imbalances and recover delays, after decades that the demographic and economic weight had gravitated something more towards Madrid and the Mediterranean". A document for which it also sought consensus and institutional responsibility. The truth is that this document had no consensus or responsibility, and it did not correct any imbalance, quite the opposite. The reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that the Infrastructure Adviser told us on March 12 of the evas, that she was not consensual, of the defects and shortcomings of this document; that she counted as investments actions that were already executed and others that were not in the corridor trace; that she was obvious strategic performances such as the Monforte bypass, the southern exit of Vigo or the Manzanal slope; that she did not collect fundamental railway connections such as connections to port facilities, Plisan or Galician connection to Portugal; and that even affected the own features of the line as she did not contemplate the ERTMS system or the European Union's wide line. It is important to point out, at this point, that the advisor also informed us that Development envisaged less than half of the EUR 3.100 million that the communities considered for the modernization of this itinerary, and we asked ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, what imbalance with the Mediterranean intended to correct Mr Abalos? What imbalance did you intend to correct by referring to the Mediterranean corridor EUR 18 million per kilometre, when the Atlantic Corridor's Master Plan foresees a target of EUR 1.5 million per kilometre? Ladies and gentlemen, this desatino didn't stay there. On March 27, we managed with these headlines: "Fomento says now that it has not yet drawn up the plan director of the railway Atlantic corridor." "The ministry clarifies in a letter to the board that last month only made a presentation of the main lines of action." "I encourage you, without a closed plan yet for the Atlantic corridor." Ladies and gentlemen, this is a fate. Now it turns out that it wasn't even a master plan, it was a sketch, it was a document in the process of management — as they said — and this, ladies and gentlemen, is serious. It is serious because we are talking about a document that will allow us to access European funds. A document that needs a complete planning, concrete, quality and competitive projects and will be presented as soon as possible, ladies and gentlemen. They have to be presented as soon as possible because the first major investment projects must be made precisely in the early years of the Connect Europe Financial Mechanism. So with this negligent action of the Socialist Government, what's happening is that the possibility of real modernisation of our lines, of the north-west line of the Atlantic corridor, is being put at risk, which would enable the European Union to achieve the standards of competitiveness. Let me at this point congratulate the action and work of the Infrastructure Adviser and his team, who has been able not only to demonstrate this wrong action, but also to take the initiative, to address directly to the officials of the European Commission, not only getting the full acceptability to move forward in the momentum of the Atlantic corridor, but more importantly, to ensure that the Greek Government can have participation and something to say in the working groups to encourage the Atlantic corridor, to the point, gentlemen, that it will be the commission itself to be addressed to the Ministry of Development to seek explanations. Mr. Álvarez is kind of funny, but this is really serious. I don't know where you see the grace of this question, Mr. Álvarez. I'm telling you this because you're equally pleased with this imbalance that you're proposing between the Mediterranean corridor and the Atlantic corridor, but to us, really, it doesn't make us funny. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And in fact — as I told you — it will be the commission you are going to demand from the Ministry of Development that not only explains this planning, it will warn you of the need to have concrete projects and complete projects as well. It is regrettable, ladies and gentlemen, that the German Government should direct itself, seek a direct dialogue with the European Union to avoid the disappointments and prejudices that the socialist Government might have caused us. This initiative, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, is aimed at correcting this wrong action by the Ministry of Development. It is about urging the Board to request the ministry, firstly, the referral of the document that was presented on 20 February; a document that we were told was incomplete — the advisor realized that a pen drive had been delivered to him but that, of course, it was unfinished. We also call for a master plan for the Atlantic corridor to be agreed, to collect planning and concrete projects of quality to achieve European funds that translate into a real modernisation of this railway line, putting this corridor at the same level as the Mediterranean corridor. We also asked for the appointment of an Adif commissioner to the Atlantic corridor as if he had done with the Mediterranean corridor. Work intensively to present quality projects and technical documents favoring the receipt of funds in the tranche, on the line, which goes from Vigo to Porto, because as it is not in the Atlantic corridor it may be more difficult to access these European funds. And also the drafting of a plan to preserve and modernise the rest of the Galician railway network so that, in coordination with the Plan Director for the Atlantic corridor, the necessary actions are taken to promote and improve the mobility of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, last January the Minister of Development, Mr. Abalos, pointed out in Valencia that the general budget project in the state of 2019 increased by 93% the investment planned for the Mediterranean corridor. While this happened in Valencia, investments in Galicia fell by 26%, with Galicia losing the most in investments compared to 2018. Perhaps you, Mr. Álvarez, agree with this; to us there is a deep disappointment. One of the first actions of the Socialist Government in relation to the Mediterranean corridor was precisely to appoint a commissioner and also to strengthen the office of the coordinator of the Mediterranean corridor in collaboration with the Valencian Generalitat. That hasn't been done in Galicia. Minister Abalos also stressed that the general budgets for 2019 are the most advantageous for the Valencian Community, and stressed, among other items, the investment in the vicinity, which would increase by 62% compared to the previous year. I don't know, ladies and gentlemen, what imbalances and delays I wanted to correct Mr. Ábalos with that master plan he just presented. We, ladies and gentlemen, will not allow ourselves to be left again, and that is why we will continue to defend the necessary modernisation of the German railway lines that will allow us in the future to place our products in the rest of Europe in conditions of competitiveness. It is now up to you to prioritize Galicia's interest in supporting this proposal. I mean in detail the Members of the Socialist Group, what are you going to do for Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, about what happens to the Atlantic corridor? I believe that they will support this initiative. We can understand the need of Mr. Abalos for his land, but surely you will be in the defence of Galicia, in the modernization of that railway highway that will be the Atlantic corridor; a modernization that will allow a substantial improvement in the mobility of the neighbors, the citizens of Greece; an improvement in the connectivity and logistics of Galicia; and, as a result, an improvement in the competitiveness of our ports and our companies. I hope that you will be able to support this initiative and that we will be able to approve it unanimously. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u278	Thank you, Mrs Barreira. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u279	Mrs. Barreira, your intervention could be titled "The past is abolished. The past didn't exist. "The People's Party has never ruled in this state, in this Greek nation." [[Applause]] Look, you're in a bipartisan career about who discriminates against Galicia the most, and the truth is that counsellor Ethel Vázquez last month did merits when he said, "The communities of the northwest" -- that's just a little bit to do west -- "we've been working for almost a decade to be on the European merchandise network." For nearly a decade, they've done things right, they've set things very wrong! You said, "We're not going to allow them to discriminate against us again." As in 2013, when you, the People's Party and the Socialist Party voted against the inclusion of Galicia in the European Transport Network in the European Parliament. It was you who voted against this issue, and that's why we have to wait now, to be there without access to investments. [[Applause]] Yeah, like that. You know what this is called? Galician betrayal. And he left him, in addition, of course, Mr. Fexóo. He said in February this year, "The northwest has remained silent for too long." He couldn't speak more clearly, for once he said a truth: "The northwest has been silent too long." This could be headlined as that great novel by Louis Martín Santos, Time of silence. Time of silence was Mr. Fexóo's government when he ruled the People's Party in the State and had to shut his mouth. We had to say yes, baboon, we had to say amen, we had to say that everything was all right. And the discrimination against Galicia by the Central Government and the silence of the Government of the Union for a decade explain that we are now in the queue truck, that we are off the state railway map in the matter of commodities. And look, this doesn't say BNG, this said the other day in Coruña. He said, "Our real problem is that it took us 23 hours, one day, to get to Barcelona with a freight train from Galicia." What do you think? Who is responsible for this happening at this height of the 21st century, for that we are in the 19th century railway? Do you have anything to do with what the People's Party and the People's Party ruled in the state, and what then were they shut up? I will no longer tell you what it takes from Santiago to Lugo, which you too must know, or from Lugo to Santiago. Look, we're out of competitive connections in most of the ports of general interest, unrelated to the main logistics nodes and industrial centers, to Plisan, for example, or to the dry port of Monforte, which you too must know well. A business field, without any company, after five years of having opened it Mr. Fexóo. That's the policy you're making in favor of logistics. Yes, I say "I do it" because I speak in English, you say whatever you want. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No electrified tracks in Meirama and Sogama, which are the ones that move the most freight trains in the country. Renfe's locomotives go thirty hours, they don't go up their backs, so one day we'll get to Barcelona! And we also have the shortest convoys in the length of any state. That's the reality, and they'll have something to do with you, who've been ruling all this time. And in view of this view, to this moor, it turns out that now the People's Party and the Socialist Party are in a power point duel, because Mr. Abalos presents the power point of the master plan and the Junta and its partners present another power point of the document of the railway logistics strategy to the northwest, which also has no concrete. And now it turns out that Mrs Ethel Vázquez, the advisor, is going to Brussels and there she gets an advisor from the head of the Atlantic corridor; she doesn't even get a meeting with the head of this matter. I think it was better to try to fix the brown that they have with the millionaire fine because of the situation of our rivers. That's what they should have gone for. You, we have to say that the People's Party and the Socialist Party compete in discrimination against Galicia in terms of investment, infrastructure, rail, and they are responsible for this rail abandonment of Galicia. The People's Party is already for note, because now they're just asking for what they haven't done in the last decade. The reality is, if this master plan presented to us now, had Mr. Rajoy presented it, you'd be applauding with your ears, because they've been doing this in the face of the aggravations and the outrages all this time. So since the BNG we have tabled a series of amendments to include in that modernization plan, fundamental issues such as the improvement and modernization of the Ferrol-Ribadeo connection, the Coruña-Ferrol connection, Lugo connection with Santiago or the southern exit and connection with Portugal, with projects and with budgets, not with the power point sun.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u280	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u281	And also the inclusion in the master plan of those connections to ports, logistics centres, business parks and also projects and budgets. Finally, the transfer of competences in the area of rail, as regards proximity. And we know what the answer is. Mr. Fexóo's answer is we don't want any more transfers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u282	Thank you, Mr Bará. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u283	Not AP-9 either. From this we also know what Mr. Abalos told us, that for Euskadi yes, for Galicia not. Well, BNG doesn't bring that!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u284	Thank you, Mr Bará. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u285	Good afternoon. He said the spokesperson for the People's Party that it is little would be the attitude of the socialist Government. In part, I'll explain, yes. But what's not serious is also the attitude of the German Government, if you can call it that. I don't think it is very serious that Members and Members come here to campaign in this gallery on such important matters. But what's less serious is that the German Government is engaged in campaigning with this issue, which is dedicated to making criticisms of the socialist government when the German Government has not fulfilled its duties at all. The Government of the People's Party is rather a delegation of Government, a provincial deputy, than a government of a country like Galicia. And that's got to get into your head. When did the People's Party start doing something about the Atlantic corridor? When did you start doing something about the Vigo-Porto connection? When did you get in the car? What did you do when you ruled in the Spanish state? What has the People's Group done in the European Parliament? What amendments did you submit to the document you presented to the European Commission which left out of the basic network the Vigo-Porto connection? Nothing! What have you done, Mr Feijóo, member of the Committee of Regions who has tabled amendments to the European Commission document? Nothing! Mr. Feijóo didn't do anything! Where is the board of directors of Galicia, where are the plans to connect with Portugal? Nothing! And they'll say, "Competition isn't ours." A Greek government must have clear priorities in order to take them to the Government of the State, to the European Parliament and where necessary. Where are the projects, where is the work of the Galician Union to improve connections with Portugal? In addition, on top of the seriousness, yesterday I was watching the newspaper and the Infrastructure Advisor explaining that in this non-law proposal they had forgotten to include the financing of the foreign port of Punta Langosteira and that it had been executed. That's what we put in an amendment, in case they want to vote in favour too. The People's Party has forgotten to put into this non-law proposal that we want funding, that we don't pay for it by the harbour authority, that it already has a millionaire debt for the railway connection of the Punta Langosteira, which are the pending duties of the government of Mariano Rajoy, too, by the way. And we also present in our amendment that links to the Cantabrian ports are introduced into that master plan. Also fundamental to Galicia. And finally, as part of the revision of Regulation 1.315/2013, of the basic port network, Vigo is also included in that basic network as the nodal port. And they also attend here a debate where the psoes and PP were put to the head, when they were both responsible for Vigo being nodal port, each at his own time. But it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. It's the election and the campaign. Mr. Esteban González Pons promises that if the People's Party wins, the connection with Portugal will be a priority. And what did the People's Party do in the European Parliament? What did you do? If we could discuss the inclusion of connection with Portugal in the basic network, it was thanks to a Portuguese MEP. Nothing did the People's Party and nothing did in the European Parliament the Socialist Party, who had members in that committee. Still, the result was that you were excluded from the basic network and became on the global network. And that's to be in the second division for funding, for the percentage of funding, and for the period when investments are to be executed, from 2030 to 2050. It's bad news, positively welcomed by the advisor, who was very unwary. And that bad news is the responsibility of the Socialist Government of the State, the Government of Pedro Sánchez, who politically did not bet on this connection and who himself bet on the Mediterranean corridor. It is a political decision, first of the People's Party and the Banishment of Galicia, but also of the Socialist Government, which did not defend the inclusion of the Vigo-Porto connection in the basic network. There's no other reason! This inclusion was approved in the European Parliament. The European Council did not even consider it. And finally, in [...], because he did not defend himself politically by the Socialist Government, he did not include himself. There are obviously shared responsibilities here, but the socialist government does not [...] and it is a political decision, nothing more. So now, of course, they are late, gentlemen of the People's Party, for the struggle for the inclusion of Vigo-Porto in the basic network. They're too late. But now projects have to be made to opt for European funding. So, in those projects, of course, we will have to sue the Government of the State, from a position as unanimous as possible, to do those actions that we want for the future, but — I say — by abandoning these cheap electoral campaign games...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u286	Thank you. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u287	...have a little more serious. Why did you receive the councillor in Europe? These things shouldn't be done that way. That's why, if you qualify as a negligent act of the Socialist Government, how does it qualify the performance of the Greek Government, which has been in Babia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u288	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u289	Here, in this Parliament — and it is over — who has driven initiatives to defend Galicia's inclusion in the Atlantic corridor was the Group of the Red Sea, no initiative by the Group of the People's Party before...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u290	Thank you, thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u291	...of that inclusion. So, something serious...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u292	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u293	...some rigor and some honesty with citizenship.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u294	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u295	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u296	Thank you. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u297	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank all the House groups for the ease of altering the agenda and discussing this LNP today, rather than the rest. Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira, now it turns out that approval or not, despite the absolute majority of the People's Party, of this non-law proposal lies with parliamentarians of the Socialist Parliamentary Group of Galicia. In order not to suffer unnecessarily, I'm going to tell you that we're going to support this non-law proposition, so I'm going to save you about four minutes and twenty seconds of suffering and uncertainty if this non-law proposition didn't go ahead. You will not break, at least as far as our parliamentary group is concerned, the unanimity that we have achieved permanently in this Parliament in defence of the Atlantic corridor. And I will allow myself to say — although they have already said it, and I will therefore repeat it — that the only thing Mrs. Infrastructure and Mobility Adviser achieved yesterday in Brussels was a photograph or two with Parliament's advisers. And with all my respect to the advisors, I think that, except for the photographs, they could have saved the trip and made a skype with the advisors, which was much cheaper for all of us to pay for in this autonomous community, because the reality is what it is. [[Murmurs.]] But we're going with a little chronological order. First of all, from a background, indeed, on February 21st, the project was presented in Madrid or a preliminary project — as they would call it — of the Atlantic corridor. That project or project or power point raised doubts in the Galician Union, and the Infrastructure Holder addressed the Ministry of Development requesting the full plan. So far everything seems to be reasonable. The question is that the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Housing itself acknowledged — as it is obvious — that what had been presented was something that was not yet, of course, finished at that moment in an initial management process. So those were the main lines of government action for a very broad and strategic corridor, all the way north-west of the Iberian Peninsula, and that the technical teams of the Ministry and Adif, just like the technical teams of the Infrastructure and Mobility Council would elaborate the complete document with all the documentation you need, extensive, complex and long technical documentation to elaborate, because, obviously, we're not talking about putting up a square metre of concrete to make a barrier next to a road, we're talking about a large infrastructure. Almost simultaneously — as Mr Sánchez has already referred to before me — by the Autonomous Communities of Galicia, the Principality of Asturias and Castela-Leon sent to the Ministry of Development that document which has already been referred to and I will therefore not repeat. But if I'm interested in making a nuance with respect to that document. The Ministry of Development itself told the Council that it would be very interesting — it read this in somewhat shocking terms — that in addition to that plan, that power point or that Free Office, that I don't know what software they did, if I also forwarded the technical documentation that supported that plan, technical documentation that, as far as we can see, does not exist for now. Because, of course, the same complexity that the Ministry of Development has is going to have the competent councils of the three autonomous communities to document the alternatives they propose. So I think it's a matter of a little respect, not to politicians, not to the minister, not to the advisor, but to technicians of one administration and another who take the time necessary to prepare such documentation completely. And the top of the ridiculous, the smart, is that the counselor says she's out of a meeting with an adviser or an adviser and they're going to claim the documentation to the Ministry of Development. The Ministry of Development has become a fool since it ruled the Socialist Party in Spain. They don't know how to build a project, they don't know what documentation to provide. And I want you to clarify something, if you do the favor, in your intervention. I have heard the Rural Councillor say here that he attends meetings in the European Union accompanying the Minister of State, whoever he is. I also understand that the advisor will go to those meetings with the Minister or Minister of State, whoever the minister or minister is. I don't think it is necessary for Mrs Ethel Vázquez to tell the Government of the State what meetings they can attend, who are the assistants and who are going to treat, I think they already know. So I think we're dealing with each other of functional illiterates outside — even — the short debate of the impertinence of the electoral campaign. I insist that, if it is not clear to you, we will also support this useless initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u298	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Group author of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u299	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Bará, manipulating is not the same as arguing. You come here, you say things, but you have to argue. Dean's solid arguments. You say, Mr. Bará, that they've been negotiating for ten years... do you know when the plots of the Atlantic corridor were negotiated? In 2009 and 2010. Who ruled in the years 2009 and 2010 in the Central Government? The People's Party, as everyone knows. In the years 2009 and 2010 he ruled the People's Party in Central Government. That's right, yes, Mr. Zapatero's budgets supported them by the Galician Nationalist Block. No, no, but they supported us, didn't they? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They had a lot of opportunity to claim and demand budgets to renew and modernise the railway network in Greece, for example. You're told that you had to say "yes, baboon" and that everything was okay when I ruled the PP. Look, if all the management and claims that have been made concerning the Atlantic corridor, they've made from the German Government to the Government of Mariano Rajoy! If it went to the Government of Mariano Rajoy who had to be asked, and in turn to request the European Union, the inclusion of the northwest peninsula precisely in the Atlantic corridor. Oh, it wasn't like that! It wasn't like that. That was not the case. Look, it's all documented, check out the hemero library. Because, of course, they come here and say, "It's October 2017." See, in December 2017, in Slovakia — Slovakia or Slovenia, I have the question now — I am in favour of Minister De la Serna asking the European Union to include the northwest peninsula in the Atlantic corridor. That's right. You can come here and say what you want, but reality is there and it's documented. You speak of the dry port, Mr Bará. Look, I know exactly how dry the port was, eh! And I know well that between the years 2005 and 2009 the dry port has been more dry than ever, without a stone, Mr. Bará!, without a stone! And he had to come to the Welsh Government, at the end of 2010, urbanize and make connections to the dry port. [[Applause]] So don't tell me about the dry port. Look, do you think it's bad that the infrastructure advisor is receiving in Brussels? Hey, but why is it wrong? You, on the one hand, complain and say that we are silent, and on the other hand, when the Infrastructure Adviser reacts to this urgent and important situation and goes to the European Union, it turns out to be bad for them. Well, what about the Spokesman of En Marea, who says this is a little serious attitude in election campaign! Hey, look, let's see, this document that presented it? He was introduced by the Socialist Government. If you want, we call on you to support them, but, in this case, this document, the Minister of Socialist Development, Mr Abalos. Some responsibility will have the Podemos group, but in this case, the socialist minister, Mr Abalos. He says we did it when we ruled. And you, Mr. Sánchez, what about you? What did you intend with regard to the improvement of the German railway connectivity when they questioned the AVE, when they questioned any... the only ones, but we know perfectly well that, if it were for you, the AVE would not reach Galicia, Mr. Sánchez. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u300	Quiet. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u301	Tell you where we were these years. Well, you know where we were? You should know. We were in that the revision of the Atlantic corridor has some time and the Financing Mechanism Connect Europe too, and it opens when it opens. And open now, Mr. Sánchez. It's open now, sir. That's why we're where we are. And you say: the port of Vigo is out! Hey! I remember perfectly well in 2011, with Minister Ana Pastor, when we detect that exclusion from the port of Vigo and modify the plot of the network to head for Ourense towards Vigo. If you don't remember, inform yourself, but this is the case, Mr. Sanchez. [[Applause]] And I'm telling you one thing, so the Infrastructure Council had been in Brussels. You say: these things should not be done like this. Look, how should we do it? I mean, if we shut up, because we're quiet; if we go to Brussels, because we're going to Brussels. Mr. Sánchez, really...!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u302	Finish, please. About the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u303	And to finish, on the amendments we have the best willingness to reach a unanimous agreement, and, of course, we will try to reach an agreement. But I am done, Mr President, simply referring to Mr Álvarez's intervention, when he says that all this is electoralist and that this is a useless proposal. Hey! If you had a sketch, an unfinished document, if you had nothing!, wasn't the electoralist presenting it on February 20 in Madrid, when what was absolutely nothing, Mr. Álvarez? Isn't that an electoralist?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u304	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u305	In any case, I thank you for your support and, of course, I hope we have reached a unanimous agreement. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u306	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Galicia in the face of the situation of public health in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u307	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u308	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u309	The BNG is presenting the debate of this non-law proposal, an initiative with proposals to promote public health, for a change of course diametrically opposed to that of harassment and the fall in which the People's Party has been subject to Welsh public health. Because health care, by placing a sign on top of hospitals, no matter how big that cartel is, doesn't become public. Health is public, universal, free and quality by practicing these concepts, practicing that it is really public, that it is of quality, that it is universal, that there is accessibility, that there is equity, that there are professionals enough to meet the needs of the population, that these professionals are not mistreated, that there is no labour policy of slavery, of total precariousness. Health is public practicing and not preaching. And, of course, the People's Party does what it does is preach and not practice. There are people who have heard the intervention of the People's Party's health spokesman, and there are already enough scandalized people who have not yet dried up the ink of the signature of an agreement between the strike committee that was convened for today, 9, 10 and 11, an agreement in which good will was manifested, a vote of confidence to the Galician Union, and it turns out that there have already begun to be scores and casualties. Unmarried by the President of the Union, saying that in the agreement there is nothing to do with the budget, and let go of the manager of Sergas, which makes it quite clear that there will be no such differentiation between primary care and hospital care, that there will be work on cooperation, coordination, but different administrative structures, nothing at all. The still undry ink, and the People's Party demarcating and wagging, together with what you just said here, the people's party's health spokesman, that the strike committee, all the unions and the primary care coordinator are a "hold you." It's a real lack of respect for thousands of workers represented by these collectives on that strike committee. You can see clearly the will of the People's Party: that in the face of claims more than fair, more than necessary, an agreement that seems to have no real willingness to negotiate and seems to be a maneuver of delay. Of course, the invocation of a primary care strike does not mean that the outrage of professionals ceases because of all the decisions that the People's Party has made, because the solution goes through real solutions, real measures, and by restoring the deep damage caused to health in our country, the damage caused to the Greek public health. That's why the initiative that we are presenting here today is the BNG, and the demands that are contemplated in it, are fully in force. Of course, as soon as these objectives are not met, the BNG will continue to bring to this Parliament measures to demand a clear and determined commitment to our country's public health. We continue to believe that the counselor of Germany is not a valid interlocutor. In fact, tomorrow we'll tell you in the interpellation that we're going to substance here in Parliament. Of course, he didn't even have the courage to go to that negotiation, and we believe that his cessation must be made. And we continue to demand that the Galician Parliament take the measures we are going to set out now, in a clear assumption that the health policy that is destroying Galician public health needs to be rectified. The first is the budget argument for health. It is clear that, without real budget, this cut accumulated since 2009 of more than €2,000 million, that in the budgets of this year 2019 primary care continues to have 188 million less annual than ten years ago, than in 2009, is evidence that the budget has to increase. We propose that primary care must have at least a 20% increase, and that, either there is a real commitment, or, of course, the other is wet paper. We demand the dimensioning and stability of staff paintings. We continue to say that, if there are 6,000 squares offered in transfer contests, there are at least 6,000 structural squares that are covered or deserted by possible personnel, that they need to be covered by stable and dignified contracts, that replacements are for the entire absence. Yesterday, the BNG received in this Parliament a group of nursing professionals who were moving us a more evident proof — and it was far more than palpable — that there is a stable staff deficit in the Galician Union: the problems that the Board has to cover for casualties during the oppositions to staff have made it happen. It's evidence. If there had been such stability, there would now be no problem covering these squares. They also move us that abuse in recruitment, in the form of accumulation of tasks, remains permanent. There is a type of recruitment that makes it impossible to obtain permits in a habitual way; permits that are entitled to all workers and workers, and they have many difficulties in being able to reconcile with their families, since this job forces them to stay 24 hours a day waiting for a phone. They have to accept contracts even three hours before they start the shift, and sometimes even less; i.e. a real slavery, they have to be at Sergas's disposal. And he has already denounced it on hundreds of occasions here in this Parliament, of accumulating contracts per hour or day, even 60 concatenates in 60 days; that is, a real barbarism. And then a very worrying question, too. They're forcing inexperienced people to link themselves to places where they would need experience, such as ICU or surgical ones. And they are forcing people who have no experience in these sensitive services, and who need that experience, to accept those contracts; that is, another recruitment policy is necessary, and until that is achieved, the BNG will continue to bring initiatives to this Parliament. Removing wait lists by hiring staff, operating all resources. You might try to paint the way you want the status of waiting lists, but the reality is that anyone who goes out on the street, who has a health problem, and if you ask him, he knows that they wait for months and years to be cared for. Months to get the first consultation, months for the diagnostic test, months later they need surgery. That's the reality you're trying to hide under a cluster of propaganda and makeup lists, non-structural lists that hide that reality. Retrieve primary care agencies, as I've said before, with resolution capacity, with decision-making capacity, with budgeting capacity. And, of course, increase the markets of specialists in Pediatrics, in Family Medicine and Community Medicine. We insist that, if there is currently a shortage of professionals, it is because both the People's Party in the Galician Union, as well as the governments of the Socialist Party and the People's Party, who have put in place a replacement rate precisely designed to undermine public health, with the impossibility of being able to hire staff or to do OPE for existing needs, have led to this situation. Improving equipment in health centres and in CAPs, ensuring complete equipment in CAPs — this is a question that Sergas does not intend to achieve at present, nor does it intend to reverse the privatization and management of the health services themselves, because Galicia is the territory of the State where it has increased the start for private health concerts. That's what the private health report says: bringing value to the Institute for the Development and Integration of Health, to private health, that says that 62% of Galician hospitals are private; that says issues like that 23 out of 37 hospitals are actually private; that is the fourth largest percentage of the Spanish state; that 24% of hospital beds are private; that is, that's where the concert grows with the private. In short, measures to bet on public health rather than private health, as the People's Party is doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u310	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u311	Thank you, Mr. President. "Elena, you'll win the elections because you're blonder and smarter." Ana Pastor, Vigo, April 6, 2019. Even if he's cheating on them, we thank you for sharing that these statements are unacceptable, unbearable and absolutely despicable. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] By the way, allow them... those we already share are despicable. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In one of the safe parts we disagree, but I give you my opinion: you won't win the elections in Vigo. But we all share, and it's okay, even though they have to do it by always seeing the beam in the alien eye, that things are sometimes unbearable, regardless of who says it, and even if they have to be made onion in the full. All right, thanks a lot for sharing. Tell Ana Pastor, please. We share this initiative and we agree on the line I put forward. Of course, we are all aware of the defences we make and of the positions we hold in what corresponds to public health. We share those fundamentals, we present an amendment, in fact pretending not to replace completely, but if we can, or at least to bring to our position, the necessity of realising. The proposal is conceptual, which — I insist — we share and we are in favour. Let's plan, if BNG considers it reasonable, to try to come up with some specific questions if he sees it that way. In any case, if not, we will also be in favour, because what we basically defend is what we have seen counting not only on this whole, but on all the previous ones. There's an essential, necessary issue in this health system and we don't have one. There's a staff problem, and we need to provide staff with the highest quality possible, in terms of numbers and in terms of quality of work. For two questions: in numerical terms, because we're satuating professionals. It's beginning to produce the highest number of job stress casualties we have in Sergas and that have been collected in recent years, and it's going to go further; and this is a problem added to the lack of staff. And we're also saturating the best we have in the system, which are the professionals; a system that works thanks to the professionals and despite the managers. In this sense, in addition, we share that there is a problem of working quality, not only because there are few professionals, we have a problem of saturation, but because many of them are in a precarious situation. About 30% of Sergas' professionals are in a situation of eventuality, although, surprisingly, the Council says it's around 12% or 11%. It's practically impossible to make this account even by tricking the system, even so. As I say, we have raised some specific questions, which we have already defended in the previous motion and which come to defend something that professionals have been asking for for for for quite some time, which is precisely that, time. Time to take care of people. If there are fifty patients a day — fifty patients a day is a fairly common average in many health centers, in some even more — receiving patients from 9 to 14, as many professionals have -- some start before and end after -- it gives to -- not going out at all -- devote five minutes per patient. Five minutes per patient, when there are older people who are late to enter, who have mobility difficulties, who even have to take off some clothes have difficulties... five minutes doesn't give practically any to greet! It's unacceptable, and we're delivering our system to a quality deficit as it's probably never seen before. That's what professionals say, who need time, and time means that for the same job there have to be more people, because you can't come to supposed agreements without budgeting. You can't be warned that there will be more professionals without budgeting. You can't assume that we're going to call a lot of squares, or ask for a lot of places to be called — that others call them and pay them, of course — if we're not willing to budget them. We have 1,249 professionals less in primary care than ten years ago, and the road is worse if we don't take action. Now we see how the People's Party — the advisor in this case — is deciding something different every day. Every day, the problem is one, the next day it's another, we're rowing; like the bad players, they're rowing a lot until they leave the field and don't do anything about the ball. And we have the problem that they're trying to respond to the situation to get out well, but not to solve the matter. Mr. Feijó said we had a bad plan. Let's see if some decisions are made about it from there, because assuming you're planning badly, but leave the same people who planned badly, because it's not a lot of sense. Besides — and it's important, to see if anyone in the People's Party is possible to make it happen — if that was supposed to have agreed yesterday with some representatives was for what they were saying there was no budget allocation: that that's to raise budget, nothing; wage improvements, none, I think, literally said. So, that someone really clarifyed if what was done was to get out ahead of time to wait for the election to pass and then go back to the previous system...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u312	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u313	...or if it's possible that these agreements have some progress. We defend our amendment as a realization, with the will to reach an agreement if possible. If not, we shall vote in favour as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u314	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u315	Thank you, President. We announce that we will support the non-law proposal because, if we have any difference at any point, it is not a substantial difference, and we decide, in fact, not to amend it. The BNG proposed an increase in the budget of up to 20%, we presented 25%. There is no temporary reference. I think that by those terms, in general, we agree, and you can also consider the time frame that will help you; we also agree, globally, with what you might call staff. And unfortunately we've heard already in the previous debate what the people's party is planning, which is actually signing a thing at a time given within a commitment to union power stations and lying a few hours later saying that it's not going to budget. And I insist again, point 5 of that commitment contained in this concluding act of negotiations between representatives of the Galician Health Service and trade union organizations is in writing, it is to be welcomed. However, it is now said that the budget will not be increased. And I didn't understand why previously an initiative was not supported, when it was said here, when it was held, that it was already assumed within the agreement that had been with the professional associations in this case. The initiative of the proposed group includes, in addition, what it has to do with privatizations and compensations. Obviously, in general terms we agree, and we have also defined here on multiple occasions initiatives in relation to the involvement or with which I have assumed the application of Royal Decree 16/2012 — very important now that we are at the door of a new general process — and with regard to privatizations in this case. But in relation to the public health staff, we had precisely that appearance of the manager of Sergas, Mr Campa, recently in the 5th Health Commission, in which it seems that we are finally explained how the calculation is done — we have been asking for a long time — by the Galician Board of Professionals in the Galician Health System. And it looks like it's a fixed picture of a moment that, according to the manager, could be a day, it could be a month or maybe a year. And you take the fixed picture of professionals who are working. Of course, even if it's a year old, if you take the fixed picture of the professionals you've been working on, you count all the potentials and professionals that aren't in a position of staff, you've got a statuary; and you're therefore caught up in offering the number of professionals within the Galician Health Service. That's why the People's Party seems to be more professional, when more than a thousand squares have actually been removed within public health. So we agree with the need to increase that number of professionals. And in that part of a job, there's a written commitment, which we understand, so it's said here, that it's not going to be fulfilled and that it's also not concrete. And I come back to another element in the initiative, which is the one referred to on the points of continuous attention, which I have already referred to in the previous speech and in our motion that we discussed earlier. There's a violent strike that has had some claims that have been the same for a year and a half, that are written and that, as we said here, some of them wouldn't even have to be discussed, because they're those of compliance with the legal minimum of rest and even the allowance of diets and permits stipulated by law. And that's the only element in which the Health Council agreed to provide something, something that they shouldn't even be negotiating. The negotiating terms on the minimum number of professionals so that we have not discovered them at the continuing attention points, and all those elements that we have been debating here for so many months, unfortunately not only are they not negotiating but I insist — and I have already said so — that Sergas will not negotiate it with the strike committee of the continued attention points. It's news of last Friday that got up from the negotiating table without even beginning to debate any of the points. And we remember that article 5 of the Royal Decree Law 17/1977, on working relations, obliges the Galician Council to negotiate with the strike committee, because it is the one to whom legal, trade union and administrative actions are due to resolve the labour conflict. Unfortunately, you're not responding. They should be sitting in order to reach an agreement that will also raise to the sectoral table. But this isn't like this, and it seems that the rules on work here are useless, the content of how the Council of Galicia is working. We — I say — regardless of the percentage proposed by budgeting, the number of squares or the time period offered, in general terms we agree and we understand that it is time that it is indeed also committed to a budget by the Council of Galicia, which seems to be half clear...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u316	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u317	...on the compromise proposal. But it seems, as far as we've just heard, that you won't respect it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u318	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. On behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs. Amigo Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u319	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Gentlemen of the BNG... and ladies. [[Murmurs.]] I'm trying to save the words. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I have to tell you that, when I was reading your proposal, and but now, listening to them, still knowing their theme with the constant disqualification of the Galician Health Service, this elaborate and continuous account that full after full bring here, they believe me to be left to a perplexity. I don't know what interest you have in continually trying to destroy and harm the excellent health that, little by little, we have achieved among all governments, to improve in our autonomous community. They're continually lacking the truth, they're obsessed with that image of health that only you have in your head. It's imaginary health that they try to create all the Greeks. [[Murmurs.]] But, look, the Greeks know perfectly well that the government of the People's Party of Galicia manages and ensures that the health we have today, and that we enjoy, also for future generations comes to have the same benefits. You're talking about thousands of people protesting about health. I, as you all know, are healthy, and I invite you to listen to those thousands of health users who are treated every day in Sergas, who each day see their health problems solved, to patients of different pathologies who need health care both in primary and hospital care, who attend public health services, some serious, other chronic, and who need to be cared for, diagnosed and treated. I repeat that if you had asked the thousands of patients what they think of Sergas, they would see — and this is also reflected in the multiple surveys — that most users are satisfied or very satisfied with the attention they receive. And they're also proud of the health we have. But you're talking about disaster, propaganda and manipulation. No wonder you're an expert. Let's talk about data and numbers. Look, the Galician Health Service has a budget of 3,984 million euros, the highest figure in the history of our autonomous community. It has 38,000 professionals, 466 primary care centers, 90 CAPs and 14 hospitals. By the way, many of these hospitals and health centers are new or reformed. In these services were dealt with in 2018, 26,601,377 primary consultations, 794,731 more than in 2008 — with that two-party government than you suspect —; 2,835.102 telephone consultations; more than four million hospital consultations; more than one million emergency consultations; and more than three million diagnostic tests were carried out. I could still give you data, but, look, we all know them. We listened to the advisor in the multiple appearances, in which he valued our health system, which did nothing but improve since the government of Nuñez Fêsóo — Feióo — arrived at the Union — sorry, both Greek and Spanish already confuse me. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] It's proven that Galicia today has more budgets than in 2008, more percentages of health budgets, more staff, more family doctors, more pediatricians and more nursing than in 2008; and lower budgets for concerts, as much as you talk about and more weigh them. Look, Mrs. Prado, you're still on your mind about your imaginary health about a case. We speak of reality, of data and of truth. And we're talking about the future. If the Greek health had been like you for ten years saying it is, how could it be that the Greeks have twice renewed trust in this government? Or do you think the Greek people aren't a smart, caring people who can hear and know what they're dealing with? I believe that, as you well know from the election results, those results that have year after year, it's not a town that's easy to fool. You'll understand that we're not going to support your proposal and less the demand for the counsellor's termination. Two days ago, a strike came to light because this advisor was able to reach an agreement with the unions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u320	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u321	...—it's over—just as you did when you signed the new model of continuity contract. This agreement is added to the agreement reached by this advisor with medical schools and scientific societies, which for you was an act. Then...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u322	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u323	...they signed too. And I end by saying that the People's Party's Parliamentary Group defends the action of the Lord...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u324	Thank you very much, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u325	...Vázquez Almuínña, who is doing a great job in improving and updating Greek public health.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u326	Thank you very much. For the author group of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Prado Cores has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u327	Thank you, President. I want to start by thanking the support expressed by En Marea and the Socialist Party. And then, as we will not vote until tomorrow, we will accept, if you agree with a transaction, the amendment of the Socialist Party in some respects — and as added, not substitution —. And with regard to the killing expressed by En Marea, the initiative says "increasing investment to a minimum of 20%" is not the maximum, but it is "at a minimum". Of course, we are aware that all experts consider that the ideal is 25% of the total budget of the Administration, in this case of the budget of the Union. And in addition, we have established that, immediately, it will be with a budget of EUR 200 million; and, in this sense, we have already tabled a bill, which will bring the debate as soon as it is available, where we set out where to get it from. We immediately set out, if possible, to allocate resources, real budget, for primary care — two hundred and many million euros — and say where to get them out, what departures and what taxes can be implemented to execute this year 2019; not in premature times, not in different times, but in real time, which is what primary care needs. Because the solutions do not go through appearanceal measures, they do not go through patches, but through real measures to restore the deep damage caused by the People's Party to public health in Galicia, which is the most profound damage caused. I have to keep insisting on you, Mrs. Friend, that public health defends itself by practicing public health, not preaching, by practicing public health. And public health is practised with investments, with staff, and defending it, not trying to make us swallow with mill wheels. Look, the report of the Institute of Private Health is the report of the Institute of Private Health, not invented by the Nationalist Block of Wales. He says Galicia allocated 229 million euros to concert games in 2016. It accounts for 5,9 % of the health expenditure. Annually, 1.1% increased; and in the last year, 9.3% increased. It's the private health report itself. I don't know, maybe you have to draw your attention to making the data that you're trying to hide and hide under tons of propaganda. But reality is teimuda and the data is what they have, what they exist. Despite his attempt to hide them, they exist. Just as there is a very high dissatisfaction among public health professionals, as there is a very high dissatisfaction in the population, in the Greeks and Greeks, who see how they have to wait for months and years to be cared for, and who agree — this data is evident — more and more to private health, not because they have resources, not because they like to go to private health, but because the public system is not responding to their health problems. That's exactly the problem. And the person responsible for this situation is not a biblical curse, it's the health policies of the People's Party. In the face of these health policies, there are real alternatives, such as those that we bring here today, the BNG, which we will bring back, and which mean a complete change of course in its health policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u328	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Paz, I wasn't in the debate and I don't know what happened. The vice president is here and can still clarify anything.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u329	I don't know, Mr. Vice President, whether or not it is. It's just that I wasn't in the debate, I'm sorry. But, in any case, you raise the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u330	Yes, during the previous debate, the representative of the Socialist Group put in Mrs. Pastor's words the following literal phrase: "Elena, you will win the elections because you are prettier and blonder." I want to flatly deny that such words never took place; at least, in Mrs. Ana Pastor's words, what she told Mrs. Muñoz and other candidates, women and men of the People's Party, is that, when you win the election, any candidate seems taller, more handsome and smarter. I believe that when a Member commits a linguistic incorrection of a macho character, it is up to him to apologize, to admit the mistake and not to twist the words of third persons to justify the injustifiable. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u331	Well, it's corrected for inaccurateness. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, I'm sorry. Let's see, I said I wasn't in the debate. I don't know. Now, the vice president tells me he did. [[Mr. Fernández Leiceaga asks for the floor.]] Mr. Leicega asks for the floor. Well, let's see... No, I don't know what it is for, but he asks for the word and, in principle, I have to know what he asks for it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's the right thing to do. What do you want the word for, Mr. Leicega?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u332	I would like to know on the basis of which Article of the Rules of Procedure this intervention took place in order to be able to use it in the future. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u333	Well, what do you want me to say? I wasn't in the debate. No, please, I wasn't, I wasn't! [[Strong murmurers.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, that's it! Silence! Anyway, well, anyway, I don't know... Well, let's discuss the other non-law proposal and give this something more serious, which is what comes along. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of In Marea on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the independence of public office, the regime of incompatibilities, conflicts of interest, rotational doors and possible cases of illicit enrichment in autonomous institutions
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u334	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u335	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u336	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the object and the display of this non-legislative initiative is to explain why there are people and political organizations that we say, without any kind of complex, that rotational doors are another way of legalized corruption and that we therefore propose that they should be criminalized. We present at the state level a bill, and non-law proposals in all autonomous nations and territories to have a specific development, and we are open to their debate and to see how it can be executed in every territorial reality. That's why we appreciate the amendment of the Socialist Party. And although we will certainly not agree at all, at least we recognize your self-criticism. At least they bring proposals for their debate here and they don't elucidate the problem, they talk about it, they talk about it and they don't want to pretend that nothing happened or that this problem doesn't exist. We're on an election campaign, and more than ever, we have to remember. To talk about certain issues, we have to get rid of hemerothecs, examples, and memory. There aren't so many of them, and they've been broadcast on state-level television channels, different documentaries. There was one in particular who was the audience leader, who was entitled: "The rotating doors, responsible for the obstacles to solar energy in Spain?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Felipe González in Natural Gas, José María Aznar in Endesa, Elena Salgado and Pedro Solbes also in Endesa, Ángel Acebes and Manuel Marín in Iberdrola... and they asked themselves, and we asked ourselves many citizens, how it is possible that politicians and policies legislate against electricity, or any other company or multinational, if they then work on them and for them. It is a question that, of course, in view of what has happened in this country, of the scandal that has happened in this country, of the widespread corruption of this country, it deserves an answer, and we deserve concrete and effective proposals so that a few do not use their public office to make decisions against the majority; not only in their personal interest to benefit, through it, the great multinationals, but, I repeat, against most who have to rule — and often in a completely opaque way —. In view of this controversy, in certain newspapers — as in the Public Journal — a record was made that revealed in 2017 that 58 former senior positions worked in that year for companies belonging to Ibex 35, which spent more than 18 million euros on remunerating those who belonged to their boards of directors, according to data from 2016. We can start with examples. The former presidents of the Government, Mr González and Mr José María Aznar, are not, in fact, the only politicians who have used the rotational doors to earn a lot of money, to work for the private company, who have allowed many to become millionaires and enjoy wages they never had while they were in public service. There are a lot of examples. Let us quote more: the number two of González between 1991-1995, Narcís Serra, presided over Caixa Cataluña and later Cataluña Bank, with the disastrous results we have all known; three former economic ministers, the Socialists Pedro Solbes and Elena Salgado and the popular Rodrigo Rato — namely, "the economic miracle" — worked and work in large companies as advisers or advisers, except Mr. Rato, who we all know is now the best life — in the judicial sense, which is understood, that one should not misunderstand, please. In political life, I mean business, it's in all cases of companies operating on regulated markets: Solbes, advisor in Enel, the Italian semi-public company that bought the Spanish electricity Endesa in 2009, after a few rocambolesque negotiations loaded with political interests; the successor of Solbes, Mrs. Elena Salgado, is precisely advisor to Chilectra, subsidiary of Endesa. The energy sector takes the palm as shelter for high office, regardless of colors and ideologies. Because we want to make it clear that this is a structural system problem not only for parties. And although the PP has the gold medal in this, we have to say that this affects everyone at all. Those who rule and those who can rule must be prevented, without exception. And that's why almost half a hundred politicians and family members are on the list of companies in the electricity sector. Endesa's board of directors was among his honourable members in Luís de Guindos. In addition, today's advisor to Endesa, Catalan politician Miquel Roca, a character who gives the impression of being everywhere when it comes to exercising influence and making money. On the board of directors of Enagas, attended by the state by 5%, they say the media that there are so many militants of the People's Party that the company could hold their meetings on Genoa Street. Of the sixteen advisers of society, five are close to the People's Party: Antonio Hernández Mancha, Ana Palacio, Isabel Tocino, Gonzalo Solana, Luís Valero. And none of them specializes in energy, and they don't have business management experience, curiously. Angel Acebes is another of Mr. Aznar's closest collaborators, who has been President of the Government, and has been seated since 2012 at the Iberdrola Board of Directors. We can follow: the former Minister of Defence Pedro Morenés is another prominent user of the turning doors. And it's always trying to justify the political file, the political file by companies, arguing that it's people who have an experience and a criterion for their professional political development. But they do not actually hire them by their professional competence -- that's a fallacy -- or by their technical knowledge in the sector in question, but by their contacts, their domination of the sources of power, or simply by their belonging to a dominant caste that does not usually leave their members untied. This is the only way to explain that a person like Mr. Rato was an advisor to Telephonic, Santander Bank, and that, after the outbreak of the scandal of the black cards and their passing and sinking Bankia, all these companies, not only the People's Party, have to go down their heads and go through a lot of shame to have counted this character as a star member of their distinguished advisors. And not only at the state level, in Galicia, too. We see that there is a lot of talk here about different issues of health and rotational doors, for example, in the health crises, or in the crisis of Povisa. The auditor of Povervisa, Deloitte, participated in the fusion of the Welsh boxes, the disastrous fusion of the Welsh boxes, and the outflow of the Bankia stock, and he did not find the millionaire holes of these financial institutions. Maria Luisa Brandt, who then worked in Deloitte, was an auditor of Caixanova during the current crisis and was a manager of Povervisa. After the arrival of Feijóo to the Italian Government, Rocío Mosquera — the famous former councillor — was appointed director general of Sergas and later health adviser, while Maria Luisa Brandt was appointed manager of Galaria S.A., a public company of the Health Council. Rocío Mosquera, after being discontinued in the Council, replaced Maria Luísa Brandt in Galaria, who, in turn, was appointed Povervisa manager — exchange of chromiums. So we see and we explain what is the strategy of the People's Party in health, the continuing privatization strategy, the budget cuts in the public sector, the delivery of growing portions of private-handed assumptions for their personal profit, and how does this strategy accomplish the People's Party in a supplanted manner. But unfortunately there are many who denounce, not only health personnel, but multiple authorities, these practices that are absolutely infamous, anti-ethics and, for us, delitives. You're wearing spins in Ence, who's that? Another case. Isabel Tocino, Carlos del Álamo and Pascual Fernández, members of the board of directors, held environmental and water responsibilities with governments of the People's Party. The turning doors in the fire business: "They denounce the links between the offices of the Union and companies related to the counter-fired device of the German Government, including Indra and Inaer." Indra and Inaer are two of the major companies hired by the Board for the firefighting device and to launch the technology centre for unmanned Rozas planes. The two companies move millionaire contracts and the two have high-ranking employees of the Union. That's how forest fireman Manuel Martínez reported on the European Union's forest fires days — not our group or I say so — and the fire business they organized. And they also said that the Secretary-General of the Council of the Sea and the Rural Environment, Francisco José Vidal Pardo, and his wife and son, ended up working for a company linked to Luís Minaño, former executive president of Inaer, which they discovered 16 million in ssayav. Vidal Pardo's wife, a lawyer of the Union, formalized the contracts of the German Government with Inaer before she finished working on this company. According to Martínez, Vidal Pardo ceased his post in 2003 claiming personal reasons — incendiary terrorists and various causes. So the combined effects of putting aside an absolutely insufficient regulation to shorten these types of practices, these rotational doors, coupled with the dependence of decision-making bodies on incompatibilities — since there is no independence in this case either in the judiciary or in the prosecutor's office — is what makes it possible to prioritize the political and legislative priorities of large companies over the interests of citizens and citizens, of the social majority. And hence the excessive precariousness of the labour market, the abusive prices of electricity and fuels, and the multitude of cases such as the Ence, which are inexplicable, and the destruction of the renewables market or abuses of the real estate market. Like lobbyists, illicit enrichment and other issues that we have seen denouncing, we can't deny what's going on with the turning doors and how our country is governed. The rotating doors left us a society divided between the rich and the poor, and an empty state of content that tends to be privatized thanks to the carriage action of companies and their political accomplices, their accomplices and their armed political hand. That is why we are taking this initiative. As with lobbying, which we have already discussed here, or the independence of the judiciary and the prosecutor's office or illicit enrichment, this is another form of anti-corruption prevention measures. It's not just worth not ruling the corrupt again or paying for their crimes in jail. We must have a prevention and a strong response through an active policy on conflicts of interests and rotating doors. In the reply we can discuss the points in particular one at a time. There are some who know that in particular they bother. We are open to compromise and debate, but to deny this problem, to say that there is no infamy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u337	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u338	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. It is true that we have an opportunity, on the basis of this initiative put forward by En Marea, to continue trying to incorporate measures to prevent corruption into the public agenda. And, as we know, in the middle of March 26th, we had a chance to get to know the People's Party's closure again to carry forward any policy of prevention of corruption because of the bill we had occasion to debate for the regulation of lobbying, interest groups; a question in which, as we all know, in this and other anti-corruption policies, Galicia goes precisely in the queue van of the autonomous communities. And in that sense there are many study centers and polytological analyses, sociological analyses, which indicate that it is necessary for the entire public sector and all public administrations to incorporate into the agenda precisely what is a framework of public integrity. And this framework basically we know, for the different debates we have had occasion to develop in this plenary and in committee, which is configured with several elements. One of them is the regulation of lobbying; another of them, of course, is the regulation and the possibility of protection of persons reporting corruption cases; corporate governance policies of the main companies in the country; and a proper selection, of course, of public office. Of course, in view of all these analyses of important centres of political analysis and sociological analysis, for an absolutely necessary and essential improvement of our institutional and democratic quality, we cannot expect the People's Party to make any decision in favour of these policies, absolutely — as I say — necessary. And in that sense — and it is true — I believe that all, but all, the political parties in this country — and in others too, but in this, after the times we live, and that surely we will live again, we must do the necessary self-criticism in this matter. And we do it, of course. What happens is that I think the People's Party isn't being able, or it doesn't want, or you don't care, or you don't let it make self-criticism about corruption. And in that sense, we just got to know the People's Party program for the next general election and it's really a real black hole in anti-corruption measures. We, from the Socialist Party, of course, from that need of self-criticism and to look forward, have taken measures in the area of combating tax fraud, in the face of the fiscal amnesties of the People's Party, in the area of protection of complaints of corruption, in the area of groups of interest and also in the area of anti-corruption pacts in public tendering. Some agreement we made in this House, but we're still waiting for the corresponding proposals from the German Government. And it is true that the selection of public charges and their compatibility control regime, especially after they cease in public activity, has to strike a balance between being able to attract the talent of the private sector and, of course, avoid corruption. And in that balance will be the virtue of the institutional and democratic system that we are able to develop. The regulations we have in place cannot prevent the best professionals in the private sector from also, of course, incorporating the provision of public services. And it's also true that the performance of public office cannot only be accessible to officials, nor, of course, to career politicians or professional politicians. But we need to have public integrity mechanisms that avoid conflicts of interest that exactly plague public accounts, general interest, democratic quality and, of course, our institutional system. If we analyze the latest data submitted by the Office of Conflicts of Interest, the General Administration of the State, we can observe that about 10% of the charges that have ceased to be incorporated into Ibex 35, 8% into business schools and 3% into political parties. And it's true, instead of more standards, what we need is a much more ethical and loyal compliance with these rules. And it is not to prevent precisely the fact that there is a step in public office to private activity, which is to prevent the use of public agendas, a use of regulatory activities, precisely for the benefit of the companies in which public office is placed, or of the corporate groups in which it is placed. In particular, with regard to the initiative, I believe that it is necessary to allocate three points to define the scope of regulation. A first point is that there is a clear distinction between the scheme of incompatibilities in public office — the State's competence — and the regime of conflict of interest in high office. Secondly, we must exclude from this regulation the scope of Parliamentarians, because they have their own area of regulation. And thirdly, I do believe that we must escape from a kind of general cause, which can be intuited by the reading of the exhibition part of this initiative, in respect of public office; but if we need to strengthen this regulation. That is why we, in the amendment that we have tabled, have to make a clear statement, President, because it is not so much about modification and replacement of the points we have reflected in the amendment. What we are looking for is precisely to strengthen this system by the effective establishment of a conflict of interest control office, in coordination with the Board of Auditors, with full functional autonomy and which makes an annual report on the fulfilment of public charges in this area to this House. And, on the other hand, with the necessary parliamentary debate, we need a legislative initiative in which we can strengthen the mechanisms of control, precisely, of the incompatibilities when we leave the public sector and enter the private sector into entities that may be affected by decisions taken in the public sector. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u339	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará. [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me? [[Mr. Rodil Fernández asks to replace Mr. Bará Torres in the use of the word.]] Correct yourself, but indeed, I have Mr. Bará here. Well, then this is Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u340	We apologize, President, for surely it was our mistake. But we'll also have to redistribute the work within the group, I think Louis and Montse have worked enough today. Good afternoon, before too long. We, in connection with this initiative that is being presented today, stressing or highlighting again some of the issues that we have also emphasized or underlined since the BNG 15 days ago, only in the previous plenary session, on the ground of this proposal for the Socialist Party's law which had to do with the interest groups, insisting that there is a normative framework, a regulatory framework, in the Spanish State which does not put a stop to this absolutely obscene relationship — we have said it fifteen days ago and we are re-reading it today — that there exists between political power and economic power in the Spanish State, and that it reflects perfectly, is a great example, in these rotating doors of those spoken today in this proposal that is not the law of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. We were saying at that time, fifteen days ago, that this influence exercised by the economic power, of the great capital, to condition the normative framework, so that the institutions of the State — especially the entire Official Gazette of the State — would be made available to the interests of these large corporations, of that great capital, is often reflected in that entry and exit to political life, to the public life, of people who have a very close relationship, well before, well later — as is the case with these rotating doors of what Mrs. Santos was talking about, with these great corporations. And despite the fact that the law has been made up in recent years — as I say in some way I think quite descriptive — the fact is that the measures that have been applied have not cut in any way to those rotating doors. There was talk of this State-owned office, this Office of Conflicts of Interest, which directly depends on the Government of the Spanish State, of one of its ministries, which is to put a little fox to look after the chickenman. And in a report submitted by the Court of Auditors, of the Spanish State, in 2016, it was already pointed out — in a report by the Court of Auditors, which is not a report, it is neither an assessment of any entity or observer exercising external control, no, it is the Court of Auditors — that this Office of Conflicts of Interest was not working, nor by far, for the purposes for which it had been created, and that in its proceedings it was not acting as a real and effective control tool for that obsessive obsive obscenity not to occur, that there is a relationship between the major corporations, in particular, and political power. In addition, the figures from this Office of Conflict of Interest — which was shown as percentages by Mr Villoslada — show, also in absolute terms, that there is no such control at all. In the last ten years of this office more than 520 rotational doors — to understand us — have been accepted, that leap of ex-high office and members of successive Spanish governments to financial entities — for the most part — or arms-making companies — were previously spoken of by some of the charges that Navantia had — and by the companies of Ibex 35. In a decade, in ten years, only 11 applications for compatibility were denied; in ten years, only 11. Is that because there is no kind of incompatibility? It's not in all light, it's not in all light, it's not in practice. And I insist that the Spanish State Court of Auditors has already pointed out that there is no real and effective control over these incompatibilities, that there is only a practically bureaucratic procedure and that these persons are asked to account for the alleged incompatibility they will have with the exercise of the public office they have at any time had and that they could now assume some incompatibility by exercising some responsibility in some private enterprise. In the case of Galicia the situation is already unexpected, if you allow me, because there is an Office of Incompatibilities and Good Practices, which is created at its time under the Transparency Act of 2006 and which appears again collected in the Transparency Act of 2016, and which among its functions, of course, has an annual report to this House and to the Council of Galician Union. To me someone corrects me if I'm wrong, but I haven't found him anywhere; so there's absolutely no will. You, Mrs. Santos, said this situation was inexplicable. No, it explains perfectly, and we say it from the BNG in the debate 15 days ago. You need to know who you are and what interests you represent. And there are things that stand aside from policy frameworks and that have to do with answering this question: who answers, what interests are governed? And most importantly, these are issues that have to do with ethics -- it was said here -- and above all, we understand that also with political decency. We'll support her. We'll also see how that transaction you're talking about, how it's left and how we're going to support the initiative. And we insist that there are issues that go a long way beyond non-law proposals that have to do with the interests of the political organizations and the people that we are part of institutions. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u341	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u342	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, after listening to the proponent, we have already realized that the intention is not to improve the situation, but to come here to make a populist and anti-political initiative that the only thing that seeks is to destabilize the exercise of politics. Mrs. Santos wants politics to be a closed world, in which no one can enter, because, after exercising it, she has to spend five years living in the air, right? This is the period of incompatibilities that you propose, without in any case needing what you call "turn doors." You came here, said many, many cases, including one who left politics in 1990 and entered a company in 2014. Twenty-four years later it seems to you that this is a rotating door. So it would be nice if you were here to tell us exactly what a spinning door is for you. If twenty-four years after we practice politics, we can't enter a private company, Mrs. Santos, the truth is that the thing is much more serious than I thought before your intervention. So what they practically veto is any professional exit. Nor does it appear that you are asking for a public salary during that period. Just as there is for the high offices in the state — that for two years there is, for the members of the board, no. Well, let's look at point-by-point. In point 1 you ask for a code of conduct. Mrs. Santos, this already exists, I invite you to read the institutional ethical code and tell us that's what you don't include here from what you propose. In points 2 and 3 they call for the independence of the public authorities responsible for the incompatibilities regime and for the establishment of a body. It was approved in 2015, in the Transparency Act, to dine a body that regulates the incompatibilities and conflicts of interests of the high offices of the Union. And there's the Office of Incompatibilities and Good Practices. Mrs. Rodil said there's a report she hasn't seen. Of course, Mrs. Rodil, the law states that the report will come when some incompatibility is detected. But if he doesn't come, it's because there wasn't one. And you say you didn't find him. Look, here I see there are three. I went to the board page. Perhaps it would be good if you were here and you had seen the director of the Galician Innovation Agency, the Director General of the Galician Economic Promotion Institute and the Director of the Galician Public Works Agency. It would be nice if you'd also looked at him and didn't say he didn't exist. Because I didn't invent this document, which I pulled from the Galician board website. Well, during the processing of this law, none of the parliamentary groups has introduced the article that regulates this office. Now they come here and say they don't like it, but you haven't tabled any amendments about this office. In point 4 they propose a shadow period of five years after leaving the public office. In the amendments to the Transparency Act of 2015, his co-worker, now from Pontevedra, proposed ten years. But, well, as my companion Marta Rodríguez told them this morning, you do the same as with basic income, they're changing according to election periods and what they're looking for. Now, as this is an electoral proposal, because five years -- in 2015 it was ten, and I don't know if the next time they're proposing less years. It would be nice if they told us. In point 6 they propose to establish three heritage declarations. Look, it was the Welsh transparency law of 2015 that first set two, at the beginning and at the end. But besides, ladies and gentlemen, for the members of this House this is a constant update. Every one of us who has a change in wealth or property has an obligation to report it so it's published... yes, yes, don't put that face. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Then she's very lost, Mrs. Santos. If you change cars or if you have an estate increase, you have to report it. It's a constant update. It would be nice if you knew, at least, those things. Therefore, maximum transparency thanks to this law — which AGE did not, by the way, support. Everyone can know where they're coming from and where the people who enter the Galician Union come from thanks to that law. I therefore do not understand what is the problem of rotating doors which seeks to shorten this proposal and which problems have caused the current regulation of incompatibilities in Galicia, Mrs Santos. 'Cause you're a little out of your mind about national issues. Of course, we all know which are the turning doors of Podemos. He erected "three meals" very well explained how high-ranking and militants were being held, and he posed "the importance of leaving popular institutions seeded to take refuge when the adversary ruled." And that's how you explain the minor contracts of Mayor Martiño Noriega and his government, for 19 million euros, to friends, relatives, acquaintances and related companies. And that's how it explains how Mayor Julius Ferreiro gave more than ten contracts a day, more than ten contracts a day...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u343	Quiet, quiet, Mr. Sánchez!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u344	Take a look, even more than in Madrid. In Madrid in 2017, with an budget of 5,254 million, he granted 4,497 contracts. And the Coruña, with an budget of 239 million, gave 5,506 contracts to the finger. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u345	Mr. Sánchez!, Mr. Sánchez, I call you by order! Excuse me, Mrs. Prado, excuse me for a second. Mr. Sánchez!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u346	It's impossible, Mr. President. I appreciate that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u347	Mr. Sánchez, I call you by order. Well, there you are. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Stay for the story.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u348	And if we talk about sysav and instrumental companies, you're partners in the Government of Spain. And the Government of Spain is where there are more ministers with sysav and instrumental companies. Some have already resigned; others have not, because otherwise there would be an ERE in the government of the socialists of Spain, of Mr. Pedro Sánchez. [[Applause]] Mr Villoslada, who comes here to talk about these things and who says that the PP does not want to take measures to prevent corruption, when in this House in the past legislation we passed five laws — democratic regeneration, the Council of Auditors, the financing of political parties, the legal advisory and the Cultural Council — and you did not support a single one of those laws -- Mr Villoslada, who does not want to favour measures to prevent corruption? It will be those benches, which are the only ones that have not supported the laws of democratic regeneration. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Mrs. Santos, you raise a question of public rotational doors to the private, but you do not raise a question of public rotational doors to the public. Because, look, the military have to go to the reservation if they go to politics. And we also believe that it is very important that, if someone is a judge and presents himself to elections as an aspirant to the presidency of a government, what it cannot be by going out that door and uttering judgments against the government that he has been opposed to for four years. And what's worse: before I entered politics, and knowing that I was going to be a candidate for the Board, he handed down a sentence which the Supreme Court ruled by deviation, gentlemen. So it's important that you apply to your group what you intend to apply to everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u349	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Santos. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Strong murmurers.]] Order in the room! Silence! Come on, we're finishing up now. [[Balbordo.]] Easy, quiet! Silence, Mr. Sánchez! Mrs. Santos, your turn.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u350	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is, if it wasn't such a serious subject, it would be to laugh here for 20 consecutive hours. But first of all, I want to thank you for your reflections in the Galician Nationalist Block. We agree with the legislative inadequacies, and that is why we commented on the fact that we are presenting a legislative initiative at the state level, precisely because of all these major measures and all this great political practice of the People's Party has already seen its effectiveness. And it seems that we are the ones who have been convicted, as a party, by corruption. Curiously those who have imputation and condemnation are those who accuse others, something from the multicolored country where there was a bee under the sun. Unfortunately, if politicians were honest and honest, if among people who practice politics, in general, isolated cases were not honest, because, unfortunately, they are the isolated cases in governments often the honest ones — there is the hemerotheque and all the judicial processes, and we still have a lot to see— could buy him the argument. But the reality, unfortunately, is what it is. And of course he had an explanation, but I was hoping that some kind of blond might invade them. But it is clear that in no way. [[Murmurs.]] And of course, it can't be restricted by political activity or business activity to public employees. You know, in fact, as a public employee, Mrs. Paula Prado, that officials also have a regime of incompatibilities for the exercise of private activity, with regulation. I don't know what he tells us. And if it bothers you so much what is the participation of certain profiles in politics, they can present the initiatives they want, seeing that this goes to the elections. Because your speech that corruption doesn't go with you, so it comes out in the polls today, without counting your corrupt anti-corruption prosecutors, your corruption-accused ministers of justice and your anti-corruption charges within Mr. Casado's PP that later charge them for corruption... I think about your actions I am nothing disorientated. And you don't know exactly what comes here, you're not disoriented at all. He knows perfectly well that he comes here to defend, with blind faith, as good Catholics — I don't know if you are or I care — but how... I don't say it as offensive, I say it as if I were Catholic, with blind faith. [[Balbordo.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u351	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u352	So, what are we going to answer that argument?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u353	Quiet, quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u354	What are we going to answer? Because it harms so many citizens with measurements with the electrics.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u355	Quiet, quiet! Silence! We're finishing up. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Strong murmurers.]] If not, we'll suspend ten minutes to clarify ourselves. [[Strong murmurers.]] Half an hour, half an hour! If they want, we delete...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u356	The benches of those who have antimoral legitimacy are very nervous. They're very nervous, they're very nervous, because if they fall, they're very nervous.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u357	Quiet! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u358	They have a lot of speech. They make water all over them. Unfortunately those we had to suffer from their governments. Unfortunately those we had to suffer and suffer their governments. [[Strong murmurers.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u359	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u360	And finally, I won't waste more time with those of the blind faith and those who defend their party over the general interest, and their business over the general interest, and their post-political careers over the general interest. They don't care what it has to do with the majority of society. [[Murmurs.]] I'm telling the Socialist Party that we'll sit down and talk about the points where we don't agree...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u361	Quiet, please! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u362	...to see what we can trade. I appreciate the debate and reflection that this is indeed not a matter of party, but of system, and that it has affected all parties and can affect any party in government. What we have to prevent is through concrete proposals, because the current ones are not working and the facts are very clear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-09-DSPG109.u363	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning.
