ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u1	Good morning. Let's restart the session. We begin with point 6 of questions for the oral response of the President of Galicia. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the corrections to be made by the Government of Greece in its health policy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u2	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u3	Thank you very much. Good morning. Mr. Feijóo, few areas are as affected by his decade of cuts like health, to the extreme that he is endangering the health of the Greeks and the Greeks. And this is not rhetorical, because here we have the dramatic cases of the Road or Dozon to see how the cuts kill. If he got out of the official car, if he walked less carpet and more street, he'd check the severity of his health loss, which is especially fed with primary care and comarcal hospitals. And this is making the social alarm grow. Only in a week did we have two days off in primary care, demonstrations in Cathoira and Soutomaior and an impressive and tumultuous mobilization in Vienna against the closure of the wall and the suppression of pediatric guards. And allow me to stop in this last case, which is on its feet of war — and rightly — to a whole region. The decision of the Union — its decision — implies that the women of Verín and the region will have to travel for an hour or a half in order to give birth. It means that if a child or a child needs urgent attention, he will have to travel for 60 or 90 minutes to be seen by a pediatrician. And I'm asking you if you'd like that woman to be her companion, if you'd like that child to be your son, who had woken up at night with 40 fever and had to get him out of bed in a pajama and drive for 60 or 90 minutes so that you could see a pediatrician. Would you really be quiet? I, of course, wouldn't be, Mr. Feijó, wouldn't be. [[Applause]] I feel a lot safer knowing that in order to give birth, I won't have to travel 100 kilometers. [[Applause]] And what I don't want for myself, I don't want for my country's women anywhere either. [[Applause]] And the top of the slide is the People's Party's justifications for telling us why health services are closed in Verín. They say they close because security is more important than comfort; i.e., having close health services now is a whim of women, mothers and parents. If Junta considers that the services she's providing at the Verín Hospital need to improve them, it's better for us, but it's not hiding behind professionals to justify their political decisions, to justify the usual: cuts and more cuts in public health. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And the whole thing is that they claim there are few births in the countryside. It's just, if hospitals are closed, every time there's going to be less births. I don't know if these are your star measures to fix population in rural areas or to continue with population impulse. By cutting down the health services, do you think you're going to advance this country's countryside, Mr Feijóo? What we ask you to do is to rectify, to end this health misdemeanour, Mr Feijóo, to recover the services that have been eliminated at the Summer Hospital, which already provides for the coming year an extraordinary fund of primary care with more than 200 million euros, or to call all the squares that are vacant in Sergas. In short, what we're asking...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u4	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u5	...is that he leaves behind the cuts and the dismantling of public health and that he bets on defending the rights of the Greeks and the Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u6	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u7	Your Honor, this decade of public health in Galicia will be remembered as the decade of the largest investment in hospital renewal, the decade of completion of the health centres we need, the decade with more health services in the service portfolio of the Galician Health Service, the decade with fewer waiting lists and more consultations. The decade, finally, of an impulse without a record of the country's public health. Your Honor, allow me to read this phrase to you: "Let us change an awkwardness" — that I recognize and understand the complaints of women — "for a matter of security." The sentence isn't mine, it's the head of the Xynecology Service of the Ourense Health Area. And when a professional asks him about whether he understands political criticism, he says, "No, I don't understand them. When politicians come out to criticize this decision, no one relies on technical reports. Criticizing without a technical analysis of the situation is not fair." Your Honor, this is not a militant of the People's Party, this is not what the People's Party says. This says the boss of all the gynaecologists and the oysters of the Ourense Health Area. Therefore, Your Honor, I could end the answer to that question that you have just referred to — more than question, constant and continuous accusation — but with regard to professionals, and especially with regard to patients in the Vernal Health Area, I continue. Your Honor, this decision is a health-only decision, exclusively. All the attention to the ready and postpartum women in Verín will continue. The only thing that is decided, medically speaking, is that the act of childbirth is transferred, for security reasons, to more frequent and more active parenting. And so they say, not politicians, but let me now quote the chief of all pediatricians in the province of Ourense. There is scientific evidence that relates to morbidity and mortality and the volume of activity and procedures. When there is less, the risk can appear more easily. We see that in Verín there is a declining trend of very striking birth, adding to a greater complexity of pregnancy. In fact, in Verín they were born in the previous year 89 children, and in what we've been forecasting for the year is that they don't reach 60. Your Honor, this is a decision but not a decision by the chiefs of gynaecology and obstetrics, not even a decision by the pediatricians. This is a decision by all pediatricians, gynecology and obstetricians of the Ourense Health Area, which is 44. Here are your signatures and your national identity document. Do you think all these doctors are politicians of the People's Party and the goal is to disturb women? Or will it be for the safety of women and their children? [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u8	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u9	Your Honor, how can you talk here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u10	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u11	...in the name of pediatricians, pediatricians, gynecologists of the Ourense Health Area and come here with this political planning and forgetting health planning?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u12	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u13	Your Honor, I understand and I regret the inconveniences, of course, of women, without any doubt. But my conscience doesn't allow me to make decisions against gynecologists, gynecologists, obstetricians and pediatricians in Ourense province.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u14	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u15	Your conscience may allow you, my lord. And that's why our commitment is to keep improving the Verín Hospital, to continue expanding the Verín Hospital, to make some new emergencies to the Verín Hospital, to make a more intensive service portfolio for patients at the Verín Hospital. And don't count on me, Your Honor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u17	...to make this kind of policy, against women's security and politics against babies born in Galicia. Don't count on the government to do that, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u18	Thank you, President. Mrs. Pontón Mondelo has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u19	Mr Feijóo, as much as you are upset or hiding behind the professionals, we will come here to this Parliament to defend public health and women's rights, which is what the People's Party is attacking with its political decisions. If this is not a political decision, remove the health counsellor, because we don't have to pay him such a generous salary if he doesn't make any decisions. [[Applause]] It suppresses the health advisor if anyone decides it's the doctors. [[Applause]] Or listen to primary care doctors, who've been on strike for three days this year. [[Applause]] He's not hiding behind professionals and he's face to face by his decisions. Because besides being playing with women's health...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u20	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u21	...you're a coward politically, a coward politically! He's not hiding behind the professionals. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Look, I'm convinced that if you and the councilman had lived in Verín and had been women, they wouldn't make such a happy decision to close the parlor. I'm absolutely convinced they wouldn't. And, look, you're talking about the fact that all professionals agree with this decision and there's scientific reports. There's not a single scientific report that says there's no need to close a parrot because there's less than a hundred births! Or have you been endangering the lives of the women of Verín for ten years? But what kind of fallacy is this, Mr. Feijóo? [[Applause]] And, look, I'm going to quote you as the Xinecology chief at the Hospital de Verín, Javier Castrillo — I imagine you think you're a good professional — Do you know what this Xynecology chief says?"The perinatal data at the Vienna Hospital are quite good, very good. We've registered some 3,000 births. There wasn't a single fetal death in labor, not one. And serious complications in obstetrics, practically none; that is, there were no cases of a newborn who had to be treated by a severe pathology for mismanagement of childbirth." There were 3,000 deliveries and excellent results in Verín. And what you do is you close that parrot and also suppress pediatric emergencies. But, Mr. Feijóo, if those emergencies were not necessary, why did they call the squares a few months ago? And why were they vacant? Because they have a very serious management problem because they're precarious the work of professionals. So don't justify your empire doing something as bad as what you just did here: first, attack the professionals and the professionals... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u22	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u23	...of the Hospital de Verín, as if they had no expertise—of course they have expertise, who does not have it is their government—and, second, Mr. Feijóo, you are the one who is risking and questioning the rights of women and children in rural areas, and we will not allow them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u24	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u25	Listen, Mr Feijóo, and correct, because I imagine that, if even the Ourense People's Party is demanding that the parent should open, it will be because this is a problem. Stop hiding and assume your responsibilities, Mr. Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u26	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, quiet! The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u27	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Do you know that, of the 23 pediatricians in the Ourense hospital area, 19 of those who proposed this decision to us are women? Do you know that, of the 21 gynecologists who proposed to interrupt births in Verín, 21 of them, 15 are gynecologists? What women are you talking about? Are you speaking on behalf of the BNG Members?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u28	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u29	I speak in the name of Ourense's pediatricians and gynecologists who proposed to adopt this measure. That's a big difference, Your Honor. I follow the doctor's criteria, you just follow the criterion of getting a set of votes. I repeat... Don't laugh, this is a very serious matter. [[Murmurs.]] This is a very serious subject to joke about the whole pediatrics and the whole xyencology of the Ourense Health Area based on a decision of a gynecologist that you remind me of. What about the rest, Your Honor? And what do you say today, for example, the president of all the doctors in Ourense?: "It is necessary to forget to use public health for political propaganda already." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Pontón, you're here to talk about political propaganda. I'm here to talk about public health. That's the big difference, Your Honor, between a responsible government and an irresponsible opposition. [[Applause]] With all the nonsense you told me about hepatitis C, that I was told that I was a psychopath because I was killing people for not giving hepatitis C drugs, aren't you going to rectify these kinds of slanders, of plots, towards a government and towards a Welshman just for being President of the Unity of Galicia? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's what your group said. [[Murmurs.]] I don't want to remember what the rest of the Members of the House said, they won't be rectified. But, look, Your Honor, who do you want to fool? Do you think the women who live in 65 Galician municipalities that are over 70 kilometers away from your hospital are unattended? Do you not know that there are 15 municipalities in the province of Lugo where they are beyond the distance Verín has to do with Ourense; in the province of Coruña, 17 municipalities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u30	Silence! Mrs. Prado, be quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u31	...in the province of Pontevedra, 12 municipalities; and in the province of Ourense, 21 municipalities that are further from what is the health area of Verín with respect to the hospital where they will give birth?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u32	Mrs. Prado, Mrs. Prado, be quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u33	What's the matter, Your Honor? Why do you lie to women all the time and constantly and take the hair just for a political and partisan matter? Look, Your Honor, you're talking about dismantling the Verín Hospital, when the Verín Hospital has increased 33% of the consultations since this government took possession, and 10% of the surgical interventions. [[Murmurs.]] And, Your Honor, the births have dropped more than 40%. That's the reality. The problem is not a health problem or a health problem, it is a health problem or not a health problem. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And as we're going on, Your Honor, protecting women, and how we're going to continue giving all kinds of services and services to prepare for delivery and postpartum, don't worry that we know what to do. For example, Verín will increase by three its emergency area. Yes, ladies, what are you laughing at? [[Murmurs.]] Do emergencies matter less than a delivery that can be programmed? Is this what you laugh about, gentlemen?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u34	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u35	Are you really rid of the criteria of all obstetricians, gynecologists and pediatricians in the city of Ourense? Look, ladies and gentlemen, a little respect, a little respect for the clinical criteria, a little respect for scientific societies, a little respect for health professionals. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u36	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u37	Stop doing demagogy and for once take Galician public health seriously. That's the proposal. They take seriously the women who are going to give birth and the babies who are going to be born.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u38	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u39	And on behalf of these women and on behalf of these babies, we're going to follow the technical criteria and criteria of pediatrics, of xynaecology and obstetrics of Ourense. There you are and your conscience, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u40	Thank you very much, President. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Antón Sánchez García of the G.P. of the Left Joint Group on the reasons of the Greek Government not to place among its priorities the protection of Galician natural heritage
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u41	Mr. Sánchez García has the floor to put the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u42	Good morning. Mr Feijóo, environmental policies have never been among your priorities. His priority, above the defense of the territory, was always the private business of a few. They direct and you act at your fingertips. Environmental preservation is an obstacle for you and for the businesses of those who work for you. Using public institutions — which should work for the general interest — to work for the interests of the powerful is the corruption of politics, the most serious of corruption. It's his way of acting and we have examples that go through his black decade. Two very recent: the Iribio wind farm and the platoon that they intend to carry out in the municipality of Mos. The High Court of Justice of Galicia has just given you a second judicial beating in less than a month, temporarily paralyzing the wind farm in the Iribio sawmill and dismissing its appeal against that paralysis. Every day the courts are more powerful, more demolitional, showing the serious irregularities that existed in the processing process. You intend to carry out a project supported by a totally obsolete 2005 environmental impact declaration that does not guarantee the preservation of the environmental, heritage and landscape values of the area. They have allowed for four months works, without the relevant authorizations — despite the warnings and complaints of the social groups and the complaints that have been made since the Galician Parliament — in the middle of the Natura Network and in the area of special landscape interest, a place of beauty and incalculable values. And they gave him an administrative suit as per the company, the company friend. They can't say, besides, that they didn't know what they were doing. Social groups have been reporting and warning for months, and in this very Parliament we have repeatedly denounced it. And you have repeatedly allowed the law to be breached to promote works that have already caused very difficult reversible damage. I don't know who's going to blame for this damage in an area of such value. You are responsible for destruction, and everything to benefit a company. Unfortunately it's not an isolated fact, it's part of its wind-polie model, as before the lignite or rivers were swept away in Galicia, with great environmental impacts in exchange for almost nothing. Another example is the speculative operation in Mos. You and Mayor Nidia Arevalo intend to carry out a huge urban platoon: recalibrate 940,000 square metres of rustic land — most of them forest. The Town Hall will expropriate, from the neighbors and neighbors of Mos, communities of neighboring mountains that work properly to hand them over to their friend Mouriño, so that, among other things, it makes in 140,000 square meters a shopping center that, according to the promoters, says it is to ensure the economic viability of its performance. I mean, expropriating the neighbors and neighbors cheaply for Mr. Mouriño to do business, and no matter how environmental impacts are being warned in this performance, reclassifying both urbanizable and what was intended to be approved in the general plan that was approved two years ago. When are you going to end up with that polyp model of brick capitalism for friends? When are you going to defend a model that goes through respect and preservation of Galicia's environmental values?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u43	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u44	Mr President, if you do not do so, you are going to give up the future of Galicia. When are you planning to make policies for the general interest in Galicians and Greeks? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u45	Thank you very much. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u46	Look, Your Honor, jokes aside, this government has shown, with laws, with resolutions, with decrees, with plans and with specific issues, is that we are concerned, busy and will continue to care for and occupy both the natural heritage and the environmental quality. And that's not incompatible with industrial projects or energy projects, unless you want to just keep impoverishing Galicia. Not us. Environmental protection and industrial development are neither exclusive concepts. 12% of Galician territory is protected, 12% of Galician territory is part of the network of protected spaces. This government approved the Act on the Protection and Welfare of Pets in 2017, the Natural Heritage Act in 2019, the Plan Director of the Galician Rivers, the Decree on the creation of the network of Biosphere Reserves, the Plan Director of the Natura Network in 2014 — updating the 2000 – and we approved the Plan for the Management of Uses and Management of the Atlantic Islands Park, and so on to the full range of parks between 2019 and 2020. In terms of environmental quality, we approved the Galicia Urban Waste Management Plan up to 2020 and a European circular economy package. We approved the Galicia Industrial Waste Plan between 2016 and 2022. We've increased 21% to the net of clean points, and now in Galicia we're done with the landfill model. So, Your Honor, we have launched awareness campaigns and we have eliminated a thousand — I say — uncontrolled dumping points in Galicia, a thousand! We expanded Sogama and increased its recycling capacity by 81%. We're quadrifying the percentage of recycling in Galicia. The zero technical discharge in 2020. And the European Parliament requires the Member States to arrive at the zero technical discharge in 2035; therefore, fifteen years earlier. Tomorrow we will approve the new Waste Law at the Board of the Board. Your Honor, I believe it is a mix of concrete proposals and specific laws. You tell me about a wind farm. Obviously, this wind farm is authorized by the Government of Bipartite. This wind farm is authorized for 2007, an environmental impact statement of 2005, and we demand a sectoral project approved in 2009 that the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia says is correct. [[Murmurs.]] And in January 2018, the promoter, once he has the complete administrative file, asks for an authorization. You know why? Not to increase the mills, but to reduce them. I mean, what he didn't have discussion and he didn't have claims because he was good -- a wind farm with 12 mills -- now it turns out bad because he's got 8 in the same place. Is that the left-wing proposal in the country? The left authorizes a wind park in a place with 12 mills, the People's Party also authorizes an wind park with 8 mills, and now it turns out that the problem is the popular party ballad? [[Murmurs.]] Home, Your Honor, a little respect for the data! [[Applause]] He doesn't think we're fools. We can even stay. Look, Your Honor, the High Court, before an appeal — we are in a rule of law — considers that we have to suspend until we get to the bottom. And the Galician Board, considering the background, believes that there is no need to suspend. And the court says it must be suspended, but it doesn't go to the bottom, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u47	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u48	You don't manipulate what the High Court says, too. Manipulates the facts, manipulates the political decisions and manipulates the car of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u49	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u50	You really do care about the economic models of your friends. Yesterday I had an opportunity to have dinner with representatives of the Greek centers. Too bad you weren't at my table to listen to Hermandad Galicia de Caracas! That's an economic model, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u51	Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u52	That's an economic model! Don't laugh, ladies. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u53	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u54	There are parliamentarians and parliamentarians in your group here who agree with the economic model of extortion of Venezuelan chavism. And do you come here to speak of a government which complies with the laws, which says laws, which guarantees the environmental protection of the country and which scrupulously follows all the laws of the wind farms? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u55	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u56	Look, Your Honor, I have no friends more than the Greeks and the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u57	Mr. Sánchez García has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u58	Mr. Feijóo, you spoke of Venezuela. I'd rather ask you about Mexico. Don't lie or manipulate yourself. You're an expert in lying and manipulation. You say this was authorized by the Bipartite. Don't cheat on citizenship. The post of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia annuls the decision of the Board of Justice of July 27, 2019, which you presided over. [[Murmurs.]] Stop fooling me. You have left works for four months, which have caused irreparable damage, without the relevant authorizations, without municipal licenses, and have not even approved for nearly a month the sectoral project of supra-municipal incidence. [[Applause]] You put obstacles in place and obstructed the action of social groups who for a year have mobilized against this aberration of acting on the Natura Network, and for eight months have hidden all information to cover up the authorization process as non-substantial modification that avoided public exposure and avoid making a new declaration of environmental impact. With a new environmental impact statement, Mr Feijóo, this park would never be made. And that's why it's never going to be done. But the damage is already done, because you have tried by all means, failing to comply with the law, to benefit from a friendly company close to the People's Party, Mr. Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u59	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u60	That's the reality. That's the reality. You knew it and went on. Now the damage is done, and you are true that you will not be held responsible for the year that is already done in a place that should be preserved. You repeated many of the laws that were passed. What do we value these laws if you yourself don't do them, if you approved a master plan for the Natura Network that said you couldn't install wind turbines on the Natura Network, and you were drawn torturingly to implement a wind farm on the Natura Network? What are the general plans, the laws of the ground, when there's management in the hands of the People's Party, that never does anything after? Two years ago, they approved a general municipal management plan in Mos and now, to do a multi-million-dollar business to Mr. Mouriño, they change everything, expropriate the neighbors, and it's the Town Hall that expropriates, it's for a general interest and a public interest, so they make a shopping center at 140,000 square metres without studying the impacts on trade, without studying the environmental impacts on mobility, and all to favor Mr. Mouriño's balladage. That's the reality, Mr. Feijó. The rest is their publicity, propaganda and manipulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please! The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u62	I see, Your Honor, that you don't want to read, or that you have difficulty reading or partly interpreting what the courts say. Obviously, the court is speaking about one of the decisions of the Galician Board, which was to authorize this wind farm other than what was previously authorized. They used to be sweet and now they're eight. That's the point. But really, who do you represent here, who do you represent here? You say we're interested in a company when the wind farm authorizes the Bipartite? Is this a half-way joke or is it a comedy? You were at the BNG then. I don't know where he'll stop now. And it turns out, when you were at the BNG, this could be done. That's right, with more mills and more invasion of the place. And now with us, with less mills and less affection for the place, it can't be done. Look, stop reading.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u63	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u64	Stop reading and talk seriously. Pay back what happened to the previous spokesperson in his group, who was having a hard time in his papers. And the problem is, you'll end up as the previous spokesperson in the group has finished, outside of the groups that make up this nonsense that you bring to the House today. Look, Your Honor, if there's anything wrong with this file, it will be the responsibility of the BNG and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Of course, from us, none, Your Honor, none! No apex of responsibility! [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, we're going to keep working. On the strategy of circular economy, we are the third autonomous community that has approved it. The Strategy for Climate Change and Energy 2050 is the third community that has approved it. And the operational plan to launch more than 120 measures with a global amount of 270 million euros is our contribution to environmental problems and commitments. Galicia has reduced its environmental emissions of CO2, Spain increases them. Galicia reduced by 5% and Spain increased by 13%. And you want to keep closing down the Galician industries. You're going that way. But they don't even agree with renewable industries. Not the Reganosa, not the Meirama, not the Bridges and not the wind farms, that's the industrial policy of the Left in the Common. That's the industrial and energy nonsense you want to bring to this country. Look, Your Honor, how many things I had to hear from you and your friends about Corcoesto! —that if we had commitments with the Canadian company to exploit the gold in that area of the Costa da Morte, of Bergantiños, that if we had economic interests...— And it turns out we denied her permission, denied her permission. They asked us, we won the judgement in the High Court, and now we're awaiting international arbitration. Sing slander, sing treason, Your Honor! But don't you realize that I have no commitment to any company except to the Greeks and the Greeks, and especially to the workers? Don't you notice that matter, Your Honor? [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, two laws will be passed this month, to which I told you and more the Land Management Act — two in December — and a decree of native leafy masses — that is what we are going to approve at the Council tomorrow — to enhance the capacity of the Greek forest. Look, Your Honor, I'm used to you, in a control session, telling me about the deindustrialization of the country and asking me in the second question why there is no industry in the country. First they tell me that industry is in difficulty and now they tell me that wind energy and wind industry does not proceed in the country. The protection of natural heritage is not opposed to industrial development.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u65	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u66	When you learn this, don't worry, ladies and gentlemen, that we will see you every afternoon of glory at the Congress of Members and every Friday at the Council of Ministers, that everything we say here I will consult you at the hemerotheca of this Parliament. What a contradiction, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u67	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u68	Look, Your Honor, we want a greener Galicia. You know what you're saying? A poorer Galicia. Yes, ladies, yes! You believe that natural wealth is possible with the citizen's poverty. We believe that natural wealth and wealth are possible for the Greeks. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u69	Thank you very much. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Gonzalo Caballero Míguez, of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the policy of the Galician Union in relation to the naval industry
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u70	To put the question, Mr. Knight Míguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Feijóo, every day you're going through, it's a bigger problem for the Greeks and the Greeks. He doesn't want to acknowledge or get involved in solving the country's problems. This government that you are leading is already a scourge of what Galicia needs to dissipate. His speeches in this House show his indolence, his lack of connection to the reality of this country, his lack of involvement with the real problems in Galicia where there is an industrial crisis, in which there is crisis in rural areas, in Galicia where there is a health crisis. You no longer have the credibility to answer the country's problems. He has no credibility in health matters, as he just did today. Tributes, privatizations, precariousness, lack of personnel... all Galicia recognises its disaster in health policy, even its positions of the People's Party in Ourense, who continually discredit it, who vote against everything you say here today. Why don't you go to Verín to explain to the citizen their cuts in the public hospital that has less service portfolio? Why don't the People's Party in Ourense believe it, either, Mr. Feijóo? But it does not have credibility in health matters nor does it have credibility in the fundamental issues of public policy. You have no credibility to be able to develop an industrial policy in this country, with eleven years of inaction, failure, a vicious circle of lack of action in industrial policy, which is done, in addition, by implementing a problem in external investment, with problems in the external sector, with problems of loss of industrial capacity, of weight in gross added value, of fall industrial employment. He has no credibility. And the ship shows its failure to compromise, a naval sector where you should recognize the reality of the country. What did you do in the naval, Mr. Feijóo? Where were you when Morenés blocked the construction of the frigates in Ferrol? What did you say then? Where was your solemn commitment, broadcast live by the TVG, that Pemex would be the solution of the private shipyards to Galicia with the construction of 20 ships? What did you arrange with Peña Nieto, who was visited still this month of May this same year, when he was already leaving his government? What have you done for Barriers management? Who did you put in the manager? How does management value? Why do you not want to acknowledge, Mr Feijóo, that you have been absent from the problems of naval politics, that you had to arrive a socialist government in Spain in order to be able to secure the investment of EUR 4.325 million for the public yards of Ferrol because you were silent when Morenes didn't develop it and in this House you said you weren't counting?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u72	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u73	And why don't you also explain your failure in Barreras, the failure that shows all that crowd of unfulfilled promises, opaque agreements, Pemex's executives fleeing from corruption in Mexico, with investigations into Pemex and mismanagement of his Allied Barreras? Since the ship's not done, 800 workers have lost their jobs in the auxiliary industry. And you didn't invite the main shareholders, the main actors, here in Compostela to lead you. And his counselor said yesterday that he had no information, that he didn't know the real extent of the Barreras situation. I come to ask you, and I understand that you have no answers because your counselor said yesterday that he was out. Mr. Feijóo, when Pemex entered Barriers, you said that Pemex's entry into Barriers was a success of Junta, of Feijóo, the success of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u74	Silence! Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u75	Pemex's failure in Barreras is the failure of his government, it's the failure of Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u76	Thank you very much. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u77	As you can see, the economic advisor is not out, he's here. By the way, a great advisor to Economics, Industry and Employment, of which I feel very proud. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, I recognize listening to a Socialist Party leader talking about the ship makes me surprised. Galicia still recalls the Socialist Party's decision to dismantle the public shipyards of Ferrol as a currency of exchange before the European Union. When you came to the government, 16,000 people worked there. Today there's no work for 2,000. Listening to socialist leaders talking about the ship is smiling. His Spanish commissioner of competition, Mr Almunia, president of the Socialist Party and candidate for the presidency of the Government of Spain, for nothing more and nothing less than giving him the reason for a Dutch complaint that is intended to ruin all the shipyards of Galicia. The tax reads, Your Honor! Lehendakari, the president of the principal, the secretary general of UXT, the secretary general of Labour Committees, the Minister of Industry, of the PP, and I present ourselves in the office of Mr. Almunia, fellow of Mr. Caballero. As a result, we won. Not bad, Your Honor! Therefore, the Socialist Party of the naval sector speaks, and what a good thing it would be if I were quiet, Mr. Knight! [[Murmurs.]] But, look, we did exactly the opposite of the Socialist Party: trying to keep the naval sector in the country. At the most complicated time we won the lease tax and today the Greek shipyards are the second-largest shipyards in Europe, after the Netherlands. That is the result of the policies of the People's Party, Your Honor. [[Applause]] We just proposed solutions with the fee read. We searched, where there was no workload. I still remember the debate on the Greek television of his predecessor, who said that this Pemex was a lie, that there was no contract, that no ship would be made here. I remember, perfectly, how they boycotted those contracts, how they filed a complaint at the Mexican embassy just because we were in the election campaign and bothered them that we got a contract for Barriers, which was broken, and a contract for Navantia, which didn't have a single boat in the ranks. I remember perfectly how they boycotted — using all the mechanisms — the country and the naval sector. Mr. Knight, don't look down, I'm telling you the truth of the facts. Yes, ladies, yes, they boycotted him continuously. Look, Your Honor, we invested more than 50 million euros for naval training and are innovating in the naval. We have opened a credit line of more than 36 million euros for the naval auxiliary industry, which is open unlimited until the end of 2020. And now you're talking to me about Barreras. The first thing we got is that Barreras is alive today, because when we got to the government he was dead. That is the first question that has been achieved. What is our proposal in Barreras? I'll tell you mine. You'd better talk to me about yours. Who do you come here to represent? To Cesce, to the Ministry of Industry, to the US shipowner? Who do you come here to represent? Do you know who I represent? To the Barriers workers, to the Barriers assistants, and to the future of that yard? That's my responsibility and that's my representation. [[Applause]] Your Honor, if there's a solution for Barriers, you have to go through an equation of balance, in which not only the shipowner owner of a ship solves his problem. No, no, the problem we have is a problem of lack of agreement among shareholders. And we have to solve the workers at the yard, the workers at the auxiliaries — those who owe them a lot of money — and the contracts they have signed Barriers and what now seems to be that you, the Socialist Party, don't want to follow. That's the proposal from the Board. Doesn't she meet together? But if we met yesterday with Cesce, with the Ministry of Industry and with the shipowners, and today we are reunited with Cesce, with the Ministry of Industry, with Pymar and with the shipowners!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u78	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u79	Are you in trouble with the department's choppers, Mr. Caballero? It's just that they don't even report it. No wonder, Your Honor. Because it turns out you have more information about the Ministry's proposals than the Government of Greece has. Who do you serve, Mr. Knight? I'm asking you that question because we're starting to be at times to realize exactly the responsibility of each one. Do you serve the Ministry of Industry and Cesce or do you serve the Barriers and Assistants templates? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. President. For the reply, Mr. Knight Míguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u81	Mr. Feijóo, your insolence is directly proportional to your ineffectiveness You dare tell who represents a political party of the opposition that must be quiet. [[Murmurs.]] You're on your way, Mr. Feijóo! [[Applause]] He'll listen to the leader of the opposition...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u82	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u83	...and Galicia confronts you continuously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u84	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u85	Because, look, we served Galicia, we can see the face of the Galicians and the Greeks, because we're going with the truth ahead. And you, Mr. Feijóo, are the one who hides and who keeps lying. [[Murmurs.]] Because you don't defend the workers. How dare you talk about the workers here? When did you meet with the Barreras Business Committee? Why are you cheating, if they're waiting for you? Because I was last week with Barreras workers, in contact with the different trade unions and representatives. And you don't have the courage to be able to face up to the problems of the hospital and the members of the Ourense People's Party who are recriminal of reality, or in Barreras, where they have no politics. [[Applause]] Of course we know, Mr. Feijóo, that you are present at meetings, at meetings where you are a guest of stone, because you have no action for Galician industrial policy and because your advisor — whom I respect in the personal sphere — said yesterday quite clearly the opposite of you: who does not know the real scope, who does not know what is happening, who does not know what to do. If that's the reality of the Economic Counsellor, his credibility is null, Mr. Feijóo. But you're already used to lying continuously in front of the Greeks and the Greeks. He acknowledges here today and applauds a socialist government that will invest 4,325 million euros on the yard in Ferrol to develop the naval. The largest investment, after the AVE, that reaches Galicia by the hands of a socialist government. Admit it, Mr. Feijóo, and stop fooling yourself continuously. He's used to lying continuously. A few days ago, we were told that if the People's Party were to compromise with extremists, you would fall into the People's Party. Yesterday they entered the Congress Bureau. Has the People's Party been down yet? Has he gone downstairs, Mr. Feijóo? [[Balbordo.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u86	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u87	I understand you don't like it, but, look, Mr. Feijóo, we just have to tell you one thing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u88	Mr. Vega, be quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u89	You and your government, Mr. Feijóo, no matter how much they don't like it, they didn't just want you to go into the table, but they wanted to do it with a coalition of the three right. What happens is they start fighting with Vox. [[Applause]] Married and Abascal start the war by the leader on the right and are nervous.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u90	Silence, Mr. Pazos!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u91	They're nervous because, when there's elections, half of the PP board is at risk of not being again, that it's going to change the representation. And that's why the people there shout more, because they already know the reality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u92	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u93	Look, Mr. Feijóo, your suspension in naval politics is palmarial.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u94	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u95	Their incompetence and lack of commitment are historical. And only, Mr. Feijóo, is there anything left to know.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u96	Mr. Tellado!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u97	It's only left to know, Mr. Feijóo, you just need to know, Mr. Feijóo, who's going out before, if you're going out before Pemex of Barriers or you're from Galicia's board. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Knight. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u99	No, it's not easy, we've begun to see substantial differences. It's not easy, Your Honor, to talk to you about something seriously, because you come here with the problem of health and industrial problems, the problem of Vox and the problem of Congress. But if you don't care about this! He says when I'm going out. I don't know, last Monday, we thought he had changed the spokesman of the Socialist Party in the House, since all Members wanted to make a different spokesman for you. Even you signed. [[Laughter]] Imagine how long you will last in the country's parliament! [[Applause]] Look, I reiterate again that all the problems that the Barreras shipyard has in 2019 have because Barreras was saved by the Galician Union in 2012 — a small difference. And now you ask the Galician Council to intervene in a private yard, private, of a public enterprise -- 51% -- Mexican. I have transferred to Minister Borrell that the Spanish State must contact the Mexican State in order to ascertain exactly what is the criterion and the change of criteria of the Mexican State. I looked for all the possibilities with the Spanish ambassador in Mexico to make sure what is the proposal of the new Mexican Government. Did you care about this matter? No, of course, you do something else. But, look, let's not just talk about private shipyards, which have owners, we'll talk about public shipyards, which also have owners. Now it turns out, Your Honor, that when the election period came, you committed yourself to Ferrol to maintaining the workload. But when the election period's over, there's no more ship, no more supply ship, no more logistics ship. Navantia, no workload until 2022 — Socialist Party said—. This is the reality, Your Honor, this is the reality. [[Murmurs.]] When they come around, they say, "No, no, we're going to get a load of work, we're going to start the performances in Navantia, we're going to invest, I don't know how much money. And now it turns out there's no workload in Ferrol in the next two or three years. We got windjackets here. They started making wind jackets in the previous legislation. They have a contract now. And what have they just done? To this contract for Ferrol, they just dismantled part of the contract and took them south. The cucumbers, south and frigates for Ferrol. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It turns out that, since there are no frigates in Ferrol, there is no corveta in Ferrol and a part of the jackets we had here lead it to the south as well. That's the responsibility of your Government. We're talking about the shipyards they own, Your Honor. You represent a public yard here, and that public yard is leaving no workload and lying to all the workers. But you're still there. Look, when did they pay? They still owe 600 million, Mr. Knight. When will they pay us? [[Strong murmurers.]] When are they going to pay Galicia their public policies and industrial policies? They don't meet the deadlines of the AVE, they want to close the thermal power station of the Bridges, they leave the Navantia yard empty, and they come to teach me. Of what? Look, Your Honor, do you know what they just did yesterday with the break-up auction on the BOE? One more step to close Alcoa. There were 40MW blocks for electro-intensive companies, and they disappeared. Now there are only blocks for small 5MW companies. Alcoa used to take 35 million euros for interruption. Now it's not going to make half of it. But do you come here to talk about serious industrial issues?Oh, my God! They close the thermal, they want to close Alcoa, they leave Navantia out of work, and you come here to talk to me about a private yard that has difficulties? Look, Your Honor...! And, finally, Vox. Man, how strange that Mr. Knight gives us a rally, as always, in the control sessions and not talk about Vox! Look, you bring a prefabricated rally from the house which consists of the following: first, in Galicia you won the Socialist Party; second, Mr. Feijóo is dealing with Vox; third, Mr. Caballero is a statesman. That's the parallel reality of Mr. Knight. [[Laughter]] What about the reality of the Greeks?: that in Galicia has won the People's Party and that Vox has no representation in Galicia. And, as far as you're a statesman, look at the laughter of your fellows. It's not that they laugh at you, laugh at you, Your Honor, you. [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, it's very clear, very clear! The better you go to Vox, the better you go to the Socialist Party. He was accused of the PP's going to deal with Vox at the Bureau. Look at the result: the PSOE agrees with Vox to be in the Bureau preventing him from being a citizen. That's the proposal of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We're still on the agenda. Now we move on to point 4 of non-law proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and eight other Members, on the reitegation by the Government of Greece before the Central Government of the demand for withdrawal from the limitation of the rates of replacement of squares for the public health system
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u101	This motion for a non-law tabled an amendment by the Joint Parliamentary Group, another amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Left, another by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and another by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u102	To formulate the non-law proposition, Mr. Núñez Centeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u103	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. We are bringing the debate today with a proposal which we have already discussed in this Chamber on various occasions. We are presenting this initiative to reiterate the request to the Government of the State for the withdrawal of restrictions on the replacement rate of squares for the public health system. I suppose it will be supported without cracks by all the House's groups, to help solve the problem of covering squares in the Galician Health Service, of which we have often spoken here in this House. The replacement rate, ladies and gentlemen, consists of the setting of a top in the replacement of public employees. It is calculated by applying the resulting difference between the number of fixed employees who cease to provide services in a given fiscal year and the number of fixed employees who enter for any reason in that exercise. Let's do a little history of what happened with the replacement rate over the past few years. As of 2008, the state's socialist government has been cutting job offers in an increasingly drastic way, with the aim of reducing the spending of public staff and as a measure of austerity. Interestingly, in those years when the crisis was denied — when it was stated in September 2007 that Spain was participating in the league champions of the world economies — six months before the general elections, measures were taken to reduce spending on public employment. In the same press round as the champions league, President Zapatero said that the Spanish economy was prepared as never before in the face of a possible recession, supported by its strength and dynamism of investment, business solvency, the efficiency of the financial system or the accumulation of the family's availabilities. An unforgettable example of clarity and foresight for the future! In 2009, the replenishment rate was set at 30% for the following year. Budgets for 2011 were limited to 10%. And remember, ladies and gentlemen, it was with a socialist government in Spain, which seems to forget this situation with some ease. In a speech in the Spanish Courts, which El País daily baptized as "The Two Minutes That Changed Spain," President Zapatero added the cut that you all remember: pension freezes, the drop in salaries of public employees, the withdrawal of the baby check, the brake on public investment and infrastructure and the decrease in pharmaceutical spending, after talks with Obama, the president of China and European leaders, who called to order our president of the Government. All of this to reduce the deficit that in 2012 exceeded 11 percent of GDP and it seems that by the end of 2011 it continued in the same figures. The popular government, the government of Mariano Rajoy, maintained austerity measures and, among them, the restorative rate in ten percent until 2014. In 2015, after the improvement of economic indicators, it rose to 50 percent and in 2016 it reached 100 percent in priority sectors and remained at 50 percent for other public employees. In 2017, the 100 percent restorative rate for health is maintained, but the so-called temporary employment stabilization processes are added, which are accompanied by an additional rate. Obviously, this situation has affected employment in public health, especially in increasing eventuality. As an example of the response in different autonomous communities, in Extremadura there were no health OPEs convened from 2011 to 2017; in Asturias, from 2008 – in nursing or physiotherapy from 2002 to 2015 – in Valencia, from 2007 to 2016, and in Catalonia, from 2010 to this same year 2019 no examination for new squares would be held. I think we all know what Catalan politicians have been dedicated to in recent years. In May 2018, shortly before the censoring motion, the United Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-En Marea presented a non-legislative proposal at the Congress of Deputies in which the Government was requested — at that time the People's Party — to eliminate the replacement rate without any exceptions and to call for an extraordinary public job offer. In this debate, Mr González García — as we say from United States Podemos — did not make the first reference to public health, but spoke about the offices of the Treasurer of Social Security, the Ministry of Education or the researchers of the CSIC, the National Institute of Aerospace Technique or the Carlos III Institute. It was approved with modifications with a transaction between groups. In something if they're consistent, ladies and gentlemen of the Podemos or Common Left groups. In the budgetary pact signed by his formation with the socialist government of Pedro Sánchez, there was no more reference to the rest rate than for science and innovation or for municipal employees, with a maximum of 100 percent. There was no mention of public health or the elimination of the fee to recover part of the lost posts during the crisis. These budgets — fortunately for all — were not approved, which led to the convening of new general elections. In the socialist electoral programs of the two processes this year 2019 there is no mention at all of the rate of rest in public health. In the first talk of increasing it in certain positions of technicians and scientists and in the latest one no longer mentions the replacement rate in any case. In the recent government agreement between the Socialist Party and We can only have a decaffeinated reference to protecting public health; four words in a two-sheet document in which much more space is devoted to subjects far less important than public health. I believe that the disinterest of the left-wing groups in public health is shown in these documents. In this Parliament, the People's Group has already supported an initiative by the Socialist Party in 2017 as follows: "To urge the Government of Spain to remove from legal order the restrictions imposed on autonomous communities by limiting the rates of replacement of squares in the national health system when they affect stable jobs". It is not true, Mr. Torrado, that your repeated assertion in this Parliament that the People's Party only demanded the elimination of the replacement rate since Mr. Sánchez's rule. But it seems that you — and even we can — have forgotten your claims on this matter at the time they came to power — or in the face of the possibilities of doing so, of stepping carpets in the case of the commons. Once again this topic was re-debated in Commission 5th, at the initiative of the Group of the Galego Nationalist Block, and was approved unanimously with the following text: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to urge the Spanish Government to remove, as a basic rule, the rate of replacement of troops in the State Budgets Act of 2019, corresponding to each autonomous community the competence to determine the number of squares to be included in the annual public employment offer". As I said, it seems that socialists and We can forget in Madrid their demands to eliminate the limitation of the replacement rates. The minutes of the Interterritorial Human Resources Council contain the new request by the Government of Greece for the elimination of the said rate, — March 2019, this year. In the reply of the representatives of the Central Government, the Director General of Vocational Management, the Ministry of Health, who, according to his own report, said: "It concludes that it would be desirable for the measures introduced in the Autonomous Community of Galicia to be generalised but unfortunately not implemented in all communities." It seems that Galicia and the Health Council don't do it so bad, according to the Ministry itself. The advisory voice of the Ministry of Territorial Policy and Public Service responds to the request to eliminate the limitation of the rate: "As regards the proposal to eliminate the replacement rate, it will be taken into consideration and will be the subject of analysis especially because of its budgetary character". But the voice of counsel of the Ministry of Finance infuriates the encouragement to add that "first an analysis should be made of the effects that will cause the offers of places by stabilization and then a new study of the needs of each area." In short, there doesn't seem to be much haste or willingness on the part of representatives of the various ministries to eliminate the repo rate that was claimed by their own party just over a year ago. For this reason, the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Galicia presents the following initiative: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to reiterate its demand for the Spanish Government from withdrawing from the limitation of the rates of replacement of squares for the public health system". I look forward to the support of all groups and, for my part, to nothing but thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Núñez Centeno. I want to welcome the students of IES The Marines, of Betanzos, who have just entered the plenary. They are students in the administration and finance cycles of Administrative Management. Then the other cycles will come from the same school too. Welcome and thank you for visiting us. You now have the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group to Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u105	Welcome to Parliament. Mr. Núñez Centeno, you don't have to wait long; we're going to support your initiative. But we wanted to remind you that with this proposal the PP is recognizing the failure of the policies of the so-called austerity which he himself applied, which, must be remembered, have continued even after the economic crisis has been closed and have made clear already in our country — it is evident — its impact on the public health system. So let's do some history, too. Indeed, this replacement rate limitation system began in 2010, yes. It is also the year in which the first of the labour reforms of the crisis occur. The situation worsens in 2011, with the pact of great coalition in relation to the reform of Article 135 of the Constitution, which sets the principle of financial stability and control of the public deficit — and I stop here because this is the Gordian node and is not yet reversed. But the year 2012 is that it was the worst year — Rajoy and the PP in the Government — the last labour reform, Royal Decree Law for the Sustainability of the National Health System, the elimination of the principle of universality of health care, the Law of budgetary stability and financial sustainability. These are the policies of so-called austerity. I mean, Rajoy and the PP government have continued and strengthened these policies, which have already been found to have added to the crisis the majority of society. A decade after the crisis, inequality has increased and the levels of citizenship before the crisis have not yet been restored. What did he do to Junta in our country? For he embraced the cuts from the beginning and controlled the deficit with excessive zeal, and this meant a brutal deterioration in the public health system. The latest public job offers do not address the huge shortage of professionals and that's why our amendments are there. Of course, we agree to ask the Government to withdraw the limitation of replacement rates, but it is not only a question of replenishment of squares, but it must also take other measures which the Union cannot address: to commit itself to increasing health investment, to ensure labour stability, to enhance primary care, to develop more ambitious and comprehensive health plans and to care for older people. He said all these so-called austerity policies have led the Spanish state to be more than one point of GDP under the European Union's health investment, and this is also happening in our country. What happened? For the economic policy of this cut in social resources and rights did not go through an increase in income but rather, on the contrary, reduced taxes essentially to great fortunes. And that's also what we see here. What did it mean for health? Exponential increase in waiting lists, deterioration in the quality of primary care and health promotion activities, over-exploitation and frustration of staff and increased work insecurity — it is tremendous this precarious recruitment, these calls and excessive timeliness in health care, with those calls at three to work at three—. Therefore, it is not only a matter of demanding the Government of the State — it is good, we will support it — but we must also develop its powers and stop damaging the Greek public health. Because we're also in a context where this health dismantling coincides with an increase in needs for this population aging that we're pointing out. If there was a chapter that increased during the crisis: spending on private health concerts. So to sum up, and I don't use full time anymore. We are going to support, of course, the request to the Government of the State once again to withdraw the limitation of rest rates, but knowing that the position of the People's Party is very combative when there is a different government in the State and also knowing that it is insufficient because you also have to do the duties like the Government of Greece: primary care on the foot of war, the Hospital of Verín on the way to war, comarcal hospitals on the alert. No more, I support the initiative but zero hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u106	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez Verao. By the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado Cores has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u107	Good morning. And good day to all the boys and girls who accompany us from the rostrum. I wanted to start by asking the spokesperson of the People's Party to clarify some questions to me in his reply. One is about whether, from now on, the statements of the President of the Union here in parliamentary headquarters are based on jurisprudence. I say it because I know, in case the signatures of the professionals and the demands of the professionals are going to be from now on the roadmap of the People's Party, whether they're all worth it or whether they're going to be the ones that applaud the decisions of the People's Party, well; and those of all the thousands of professionals with signatures, with demands in the opposite direction, wrong. It's because we know where we're going to be. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And I would also like — and this is no longer a joke — to clarify a question that the president said: that births can be programmed. To clarify if that's going to be the roadmap they're going to follow, because the data already indicates that there's an excess of cesarean sections made in the public system. Because I really worried — and much — that I had said that births can be programmed! I'm worried, and I'm very concerned. [[Applause]] So, it would be good if you're going to clarify which one is... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u108	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u109	...it would be good if you'd clarify if that was going to be the road map. The replacement rate is only the practical application of the blind follow-up to neoliberal policies, of that savage capitalism. It is the practical application, as was the amendment to Article 135 of the Constitution — the one who made it possible to amend the Constitution of the night by morning and from Sunday to Monday — which obliges to pay first to banks and more than to meet the basic needs of the population. Or it is the practical application of the directives on budgetary stability, which aim to simplify public services, reduce the state, reduce the public, benefit the private sector. It's not a technical matter, it's a political decision. And indeed, the replacement rate implemented, put and passed in 2011, is soon not only maintained by the People's Party but it was further there. Because I have to remind you that, in March 2018, the People's Party signed an agreement with state trade union organizations, and they kept it and imposed it as a basic standard of compliance. With which, we're dealing with two questions. The first: a restorative rate that made it in the public system in general and in health care, which deals with us in particular, in the years 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014, only 10% of the squares that had been eliminated by retirements or other; in 2015, 50%; and from 2016, 100%. But with lies, with deceit, because only those that happen from that year on can be restored. All deleted in all those previous years cannot be restored. With which, of course, it is surprising that, despite this, the People's Party is trying to keep the report that there are more professionals in 2019 than in 2010 or 2009, when in all these years only 10% of the troops that have been lost have been rejected. The multiplication of the peas and the fish! We don't know exactly how they can do it. It is evidence that these ten years of the People's Party's government have brought back work conditions, loss of rights, precariousness and, therefore, deterioration of public health. The BNG will vote in favour of this initiative, of course; we have seen him claiming since the zero minute, in which it was approved. And, indeed, on November 28, 2018 — practically a year ago — the initiative put forward by the BNG that demanded the abolition of the replacement rate was approved in this Parliament because, among other things, it was harmful and it invaded powers. Because the competences in health care are from the German Government, and it turns out that the People's Party allows this permanent and ongoing invasion and that from Madrid it is intended to tell us how we have to govern our public services...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u110	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u111	...as we have to rule our health. We will therefore vote in favour of this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u112	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u113	And we tabled an amendment where what we are asking for is -- and finally, president -- that if you do a report and if you explain to us here what are all those managements...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u114	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u115	...which did the People's Party to end the replenishment rate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u116	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u117	...what actions, what actions and when they sent those writings asking for that removal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u118	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. For the Joint Left Group, Mrs. Solla Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u119	Good morning. Thank you, President. Mr. Centeno, I appreciate you personally and I don't understand very well why you bring these initiatives here. I believe that this kind of initiative is the only thing that makes the parliamentary debate worse. At the previous point, in the control session to the president, the president of the board referred to a phrase that was not his and that moved that public health should not be used for political propaganda. This initiative is a political propaganda initiative at a time when it is being clarified whether or not it is conforming to central government, Mr Centeno. And we're weak in favor of public health by using "the most" in the debates. It's done, we're against the replenishment rate. We've been against Zapatero, Rajoy, and Pedro Sánchez's replacement rate. Of course, the bulk of the years in which it applied went with the People's Party governments, with Mr. Rajoy. And if you remember, we, as long as we have entered this Parliament — and we have moved it on other occasions — have manifested ourselves against the architecture of the deficit that involved cutting into public services and applying not only the rate of rest, but limitations based on a debt that by that time, in 2012, we have qualified on many occasions partially as odious, Mr Centeno. We are tired of discussing this issue. But the problem is not only this element; we said from the beginning that it could not be met at the expense of the suffering of people, because cutting health personnel involved cutting rights and services and problems like what we are seeing today, when after retirement we have difficulty covering some health specialties and professions within the public health system. We say it back then and we say it now, and that's what we agree with. What happens is that one cannot make a partisan use of this element and not set budgets to take out these squares in the public contest. You — we are in the midst of a budget debate — are refusing to set aside items that mean, if at any time that rate of replacement is eliminated, a guarantee of public supply of employment and the elimination of the current precariousness in the public system. I would like us to make a bit of a memory because in 2013 Mrs Farjas's advisor decided that forced retirements in the Sergas would be applied by the Government of Galicia. These forced retirements that applied to medical professionals meant that many had to go when they were 65 years old, when they could still expand their retirement age, and they were not justified by an element that moved by that then the People's Party, which was to let the new ones in. It wasn't true; what was done was to amortize squares and lose the possibility that we now didn't have the situation we have. Obviously it wouldn't be enough just to extend that retirement age, but we would move an element that, in some way, would allow us to have more pediatricians, more anesthetists and more professionals in some categories that now have difficulties. You began to retire automatically in 2013 all the medical professionals who were 65 years old — since then almost all extensions were granted until the age of 70 — and that meant that from the beginning of 2013 until the end of 2015 they left with 65 years 459 optional and optional; and those pos come these muds. Today you use this item in a biased manner when, of course, you in other years were not only at odds with the application of the replenishment rate, but they forced you to retire professionals. We say that, in the end, each measure is adding to the deterioration of the public health system and, of course, that application of the restoration rates, coupled with forced retirement, which was not forced from any place, which was the decision of the Health Council, of Mr. Núñez Feijóo by that time with Mrs. Farjas, were progressively deteriorating the public health system. And today we have a problem that not only is assuming this government, but it will assume the following and the next one, because the problem of lack of staff due to twenty years of lack of planning and ten years of health cuts we are paying it now and it doesn't have a quick or short-term solution. So -- and I'm going to finish, I don't have time, you have to tell everything, Mr. Centeno, you have to tell everything...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u120	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u121	...and the government that has a paperboard in it, has a paperboard! So replenishment rates, of course, were...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u122	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u123	...but health budgets, too, because there would be no budget in this exercise to call OPEs if that replacement rate were eliminated.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Torrido Quintela has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u125	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. Welcome to our replenishment request. It's never late, if it's good, that's good. We welcome the positions that we consider correct, and we believe it is right to request that the replacement rate be removed. Welcome; this is the first time that the People's Party has taken an initiative in this Parliament and we therefore celebrate it. You know I always do, Mr. Núñez Centeno, the same appreciation. Six times it is presented in various formats, as initiatives, as amendments... six times before the Socialist Party voted in favour. The People's Party takes two; the second a few weeks ago. Now — I disagree with Mrs Solla — I think it is clear why they present the initiative: now they're going to go 7-3 -- it looks like a party from Real Madrid this, they're going 6-2 and now they're going to go 7-3 -- However, welcome; this is the first time they have introduced this initiative. It doesn't have to do with what governs Pedro Sánchez in Madrid; it certainly isn't about that. You mentioned that this government has called for that removal of the replacement rate, but it systematically mentions that March 2017 agreement in this Parliament. However, he has read the report of this year's Interterritorial Council. See if you can read me when asked for it in 2017, the record of that interterritorial council, or a writing they had presented or something. Because you always affirm in the name of your group that they did. And since we want to be as faithful as possible to the account, you can probably read that record where you requested it or that writing and it will be all the easier. Apart from the literality he put in the matter when he said he was cold or I don't know that, he was fine. Allow me three appreciations that explain also in fact part of our amendment. The first is the distribution of the effect of the replacement rate. As explained here, the replacement rate is the number, the volume of professionals who can be replaced according to the lower or basically retirements. He started and was half the intervention talking about Zapatero -- I, when Zapatero ruled, which I have a lot of consideration for, was still finishing my studies, but I have a lot of consideration for that president. And suddenly he did this kind of temporary loop and passed this last year already, but by the way, he forgot that at all that time he was ruling the People's Party. It was probably an error because you have very good consideration of the People's Party's government, but let me make an assessment: of all retirements in the Greek health system since the replacement rate was introduced — if you want to make a distribution of which is the responsibility of each one — practically 90% — or 86% if I don't miscalculate; i.e. almost five thousand — are the responsibility of the People's Party governments, because you want to distribute responsibilities. We, from our group, are in favour of the elimination of the replacement rate. So if you want to distribute responsibilities, that's one. Second question, eventuality. It's not the fault of the reinstatement rate that Junta is convicted of fraudulent contracts. You will appear literally in a statement: "frauding contract". It's not the fault of the reinstatement rate that Junta is doomed by the saturation of professionals. It's not the fault of the reinstatement rate that the Board is doomed to contract professionally structurally, because it hires them eventually. It's not her fault you've recently had to make up for 15,000 euros a pediatrician for filling up your consultation and not covering some other casualties. None of this is to blame for the replacement rate. It's because you have the space to hire don't use it, or use it with eventuality; it's not the replacement rate. Everything within budgets can be properly covered and you don't, and there's the problem. Because it's good to remove the replenishment rate, but why would they want to eliminate it if I still can't hire or even what they've allowed to hire? Because that's the problem. They advertise OPE for public employment but don't really call them. They say: Let's call...! But then tests are done very few, and that doesn't have to do with the replenishment rate, which, we insist, is good to eliminate. You have judicial judgments, not one, not two or three; you have many judicial judgments against you for fraudulently hiring. Fraudulently!, that says a sentence: "frauding contract." The counselor already said, "That's what there is." That's the answer. And thirdly, it is good that the restorative rate is eliminated, but since the responsibility of the decision on health recruitment — because responsibility on health is autonomous — is, in this case, the Council of Galicia, we say: that the State eliminates the restorative rate, but that the Board does its work. For example, all this eventuality that hires it, and if it gets deleted, it assumes that when it is deleted it actually contracts. Because it won't be like you're shooting at Madrid because there's a socialist government and then when the replacement rate is eliminated they find another excuse not to hire...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u126	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u127	So we understand that if they want to solve the problem, they will approve the amendments, because this initiative recognizes that there is a health problem...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u128	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u129	Now we understand that they will approve the amendments because what we want is to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u131	Or do you just want to shoot the Socialist Party? They'll approve you, won't they? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Núñez Centeno has the floor for the author group of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u133	I want to welcome the boys and girls from Betanzos, who accompany us. First of all, I would like to thank the groups for their support. I clearly understood that three groups would support the proposal. From the room I didn't understand it, but I think he'll support it. Of course, Mrs Solla, in order to speak to you about the preferential use of health care, you must have courage. And for the formation of a government in Madrid to decide which initiatives are presented in the Galician Parliament, we must also have value. I think you're very worried about treading carpets and why the government is going forward. I would be delighted if some member of your group took part in that government. I don't know if it's like that or not, we'll see. Well, today we have come here to talk about a need for Greek public health, which is to be allowed to stabilize many of those squares that had to be covered, in this way, in the face of the economic difficulties generated by the crisis that caused us to put that rate of rest — which we repeat was the Socialist Government. And that request was repeated on several occasions by the Health Council in front of the Central Government. We were accused of voting only in favour when Pedro Sánchez was ruling. We've already shown that it was a lie. And now you've asked Mr. Torrado for a document. Well, there's a document, a letter sent to the Minister of Health Dolores Monserrat — I think Minister Dolores Monserrat was not a socialist, I think he was Minister of the People's Party Rajoy. [[Mr. Núñez Centeno shows a document before the House.]] And he says, "Health and Unity Council of Galicia. Proposals to the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality. Human Resources and Training. Point 1. Employment stability — with the aim of reducing timeliness...—: "The State Administration could eliminate in the future State Budgets Act for 2017 the rate of replenishment or, at least, modify the rules for calculating vacancies that may be offered in the OPs, so that in the Public Health System in Galicia we can offer all the vacancies generated in recent years. Galicia requests to remove the replenishment rate. December 2016, Health Counsellor." Minister Monserrat of the People's Party. [[Applause]] We're not going to accept his amendment, the amendment he was talking about withdrawing "retire," because I think it's obviously clear that you're repeating a request. With regard to the second part of it, Mr Torrado, measures are being taken to reduce the eventuality. Continuity contract developed. When the replacement rate is eliminated, if you are able to convince the Government of Socialists and Podemos, all the squares that are deemed necessary for the needs of the system will be convened and reduced by less than 5% the eventuality. In addition, Welsh health must not be so damaged when you fixed it in the cross-sectional amendments with an increase of 1.13%. That's adding up, subtracting, multiplying and dividing. Check it out, Mr. Torrado. I'm from science, I don't know if you're from letters. Adding and subtracting exits 1.13%.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u134	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u135	I believe, Mrs. Prado, that it is also shown that the People's Party has already made a request to the Government of the People's Party in 2016. Mrs Solla, all the necessary squares are scheduled to be convened at the OPE and within the secondary constraints and the rate of replacement itself, which must be met.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u136	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u137	It's over, Mr. President. We're not going to accept those amendments. We want clarity on the proposal we make to eliminate the replacement rate. Support the proposal and work with its Members in Madrid to achieve positive results. Galicia has fulfilled and therefore had the possibility of (...) and has the economic capacity to do so with the necessary if the removal of the said fee is approved. [[Mr. Núñez Centeno utters words that are not clearly perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u138	Mr. Núñez Centeno, your time is up. I understand you don't accept the amendments. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela and da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the action to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the offer to patients of the public health of their surgical intervention in a concerted centre, in compliance with the Health Insurance Act
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u139	Amendments have been tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group on the Left, the Joint Parliamentary Group and the Nationalist Bloc Group of Wales.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u140	To formulate the motion not of law, Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u141	Thank you, President. It's already happened to be an act of the territorial entity to be a letter sent to someone. I'd appreciate it if you left me a copy, because we didn't, and it's always nice to know the government's concern. I guess they'll give me a copy and there'll be no problem with having all that information and sharing it. Besides, you know we've talked a lot about Mrs. Dolores Monserrat here, who said, by the way, that there was no medical problem in health. A lynx! There was no medical problem. Anyway! We are now considering a situation that also has to do with the problem of staff in the health system. It has to do with one of the serious consequences of staff problems in the health system. In this case, especially, it has to do with hospital care, because that's where the biggest waiting lists problems occur. We speak from the report of the People's Valedor every year, which evaluates the complaints received with regard to the various services and the different areas of the Government of Galicia. The area that most complaints receive — if I don't miss the data, exceeding 80% — is health care. I suppose you won't tell them anything more than 80% of the complaints received by the People's Valley have to do with the Health Council. And most of them, not all of them, have to do with waiting lists in the healthcare system. Why the waiting lists? Basically, because of a staff problem: there are fewer staff, the system lasts longer, slows attention and, therefore, it takes more days and delays. So people have the feeling that they're being cared for worse. Not worse in terms of quality of treatment—professionals are always very well valued by citizenship, of the best we have in Spain in ratings—but rather in the quality they receive and that they perceive the patient, the user or the user, because they understand that their attention is being delayed excessively. In this sense, we have often denounced that there are two waiting lists: one, the one that is published, and one that is not published. By making a parenthesis—even though many and many of this Plenary have already heard us many times about it, it is important because there are also people attending the debate and there are many young people who have not seen it in the first person but in their home—many will know that, when there is a hospital process, in which there is a consultation, and there has to be a surgical intervention, either greater or smaller, before, not long ago, a comedian and they give him an appointment to "x" time seen—after we will talk about the times. And now many times -- not always -- it happens that he's going to ask for a date and they say, "We'll call him already." "We'll call you" implies two things. One thing is, you don't have the ability to predict. Because then you can call him and say, "You have to come tomorrow." They call in four months and say, "You have to come tomorrow" and, perhaps, tomorrow is not the best day, or it's not possible sometimes. Sometimes it is, but it's not always possible. But there's a second thing going on. When they say "we'll call you" and within four months they say "you have to come tomorrow," the official waiting account is one day, because between they called him and they gave him the appointment it took one day. The person says, "I waited four months. And the government says, "No, you waited one day, and we have the best waiting lists in the world." This is basically the numerical debate on waiting lists. So the official waiting lists have that little trick. Small! What's going on? That all those who don't have a scheduled appointment are in one thing called "non-structural waiting lists." And they're in a drawer, pointed, obviously, and they're there with their names, their surnames and their phone. But no one knows how many are and no one knows how long they've been waiting. The government does, but he doesn't. So we have a falsity problem in publishing waiting lists. What's going on besides? There is a regulation based on the so-called Guarantees Act and the decree which developed it after stating that the priority is to give rise to all these demands within maximum time limits — for a surgical intervention, for example, it is sixty days, and the health system is what it proposes that everyone is entitled to be treated at that time. What happens when the delay occurs and it goes beyond the 60 days? That patients are offered the possibility of being operated in a concerted center; that is, in a private center to which Junta pays an extra to attend to that patient or that patient. Patients usually don't want to be in hospitals and therefore tend to access them. That's natural, because if one of them says, "It's gonna take you here and we don't know how long" -- and they can take a long time -- and they can operate within two days in a center next to it, because people prefer to be operated. But there's some trick in that process. The trick is, for example, that they never tell them how long it will take. And there's also another trick: that they're urged to accept because, if not, they might take a lot longer. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Let's say they're going to the end of the queue, if there's a direct listing. And this is basically conchasing with the system to promote drift towards concerted hospitals. Therefore, since derivation theoretically is voluntary because the patient chooses, there is no problem. It's free, of fantastic freedom! They can operate in two days or we don't know when they're gonna operate on you or we can't tell you anything. It's a little half-controlled freedom, let's say. So, from this situation, which also identifies the valator of the people and which explicitly says it, what we are proposing is to incorporate into the system a measure: when any patient or patient has to be intervened and, therefore, you have to inform him, he has reached the maximum waiting time, that he needs to know that he can take a little longer or that he can go to a concerted center, that the patient has the full freedom to choose. How is freedom full? Knowing what happens if you accept and know what happens if you don't. Because many patients will sometimes decide that they want to stay in public health, mainly because they trust themselves more. Trust in public health is much greater than in private. Since they're more confident, we want to give them the option that they know how long they can take and that information is a commitment -- it's not gonna be that we tell them it's going to take a month and then we have four months without paying attention. But at that moment when they're offered that derivation, they can give them a possible date of operation if they agree to remain in the public system. It doesn't seem like a very complicated decision. If you're able to assume that the delay is going to be long is because you're able to have a forecast how much that delay is going to be. We report the patient. Let's give him the real, free chance to choose. This offers it to the people's valet as a possibility. Many groups have offered it, and the groups have talked about it — this time with little success because the People's Party usually accepts that the system is as perfect as it is. We've seen this improvement. It's actually small in the procedure. It's not an improvement that costs directly, it's just an estimate that has the greatest possible approximation to what reality is and serves as a commitment. What could we do? From that, we could actually know which option is preferred by citizens, because it cannot be taken as freedom of choice to a hospitalized patient who wants to solve the problem as soon as possible, because that exceeds any other freedom of choice. So we've been thinking about this. To the thread of that, what are we thinking? We plan that there is a staff problem and therefore we need to increase the volume of recruitment, which will have to do with that replacement rate debate. But there's a lot of recruitment space that the Galician Union is not using — and should —. There's a lot of professional hired from Monday to Friday, fired, and you're gonna hire him back on Monday to fire him on Friday so he won't pay him on weekends. This happens to the professionals who care for us in the Public Health System in Galicia, and that has nothing else to do with any other measure than a labor operation that takes place in the Health Council. We argue that this must be improved, and from that, we may have improvements in the waiting lists. Traditionally, we always defend him. We know what we're going to find every time the volume of people is published waiting on non-structural waiting lists. In addition, as the citizens say, we have half the average in Spain of people waiting for an intervention that takes less than fifteen days. But we have more than twice as many people who waited for more than six months. That's what people say when they are asked — who have their quotes, who have their data — despite the fact that the Union denies this and that the People's Party constantly denies it. People were asked how long they waited, we've got half the average of Spain waiting for less than fifteen days and we've got twice as much waiting for more than six months. We have defended this here with appointments from the system itself, officially presented here and always qualified as anecdotes. The system is full of anecdotes! It's so full of anecdotes that anecdotes become normal. So we argue that more personnel are needed to solve this problem. By the way, if we had more services in the comarcal hospitals, how much better would we solve this problem and without saturating the professionals in the city hospitals! This would be fundamental. [[Applause]] And we're not going to face professionals, to face professionals with each other to see who's left with a service or another. Having said this, we are what we stand for is, precisely, more personal to reduce waiting lists and this proposal for measures to tell patients, users, what their real situation is and to maintain an intervention commitment so they can freely choose whether they want to be attended to in a concerted centre or stay in the public system. Because from that, we would have more people — we certainly believe — defending ourselves in the public system. Because, for now, it is true that, despite the words of the People's Party, official reports of how many people have never volunteered to give. The data has never been white on black. So we defend this measure, which we believe is important and interesting, which is also defended by the People's Valley, and we expect support from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. We welcome students from IES The Marines from Betanzos, but in this case students from the administrative service cycles. Welcome to this Parliament, which is the Parliament of all. And you have the floor, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u143	Well, what's at the bottom of this initiative has already been said by the proponent. It's the impossibility of the public system to meet all health needs and a policy of looking for this alternative in private health concerts. Of course, we're going to support this non-law proposal, but the amendments we tabled are going to move towards minimizing this remedy to private health by the public system. It is certainly true that this situation is moving the initiative. People move their complaints — as the initiative says — about the difficulty of giving up the offer of intervention in a concerted centre; the problem that puts the initiative in the absence of information. We agree that it is essential to know the waiting times in the public system in case of giving up being derived from a concerted centre. But the reality is that it's not just about that, nor is the problem of derivation to private centers harmless for patients. Because, in the end, the Health Insurance Act is kind of blackmail: either it agrees to go to private or we don't know when we can attend it or we're committed to meeting it in a specific time frame, now choose. This is blackmail. It would certainly improve by knowing the actual waiting times of that wait in the public system. But what is at the bottom — as I say — is the deficiencies in public health and the lack of human resources. Meanwhile, it is moving to citizenship that private health will quote the patient in a few days' time, because the inability of the public system to quote it before. The reality is that it's not as simple, either, because it's not the same quality of attention as in private health as in the public system. They often tell patients that they will be derived and that the same criteria will be applied to a public centre, but this is neither in surgical techniques nor in specialists with neither staff nor maximum day-to-day or health protection equipment. The presence of twenty-four hours a day and 300 sixty-five days a year of public health is a guarantee of quality that the system of private centres cannot offer — especially as far as staff — as it is concerned. If it's wrong in public health, which is a terrible temporality and precariousness, in private health -- we see it in the debate in Povervisa -- for it's still worse. Even some patients who have transferred to us that their reference professional in the public ask them not to agree to be derived from a private center because they will be better operated on that intervention in the public system and, even if they have to wait, claim and try to operate as soon as possible in the public system. As for the commitment to establish those sixty days of maximum time for non-emergency surgical interventions, or forty-five days for specialist consultations, for first diagnostic and therapeutic tests, because it is already proven to be an absolute lie. As you yourself said, the official reality of this data — that they never really move away and the reality of the people who suffer these hopes — is tremendous. They're not anecdotes, they can pass us a lot of tickets, as people call them, from what they give them to the tests. I have this one from a patient, for example, who gives it to him on February 5, 2018. This is one where you will call it for a first consultation of trauma — which in this case may be for an important knee intervention. And he says, "Whether we call her or send her a letter -- February 5, 2018 --." The date of the first consultation is December 12, 2018, seven months later. [[Mr Vázquez Verao shows the document you have read.]] And this is a constant. And you just tell yourself -- as the proponent said -- the waiting time since they quote it -- it's worth redundancy -- for that December date, you haven't counted the wait since February. Therefore, for sick people who are awaiting surgery, the problem of derivation to a private center is not a calendar issue — which is also it — involves anxiety, involves fear, implies insecurity, feelings of exclusion from the public system. We have to do everything possible to end this system that depends so much on private care, on private hospitals. We have to bet precisely on this increased investment in health — at least equal to the European Union's average —. Of course, we will vote in favour of this initiative because it is essential to know the information, to know the waiting times, that the Union will move what is the situation of the real waiting lists and that ultimately people, patients, we can decide when we have all the information, but without forgetting the background. We cannot depend in this way on private health by our public health system.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u144	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez Verao. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u145	For the truth is that there is a real public health in Galicia, the one they suffer, the one they suffer, the one they see every day the Greeks and the Greeks; and then there is the virtual health of the People's Party, the health of lies, propaganda, of convincing the Greeks and the Greeks that what they suffer every day is not true, of convincing the thousands of Galicians who have been waiting for months, even years, awaiting consultations, diagnostic tests, surgical interventions, because, that's not true, that the statistics of the People's Party tell them that it's not true, and a statistic can't spoil a person's reality. That's how here, one day yes and the other also, we see the People's Party act. And beyond what they're trying to repeat and repeat and say again, the worsening of waiting lists in recent times is clamorous and constant. What is the People's Party doing? Well, now instead of giving the data, hiding all those people who aren't on the official list, on the structural lists, or what they call "the mailboxes," all those people who are put there in a mailbox and who have no information about what their health process is, they don't know when they're called, they don't know how long they're left. That's the situation. But now the People's Party does what it does are waiting lists of serious cases, of those that it regulated in the Law of guarantees that let it appear that this data is the total data. And that information, transferred like this, because it can make a lot of people think it's giving the real data on the waiting lists. And that's not the reality. Either one of us suffers from this reality, any one who has a relative or a neighbor knows that reality is that one's waiting for months, and even years, without having any information about what's going on. There are delays in the first consultations but, above all, in successive consultations there are delays of months; and in some cases they even come to years. Clinical psychology professionals, for example, report more than 8,000 people on a waiting list for psychiatry. How many months do you consider, with the tremendous deficit that there are professionals in this specialty, which assumes this waiting list — especially, waiting lists for successive consultations? What kind of treatment, what kind of health care, lends itself to people who are late for their first consultation and, above all, it takes months to be followed up? Well, absolutely, an attendance of a bad quality. And there are waiting lists in the diagnostic tests. You go to the first consultation and then diagnostic tests take months in general. And there are waiting lists in diagnostic tests, in TAC of oncotoxic patients who are with their treatments — chemotherapy and radiotherapy — that their doctors ask them to test them to see how that treatment goes and that, when they get to do these tests, they don't have them. A practical case: a person who had to do the review to continue treatment in May and who had not done the TAC in September to find out what the evolution of his illness was. That's the constant of every day and there's no propaganda from the People's Party that can hide it. There's no propaganda that can hide that reality because it's the one that the Greeks and the Greeks live every day. That is why we are going to support this initiative presented by the Socialist Party today. We tabled an amendment to ensure that all waiting lists are made public immediately. If the People's Party really had nothing to hide, and that information that it transfers was real, I don't know why you're so afraid to publish the lists. I don't know why he approved the law that, instead of publishing them every three months, he would publish them every six months. And yet, post them makeup. If the reality is what you describe, what problem is there that we all have and all the information about what is that reality? The reality is that these "buzzes" are full of people who are not statistics, they are real people who need health care and who, with these existing gross waiting lists, are not receiving it in time or form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u146	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. For the Joint Left Group, Mrs. Solla Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u147	Thank you, President. I am a little calmer with the Socialist Party's explanation because the initiative was a little complicated to understand, among other things, because we understand — and that is why we are presenting the amendment — that, as is the case with the information on the current waiting lists, a publication of the waiting times of the concerted centres depends on how it is done. Just as it's being reworked or manipulated when the structural lists are published, and when people enter those structural lists, it could lead to encouraging by the current Government that people are more likely to go to the concerted rather than to the public. That was the question, and that's why we proposed that replacement amendment. We have an obvious problem and that's why we've been asking for non-structural waiting lists for years. I have here the request I made in this legislation, of December 15, 2016 — non-structural waiting lists of the Galician Health Service. It's been three years and I'm still waiting for a request for information in the course of article 9. As you know, the Galician Union has a month to answer and we've been three years, three years! But the worst thing is, I've already made this request in the previous legislation and it hasn't answered either. I've been waiting for a request for information to be answered for seven years. It is information that the law does not oblige us to publish — the non-structural waiting lists — but that Members and Members have the right to request; and the Union, the obligation to answer us. Without that data from the actual waiting lists we cannot evaluate what the needs of the services are, because those that are published — if explained here — are somehow affected by the management that is made of the lists themselves: when the person enters the list, if it exits because it is sent to the other side, if it exits because it is called to go to a concert, refuse or accept that request... We've been explaining this question here for years. In fact, what the Health Council did was purge the professionals who were transferring the hidden waiting lists that were there. I have to remember again the problem with the head of ophthalmology within the University Hospital Complex of Pontevedra. We have examples of the failure to comply with article 16 of the Galician Health Act. The Health Act has been changed to what is appropriate, but in article 16, which speaks of guarantees, regulations and organisation, and of information and publicity that must be given to such information, it is not complied with. We also discussed it when the People's Party decided to amend Galician Health Act, but precisely to retain rights. And now we have this situation. We understand, it seems quite clear and quite evident, that it does not meet the maximum waiting times — with the law of the People's Party of 2013 but not with the previous one — in many specialties and evidences. And that requires means — and we have asked for them many times — to keep the public health system open. And it's related to the previous initiative, because there's no way to address the waiting lists if there's no health personnel to do it. In fact, here are examples of diagnostic tests. It's a real problem!, it's a real problem and there's a lot of oncoholic patients waiting for evidence that you have to make a complaint about the claim. And those tests take a long time. Does it have effects on your health? Maybe, maybe not, but we can't take that risk. And the Law of guarantees is not fulfilled, nor does the Law of Health in that regard. We understand that it is mandatory to publish these data which are requested here and transfer them to parliamentary groups. You have to undertake not to close the services, because today we continue planning service closures when there are waiting lists. And the summer comes or the flu season comes, and we'll have discussions over and over again about why there were closed beds and closed units when there was a need. And that's a problem with a lack of staff. And it's also a problem because, of course, since the adoption of the Health Insurance Act, more things have happened. Things have happened that served to privatize health services, and that's why we also included it in the amendment. We denounce him here in this legislation. Our group reported that privatizations were signed at EOXI da Coruña and at EOXI de Lugo, consultations, diagnostic tests, surgical interventions. It is no longer necessary to use the Health Insurance Act because they have already put it on paper and the derivations are done automatically in the Coruña and Lugo. They might say it's not a high percentage of the global, but it's a little bit after a while that's going to retire from public health. The situation is already — I believe — a degree of deterioration which, as was said before — and finished — is the only element that the palia is the quality of care provided by health professionals. Anyway!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u148	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u149	Let's see what happens to the amendments. In any case, the intention of the initiative is further explained, and it frightens us because, in fact, a standard is usually used to do the opposite, which is what we are seeing in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u150	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. You have the floor for the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Amigo Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u151	Good morning, thank you very much, President. You will understand, Mr. Torrado, that my intervention is going to go in the same direction of response as a few days ago, in a very clarifying manner, gave the Director General of Health Care. The Galego Health Service guarantees, through its information systems and its actions, the established requirements of the characteristics and content of general information on patient waiting times, ensuring the comparability of data with other autonomous communities established in article 4 of Royal Decree 605/2003, in which information on structural waiting lists will be published on a semi-annual basis; and so is Sergas, publishing information on its website. In addition, as set out in Royal Decree 605/2003, Sergas users have access to the custom dating and waiting lists information system, which allows, always ensuring data confidentiality, access to the custom query on their surgical waiting data, in queries and tests, accessible through the É-Saude web page. The Health Insurance Act establishes a system of guarantees of maximum time for access to public health benefits, through which Sergas establishes with each patient, to which a surgery, consultation, proof or guarantee is indicated, an individual undertaking to provide an assistance response within the maximum periods prescribed in the law. At the time that a patient is included in the waiting records for an intervention, he/she is given the accreditation document of the right of guarantees, which includes the date of inclusion and the commitment of care within the specified time limit. Opposition gentlemen, when a Sergas patient needs a scheduled surgical operation, he is always asked where he prefers to operate, whether in his reference center or in a concerted center. And of course, Mrs. Vázquez Verao, who explains that the concerted centre offered to resolve his illness meets all the standards of quality and safety demanded by Sergas. The concerted centres are authorized by the Health Council and, in addition, are accredited by the Territorial Chiefs Service Inspectorate. When a patient is told that he can operate in a concerted center and he decides that he wants to do so in his reference center, he simply continues with the same date of inclusion in the waiting list, and his surgical intervention will be programmed according to the available resources, always guaranteeing his decision and, of course, is always supervised by the specialists responsible for his hospital center. Information, all of it, Mr. Torrado. Data in Galicia: average waiting time for a surgical intervention, in December 2018 was 61.6 days, which means a decrease of 4.8 days compared to December 2017, the highest figure has been reached since the waiting list register was formalized in 2003. Can it get better? Of course, and that's what the Council works on. In Sergas, we work every day on policies to improve waiting lists, always giving priority to gravity, with a firm commitment to speeding up assistance and, of course, always trying to equip users with decision-making capacity, in order to improve the service provided to the population and to increase their level of satisfaction in parallel. I want to bring to this House the words that also made clear in your speech by the Director General of Health Care and his willingness to continue to work on improving the information that patients receive in relation to waiting, in an effort to bring to all stakeholders a higher level of information possible, addressed to the decision-making of this one. Concerts have been talked about. It is not bad to remember that in the Bipartite 216 million euros were spent in private health concerts and the budgets we are currently discussing now account for 205 million. We could say it's 13 million less, but although Mr. Lago isn't, as he's used to talking about inflation, that 218 million in 2009 would be 245 million today. That is, the private concert game of the Bipartite was, in real terms, 20 percent higher than the current one. I didn't want to finish my intervention without leaving a reflection. Opposite gentlemen, with health, you don't play -- you've heard me more times -- and less demagogy is done. Look, every day you're plowing Greek citizenship, you're doubting, you're missing the truth. Look, the sick, the really sick...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u152	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u153	... – already finished – to people who need to use health care, those people don't cheat on them, because they know and use the health they have, the health we all have. You said the guarantee law would end up in a massive private diversion. The facts prove that it wasn't. You said the German Government would let people die for not giving them medication, and the facts, backed by justice, also show that it wasn't. I'm done. Now they want to say more about the waiting lists, the comarcas hospitals... the reliability is the same as the previous statements...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. Time's up. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Friend, you're no longer listening, you're out of time, far out of time. There's a time to talk. For the author group of the non-law proposition Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u155	Thank you, President. Firstly, I would like to thank the groups for their support and for the support of the Joint Left Group with the explanation I have made. I'm delighted to accept the amendments to the Galician Nationalist Block and the Joint Group, which, although they disperse a bit, are fine, and if the Group of the Left's Joint Parliamentary Group seems right, we will admit its addition, because ours believes it is explained. I understand, Mrs. Friend, that you gave the explanation the CEO gave. It's legitimate and natural, in addition, because it's good sometimes to ask something to the Board and to the PP, which you can see that the Board has just loaded up the Parish and the Ourenses' PP has nothing clear about it. It's good to reinforce some ideas, I mean, because they could have a disagreeant opinion. [[Applause]] So, since you're telling me to listen, if you were in Verin the other day, I'd see that you were listening very well. Maybe he heard it from Ourense. Look at the MP's motion, see if you've heard that from Ourense if you heard from Verín. Also from the Barco it was heard that the chief of Pediatrics of the Barco also says that suppressing the parish man of Verín is a fool. By the way, it's also a professional who says it, because it's good this is that professionals are very good when they give us the reason. If I didn't hear you wrong, you would say that a user can know the situation in which your queued process is located. Yes, that's true. What we're thinking is that there are a lot of users and therefore a user can know their own but it would be interesting, in terms of management, to be all-knowing. Not the DNI, the surname and the pathology that you have, but what is the number, what is the percentage of them that are attended in time, how long they last, etc.; know in global terms. That's the management information we would like, but that's not easy. I don't usually respond to these budgets, but it's important. You compare that of the Bipartite, that of time, with the real budgets they now propose about concerts. Sure, but what's the problem? What the Board of Auditors says — I will not say — is that these budgets are a lie and that the increase in these shares, at the end of the year, in the budget run, can change with the budget executed last year. They're a lot higher. So don't tell me what budget is because budget is a personal decision. They can budget zero, but that doesn't mean they're spending zero. Give me those executeds, when they're meant for concerts, and so we can solve something. The decision is not entirely free. Patients are not informed about how long they may be; they are not informed. We ask: if it's done, why don't you approve it? What is the problem with providing patients with information as soon as it takes them to stay in the public? Because they prefer, because the working conditions of professionals, being very good professionals in private, are very bad and, therefore, they are much more saturated, have less resources, and people prefer public health. That's basically what they say.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u156	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u157	So we don't understand what would be the problem of approving this, unless you're in the same place as usual and any proposal that comes from the opposition say, "Very bad, because they're very alarmists." I still haven't been asked if they're alarmists, too, their mayors, who are protesting against suppressing the parish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the deficiencies that present the facilities and the lack of appropriate teaching material at the Higher Music Center of Vigo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u159	No amendments were tabled. Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor to make the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. Good morning. Let me also greet two students from the Conservatory of Music, the specialties of Ancient Music and Composition, who accompany us on behalf of the Board of Delegates of this center. They will be asked - possibly with reason - why our parliamentary group brings to the plenary an initiative which would possibly, by its content, lead us to the Fourth Committee on Education and Culture. The reason is very simple: the arts education centers, the higher music centers, such as the Vigo case and the Coruña case, are centers with a singularity such that their attention should be part of the policy of any government that prays to protect what is most precious, such as the higher education centers. In the specific case of artistic teachings, since 2008 they have had a Galician Council of Higher Artistic Teachings. And they count on this council because, as stated in the decree on which this institution is created, these teachings are dedicated to giving the highest qualification of the personal and professional future of the arts. And we must not forget that, as a minority teaching with regard to the overall student of our autonomous community, we are going to school in this course no less than 7,232 students. So we're not talking about residual lessons for two reasons: first, because they're higher education and, secondly, because they're studying this number of students. The Education Council, within the declarations of intent that are supposed to be included in the budgets, says that the goal for this kind of teaching is to achieve a better adequacy of the infrastructure and the resources for the users, taking into account their dimension and improving the teacher-pupil ratio. And he's also talking about improving the functional features of security and habitability of the facilities so they can influence the energy efficiency of the buildings. All right, as a statement, irreproachable. The fact is that the Education Council itself has within its budgets a specific program for artistic teachings, the 422E program, in which we can read that the Council tries to ensure that the offer made to its student is carried out in the widest range of artistic teachings to complete its training with appropriate facilities. Regarding the latter, the council itself says in its memoirs that, having analyzed existing demands, the most relevant are two: the demand for repairs, enlargements and improvements in artistic teaching centers and the demand for new supplies, equipment and replacement of damaged material. Despite this, and analyzing the full budget executions of the years 2016, 2017 and 2018, with regard to what is initially planned, we found ourselves with the following evidence: in 2016 the Council gave this program with 33,600,000 euros. In the end, he spent 29. I mean, he left out of spending in specific centers of artistic teachings, four and a half million euros only in 2016. In 2017 it initially budgeted thirty-six million euros and spent thirty; hence it left without running 5,600,000 euros. And in 2018 he planned almost thirty-seven million euros and executed thirty-two. So he left out almost five million euros. In total, in these three years — 2016, 2017 and 2018 — counsellors have left behind in artistic teachings — and this is relevant because they diverted these funds into other chapters — a total of 15 million euros. Fifteen million euros in three years! We'll see the budget execution data for 2019, when we know them, and we'll see what gives you the nearly 40 million euros you budget in the 2020 budget. But, in parallel to all this unexecuted amount of money and dedicated to other things, and not to artistic teachings, there have been serious problems of maintenance in the Higher Conservatory of Music of Vigo since several courses that hinder the normal development of teaching activities. There are penguins—in fact, at the end of this October, there were floods in one of the buildings—there are deficiencies in the classrooms, there are bad sound and thermal conditions... these last ones, the thermals, make the student have to use gloves to protect himself from the cold. You imagine what it is to play a musical instrument with gloves on; it is almost equal — given the health debate we have in this plenary — to imagine a surgeon operating with boxing gloves and therefore seems inadequate. And we must not forget that this High Conservatory of Vigo Music and the Coruña are the only two centers in the entire autonomous community that impart higher levels of music teaching. This centre also counts with twenty-five specialties — which I will not read because obviously will not give me time; but the fact that it has twenty-five specialties gives good account of the importance of this upper center. It is very worrying — it is clear — the degree of abandonment in which the heads of the Education Council have joined this centre. And most of all, when, as you have made yourself manifest — I have just referred to that — there is budgetary capacity, since you have left 15 million euros without spending in just three years. And the truth is that this abandonment refers not only to installations, or equipment, but to absolute disregard for the higher teaching character in which the Government of the People's Party has the higher education of music. I remind your lords that, within this same legislation, the majority group has prevented the adoption of a non-legislative proposal presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, in which it was requested to set up a working table with the three Greek universities and representatives of higher artistic teaching centres so that a process of acceding to these teachings would be made possible for them to be incorporated into the university system in Galicia. And this is very relevant; and it's very relevant for those two people who are there, it's very relevant for the thousands of students who over the years pass through the upper conservatory. One thing is having an equivalence in the title and the other is having a title. Obviously, these are different realities. In case all of this was little, we need to have -- say -- a small reference to what could cost a standard musical equipment. For example, a cola piano like those in the upper conservatories costs from ten thousand euros. That, a low-end one, and a high-end one can reach up to 40,000 euros, and everything there can be in the middle. A battery can cost from a thousand euros; a cello, from six thousand; a bombardment, from three thousand, and so on. And that material decays as a result of inadequate temperature and humidity conditions in teaching centers. On this matter, I will be allowed to quote a Royal Decree of 1997 laying down minimum conditions for safety and health at work. I'll be told that an educational center is not a place of work; for it is, of course, a place of work, and not only for teachers, but also for students. And it comes to the story because, in the case of the Autonomous Community of Madrid, the labour inspectorate seriously warned the competent councillor about the extreme temperature conditions that were reached in the teaching centres according to the external temperature — or too much heat or too much cold. And it says this real decree that the right temperature must be between 17 and 27 degrees centigrade. Obviously, I don't think a student puts gloves on his hands when he's at 17 degrees; if he does, he's at quite less and therefore turns out to be an uncomfortable environment. Relative humidity must be between 30% and 70%. I think it's pretty easy to understand that when it's raining inside a building, moisture increases in a rather considerable way. So our parliamentary group is bringing this non-law proposal. A part of it is already out of date, since, of course, the board had to act on the evidence that it rained inside the buildings and therefore carried out some urgent action. But what this building needs, what this Vigo Music Conservatory needs, is that energy efficiency actions are carried out for thermally efficient isle and efficient, and that these actions, which are important and necessary, take place during the non-lethal period of the summer of 2020, of the next year. In addition, if you provide this centre with educational resources that guarantee the quality of the proper training these students receive. Especially because there's money. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. The Joint Group has the floor to Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u162	I want to welcome students from the Vigo Conservatory as well. We are, of course, going to support this non-law proposition. Since the creation of this conservatory, at the municipal initiative, in 1956, it has become — as has already been stated — a reference for the higher education of musical teaching in our country. And the reality is that the conditions of this center are inescapable, given the formative category and also -- we added -- the cultural category and the cultural importance it has in the city. Their buildings, built at different times, have a lot of deficiencies that need to be met, and budgets this year don't give much hope either. Since 2003, for example, the highest degree of composition, musicology, pedagogy of music, interpretation... offers many specialties. I'm not going to quote them, but you have to highlight your role in the cat's teaching. In addition to what was said about cultural activity, the Martín Códax Auditorium was inaugurated in 1995 and there are synergies and collaboration, and ultimately there is a dynamic cultural life in the city and there are high-quality performances thanks to the Higher Conservatory of Music. There are bilateral agreements with European conservatories and music faculties; here, at Vigo conservatory, attends students of various nationalities. In the end, it turns out that our country is a musical power; only the Government needs to understand it. In addition, it even has a sociocultural role, with loans from instruments, transfer of facilities or material to people outside the educational community. And finally, of course, it is necessary to repair the regrettable deficiencies that prevent the normal development of the training activity. It is unacceptable that the student will suffer a few years of moisture, cold, penguins...! It's just playing with gloves is absolutely unacceptable! You're not playing at dawn at the procession of the Holy Week of Zamora; you're training in your career, which is a tough race. You're training and you need to play in proper conditions. And besides, the cold affects the instruments, which are expensive, and also affects the tunings. I don't want to think about what it's like for a cold camera music rehearsal. It is tremendous, since the instruments respond differently to those conditions. They have to have the right conditions and not the right ones now: the uplifted park, useless glass projectors, damaged radiators, rough walls... These are inescapable conditions for the quality that is given in this upper center. And the underlying problem also points to the proponent: the non-consideration of artistic teachings as a university education, and neither the approval — or, let's say, the subscription — to the Greek university system, which must also be accompanied by a social acceptance that they are teachings with the same rank. If this were to happen on a campus -- which also happens, of course, these kinds of problems -- there would be a more immediate reaction. So because of their cultural value, their formative value, and because it's a right to have artistic teachings in a quality environment, we're going to support this initiative. The institutional and economic support of the Union must go hand in hand, because the budget for infrastructure and equipment for artistic teaching centres in 2020 is only EUR 40 million — to see if it is sufficient for the needs — and especially that execution that, as we have seen, has not been complete in recent years. All the courage for the student and all the success in this initiative, to see what happens.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Verao. On behalf of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u164	Thank you, President. Good morning to all the students at the High Conservatory of Music. I will try not to repeat much with some questions that have already been said, which I think are perfectly explained by both the Socialist Group and the Joint Group: the singularity, the potentiality and the importance that this upper centre has for the whole country. Among other things, not only for being a pointer, but also, as it was already mentioned, for the international project he has, for his relationship with many countries: 80 conservatories or music faculties throughout Europe, more than nineteen countries with Erasmus exchanges for many students — not only Greek that goes to other parts of the European Union and Europe, but also a lot of students who come to our country to learn. And that also accounts for the capacity, potential and formative quality that we find in the conservatory. It was also referred to... I think it is very important to stress that the Conservatory of Vigo Music is the only one that imparts this level of training in traditional and popular music, especially of the Galician gaita. There are many people — besides, many of whom we are going to talk about Lugo — who are a lot of Lugo students who are going to study these higher and professional studies of Vigo gaita; it is important, in this sense, that they contain all the conditions and their covered rights in which they are specifically concerned — which is what this initiative is talking about — with the facilities and infrastructures. In addition, we have seen publicly, through social networks — because the student has made public images — what was the situation in the past few weeks in this conservatory. They were not drips, as it was said at the initiative; they were streams of water, literally, going down the stairs. And this situation was not new, because it had already happened on previous occasions; let's remember, for example, that in 2014 it was part of the roof of one of the buildings — these buildings, the new one is forty years old and the new one, more than twenty. In fact, things, with the passage of time and without maintenance, cannot be in the optimal conditions for their use: moisture problems, water filtrations, uninsulated windows, drips — as we speak —, streams of water flowing down the stairs... We, from BNG, will support this initiative. As has already been pointed out, there is absolute waste, when there are budget splits that are not being executed, and which are precisely intended — or should go to the maintenance and conservation of these spaces. And we, for our part, just want to point out that: our favourable vote of a space we remember is the competence of the Galician Union for 30 years, specifically since 1989. That seven situation doesn't last any longer and that no one has or has to play an instrument with gloves or see streams of water down the stairs. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u165	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. The Joint Left Group has the floor to Mrs. Cuña Bóveda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u166	Good morning to all and to all. Thank you, Madam President. A special greeting for school students. Let me start with a little pace, because it's about the music school. The students themselves launched on networks, on the one hand, a GIF—i.e., a quick graphics exchange format—in which streams are seen sliding down the stairways below the conservatory, and also a few more pictures on which is seen mofo in the pianos in use—not on the piano that broke down to perform homage to Erik Satie. Cold, very cold, of November; cold of December, penguins and holes on the roof, plowed like crabs on the walls. And it rains, rains, rains in and rains out; parked up, moisture, insufficient heating. Irrationality and incompetence of PP administration officials. New pictures? No, no, no, no. Spent words? Maybe you do. Problem repeatedly denounced, shame and ill-treatment not only of students and teachers of artistic teachings. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, they assume that the cold and rain should not go in or shut up in the Greek classrooms. Don't start. Doubts continue. Listen, please, listen. And it was mentioned here in 2014: it's been five years — five years! — since the student and the teacher warned of the precarious situation they are in. Five years! It is well done, Mr. Álvarez, this initiative. In 2014 the building had to be closed by the fall of a part of the roof; so it spent five years—five!—. This is serious, very serious! It's not an isolated case, it happens in other centers. Is it a bookstore? No, it's a nightmare. The President of the Bureau, Mr Santalices, tells us — and quite rightly enough — that we should set an example, that we should be vaccinated against the flu. The Education Council should set an example by taking care of the health and education of our young people and girls and our teachers. That's what makes us think? That they care about a pepper or that they care about very little or that they're indifferent. It's a very serious accusation, yes; but with their politics they don't deny it. Snore, deaf ears. And since they won't resign, because they won't consider it of any relevance, they at least rectify; they have no other. Mrs. Corina Porro said five days ago that she was going to claim from the Board that the budget would be improved by 2020. But if you budget, you have it, you have it! What Mr. Luís Álvarez said very well is that he is not executed. What are we going on? At least the lady delegated to Vigo who reports a little better, which is a coat of hair. I'm making it uncomfortable. They take seriously the maintenance of educational facilities, they stop mistreating arts and artistic teachings, they comply with the law — because it has been said about law, some important article has been spoken about here. Please review Decree 171/2016 of 24 November. That's where the curriculum is set, we're talking about direction, we're talking about production, we're talking about management and we're talking about the annex to the expansion of interpretation. All the studies here have been reported, and congratulations must be given, and it must also be said that the new bakery's oven, possibly with the best formation of our entire history, will come out and is coming out of there. But they buy the law! What does the law say? Please, I will just quote a paragraph; the law obliges the Administration to act on human and material resources, taking into account the European guidelines for higher artistic teachings in the European Higher Education Area: "The education board will conduct human and material resources management in order to ensure the best use of these resources with criteria of rationality and efficiency". What we're seeing is a lot of irrationality and very little efficiency. And we will also bring here an initiative to comply with the law as well as with the European supplement to the title, very important for these boys and girls.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u167	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u168	Competition has our whole community; it's not state. We'll bring this here. And the urgent question is, how can I treat artistic teachings in this way in this country? Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u169	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. The Galician People's Group has the floor to Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u170	Thank you, President. Good morning. I also greet students at the Conservatory. Mr. Álvarez, this non-law proposal has touched on the paperboard. So paper, that you begin your intervention already justifying that this proposal brings to this plenary not of law: non-small excuse, manifest accusation. And then he had to fill the ten minutes by reporting up to the price of the instruments. Of course! Chicle doesn't give that much, Mr. Álvarez. No one doubts the importance of having a superior conservatory in a city like Vigo, no one!, because of what it represents for the musical formation not only of the town of his bishop, but of all Galicia. But today Mr. Álvarez wanted to make here a political opportunist and even a trileiro, trying to confuse with budget credits. Your explanatory statement, Mr. Álvarez, is a cut-off of another non-law proposal that we have already discussed in Commission 4a. And we've already explained that you're part of a false premise and thus come to wrong conclusions. And the followers of the opposition groups, who do the same thing as you. You know perfectly well — because, in addition, it is from the branch — that the appropriations under Programme 422E are, in 98%, for staff; that is, Chapter I. And you know that Chapter I says that, although above, 97% cannot change to other applications. You know that and you manipulate numbers and people! Or try to manipulate. [[Applause]] And he also knows that this chapter has over 86% every reference year; a level of execution that he wants other departments and other public administrations. [[Applause]] But you keep trying to make political opportunism and renounce this very question in the last plenary because you were afraid that the advisor would tell you everything that is already being done in the Vigo Conservatory before, in the middle and afterwards. Because before 2014 it acted and then also, as I'll tell you later. And third, and most importantly: you continue to be a political opportunist, because you have forgotten the Vigo Conservatory in the amendments, Mr. Álvarez. You record this non-law proposal on November 6, and the deadline for the amendments ends on day 16; but in the amendments, which are all related to the construction, you forget the Vigo Conservatory. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They won't care so much, I say. Also, according to your own statement in the 4th Commission last week, you don't question the Galician Council's Infrastructure Plan. So, we just think they got a bright signal to debate this non-law proposal today. And you, as a good gentleman you are, exercise. And Junta also exercises, Mr. Álvarez, and will continue to exercise her powers so that the Vigo High Conservatory will develop its activities in the best conditions. The Council knows what's going on in the Vigo Conservatory, and it's acting and looking for possible solutions to the identified deficiencies. But we must remember, as Mrs. Rodil said, that it is a building of more than fifty years old, which, by the way, bought a former companion of his ranks, Mr. Manuel Soto. He bought it to a family; it was a single-family house that had to be adapted and had to undergo successive reforms in order to be accommodated to the teaching services. These successive reforms were carried out in 1992 and 1993, in 2003, in 2008, in 2009, in 2010, in 2014... But in 2015, in 2016, in 2017 and in 2018 there was such aberration that works had to be done in 2015 in the library, which was the old pool of the house. So they don't try to manipulate with something as important as the musical formation of the city, in Vigo and Galicia. They don't try to manipulate people. The complex architectural configuration of the building — as I said —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u171	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u172	...and the successive reforms — starting with the adaptation of the housing to the new teaching use, as I explained earlier — make it difficult to identify quickly and easily the source of problems and humidity. At this point, the Technical Unit of the Council is conducting a detailed study of the entrances of water into the building, in the same way that three technical visits have already been carried out during 2019. For what? To proceed with, first, the design of the project that must be done and then perform the works. Mr. Álvarez, I understand that today you have to bring this non-law proposal here, but it is clear that the commitment of the Galician Union is evident. It's a commitment that knows the management team, who knows the teacher and who knows the student. So we're not going to accept your proposal, not law. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio. Mr. Álvarez Martínez speaks for the author group of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u174	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the support of this opposition group initiative, Mrs. Vázquez Verao, Mrs. Rodil and Mrs. Acuña, who have made some singularities of this centre manifest to which I obviously did not have time because the chicle gave me so much. It should be a cheap little chicle, from the same level as you have reduced the importance of artistic teachings — in particular the superiors — in the autonomous community: little ones. [[Laughter]] Mrs. Antonio, you did it. Firstly, with this dynamic of qualifying political trillery any opposition initiative to make politics in the Galician Parliament. Why are we here? To make politics, of course! We are the Galician Parliament and therefore the initiatives we have brought here are all of a political nature. And you tell me about a false premise in the distribution of budgets. Mrs. Antonio, when certain amounts are recorded in the budgets within this program and they are not spent, what is the problem? What was wrong with them? That conservatories have enough teachers and that therefore they don't need any more? Because if you tell me that 98% is for staff... it seems to be overpowered; overpowered because in the end it will be worth 15 million euros in three years. And 15 million euros are a lot of teachers and teachers. That's enough! And you know that. You tell me about the price of the instruments. How come you don't talk, when you referred to Mrs. Cuña that in the pianos there's mofo? Do you know that mofo is a plant species that is characterized not precisely by proliferating in dry environments? So, some moisture problem will be in the conservatory. I say! I don't know! Maybe it's an autochthonous variety of Vigo that turns out to be reproduced in extreme drought conditions. [[Laughter]] Maybe that's it! [[Murmurs.]] And look -- I've said it many times in Commission 4th, and I think I speak for all opposition groups too -- no one has ever questioned the Education Infrastructure Plan. You'd love to have us question that plan, but we never did; and how often you repeat it with bluntness and perseverance worthy of all commendation that if we do, the reality is that we don't. We don't do it because what we want is to include other centers, and you're systematically refusing to include them. And I'll tell you something:
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u175	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u176	...if, after so much reform—years 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019—the Conservatory follows these conditions, perhaps they had to start thinking about changing from dawn. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u177	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. We're still on the agenda. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament and the actions to be carried out in connection with the drama of emigration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u178	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Left Joint Group and the Galician Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u179	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u180	Good morning. I want to greet the people, the representatives of Via Galicia who accompany us from the rostrum. This non-law proposal that we brought here today was transferred by them, by Via Galaga, which is a social platform in defense of Galician national rights, formed by around sixty entities of different types and issues — of union, cultural, environmentalist, education, social centers, the student field and popular music, of historical memory...—that is, a wide fan of the association and organisational fabric of our country. And the representatives and representatives of this platform presented to the Register of this Parliament this initiative which we now bring to debate and asked the parliamentary groups to bring it here. It is an initiative that has also been taken to the councils and deputies of Galicia and is being debated in the same way; an initiative that aims to focus on the drama of emigration, which aims to raise awareness, make and denounce the drama of emigration and urge action. It's evidence that emigration has been a drama for Galicia for decades. And this initiative that moves us Via Galicia begins with a poem by Rosalía de Castro, the poem "Pra a Habana!""This one's gone and that one's gone and everyone's gone. - Galicia, no men left to work for you." Because at that time in the middle of the 19th century emigration was already a drama, and Rosalía de Castro denounced it in this poem included in Cantares Gallegos. At that time, in the middle of the 19th century, the population of Galicia represented 11.5% of the population of the state, with a population density of twice as much as the average of the state; it was therefore a country with an important population. At the beginning of the 20th century, the percentage had fallen to almost one point, had fallen to 10.64%. And fifty years later, in 1950, it represented 9.26%. And we're here today, we're coming to 2018, that is, at the end of 2018, where we're only 5.74%, and for the first time the average density is below the state average; so I think we're talking about drama perfectly illustrates this of what we're talking about. And the demographic problem with all the intensity of Galicia cannot be summed up with a birth problem. Christmas is just a symptom of the situation of economic deterioration, of the dismantling of our productive base, of not making a bet on gender equality as a backbone of economic and social policy, of the absence of employment, of the absence of decent employment, of loss of rights, of loss of quality of life, of life expectancy, of the impossibility of emancipating new people. And that's why all these reasons are what they do is to expel thousands of Greeks and Greeks to emigration. It's a drama, that of emigration, which unfortunately does not conjugate in past time, but rather conjugates in present time. And if we don't fix it, it will also conjugate in future time. And that's what this is about, that we have to stop conjugating the drama of emigration. The data is more than eloquent. Over the last ten years, more than 200,000 people aged 16 to 54 have emigrated from Galicia; hence, at productive age, at the age of producing for themselves but also for the country. And since 2009 there has been almost a constant figure of around 30,000 people a year. That is, we have a tendency that every year they pick up their suitcases and leave Galicia the equivalent to municipalities like Ames; and the following year, to a municipality like Artex; and the following year to a municipality like Carballo's; and the next year like Culleredo, or Ribeira, or Cangas, or Marín or Vilagaría. That's the graphic picture we're talking about. Each year it's as if all the people in each of these municipalities had taken the suitcase and left Galicia. And after these ten years because we have virtually to be the population of a municipality like Vigo or like La Coruña - the most populous municipalities in our country - that would be the total of that calculation. It's like a graph. And in the period 2001-2011, while the population in Greece increased by 2.86 % to 14.61 %. But over the next six years, from 2011 to 2017, the population of Greece had a total decrease of 3.12%, while the Spanish average had an increase of 1.31%. I think the data — I still say — are eloquent. And of those over 200,000 people, 80,000 are boys and girls between the ages of 16 and 29 looking for opportunities they don't have in our country; girls and boys of working age, developing their life projects and having children in Galicia, who, if they can't do it in Galicia, will do it outside. They're boys and girls with knowledge where we invest resources, where we invest in their formation. And that doesn't go back to Galicia. On the contrary, the center of the system absorbs all that human capital, absorbs all that knowledge, for its benefit, and not for the benefit of the country that came to be born to them, which formed them, and in which it does not reverse all that potential. It's forced emigration, by necessity, not by desire for adventure or to know the world. Because we're falling into that temptation lately, and it seems like our young girls are going out like an adventure, getting to know the world, getting richer, taking away all that tremendous disaster that means they have to leave because here they don't have the opportunities they're looking for, and forced by a job situation that shows a devastating picture of the labor situation of youth in Galicia. All the jobs that have been lost in the last ten years have been among those under 35, where the average annual wage has also fallen. If the incomes fell generally into the working class set, the ones that came down most were those of youth. Workers and workers under 18 years of age — almost 50% — have been severely reduced, but their income has been further reduced, with a drop of 69.1% — EUR 1,347 less per year in recent years. I insist, a real drama. Between 18 and 35 years of age, employed employment fell by 30%, and in the case of workers between 26 and 35, the average wage decrease was 7.3%. Precautionaryness, the lack of expectations, keeps emigration as the only alternative that young people in Greece can find in order not to have to access jobs for days or weeks, with low wages and only rights, which do not allow them to survive much less. Young people and girls are the biggest asset in a country, I think there's no doubt in that. But when these assets go away, not only is the future of that country at stake but the present of that country is at stake. Because the drama of emigration endangers the future, but also the present. We're talking about an individual drama of each of the people who have to leave, but also a collective drama for Galicia. And it's obvious that the output is complex, that there are no magic recipes and that there is no single solution, but the first thing is to assume the gravity of the situation. And that is what this initiative is about. That's what the campaign that Via Galega is trying to do: to focus on it, to put it on the agenda, the situation of emigration; that you don't understand and that you don't continue to see it as something that happens, that's there, that's always, like anyone who sees it rain, but you have to be aware of the gravity of the situation and carry out policies that affect the causes. Because the emigration that Galicia suffers is not the fruit of a divine design, it is not inevitable, it is not a genetic tare that we have the Greeks and the Greeks, that happens to us, in the face of the problems, not to fight in the country and to leave; it is the consequence of years of policies designed and executed from keys to our interests and for the benefit of those who represent those interests, that we do not have a self-centered economy and lack of political power to deal with our economic dependence. And, of course, we believe that Galicia deserves a lot more and that it has to look at the future.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u181	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u182	We firmly believe that another Galicia is possible if we begin to believe in our possibilities, in all the potential and wealth of our nation. That is why it is possible to do so, and that is why we have made this initiative which Via Galga presented to us, which the first thing we demand is that this Parliament consider emigration as a social and national drama, and to conceive this problem as a national emergency. And then to constitute within this Parliament in the first trimester of the year 2020...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u183	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u184	...a commission, named President, to study the subject of immigration from Greece with the aim that within a maximum of five months they study and propose the necessary political measures; a commission to which all of those people who have something to say, all those people who have analyzed what is going on and all those people who have proposals to put on the table and solve this drama. Waiting for the favourable vote of the groups represented here in Parliament, for now and many thanks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u185	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. On the part of the Left Joint Group, Mrs Chao Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u186	Thank you, President. Go ahead, the Left Joint Group will support this non-law proposal. And we are going to support it — as we have already expressed to the representatives of Via Galaga — since it coincides with the concern, again and again reiterated by this parliamentary group, about the population that has lost Galicia since the beginning of the economic crisis. It must be remembered that not so long ago, before the start of the crisis, Galicia was an interesting destination for people who were looking for their future. We'll leave behind that part of the black story of expelling the population to be a territory that clearly received the population. But since 2008 the trend has reversed. Only in the last decade did 297,971 people leave Galicia, almost 300,000 people who were forced to leave to look for the future elsewhere. Of them, the 160,584 people who were under 35 are particularly concerned, a drama for a society. We are talking — as mentioned earlier — about 300,000 stories of emigration, separation of friendships, families separated by thousands of kilometers, seizures replaced by Skype calls; migratory exits that aggravate the demographic situation of this country in continued loss in recent years. And if -- listen well -- we're talking about migratory exits, data from the Galego Institute of Statistics that cannot be discussed, as is usually done in this House. Did Galicia continue to receive people these years? Yes, but it can't be denied that nearly 300,000 people have come out of this country, almost 300,000 people, and, if they don't take action, the population drop will only make it worse, accelerate, leaving a country behind them every day older and smaller, which is urgent to remedy. Of course, these figures cannot be isolated from the socio-economic situation in which they occurred. The rates of general unemployment — and especially those of youth unemployment — have reached historical figures, and they have placed us at the head of Europe in this area, while precariousness was extended as a rule as the only alternative to the lack of employment thanks to labour reforms. This was the reality that made thousands of girls and boys take their bags to look for work outside. And so we actually come back in Rosalía's time to get back those roadways that are going on low-cost plane today. And the reality of youth in Galicia is far from the triumphal discourse of the People's Party, that of recovery. Today we still have a unemployment rate of more than 20% in youth, which does not reach 41% of the employment rate. The future for the girls and boys in this country is still worrying and uncertain, most likely when on the horizon the clouds of a coming recession are again unfolded. We've seen that we're very close to Christmas, and -- I've said it on other occasions in this House -- it's the time to get to an airport and see what the faces of this problem we're talking about -- to get to those thousands of girls and boys who have gone to work and who, saving as little as they can in their foreign jobs, come back to Galicia on these dates. They left to be able to work and found no great solutions outside. The precariousness was unfortunately there too. "We don't go, they throw us away," they've been repeating many years since they left. Since Rosalía had written it, the decision to leave is not easy, it has nothing to do with that insulting speech that we've heard here sometimes, which has passed from the usual negationism in the first part -- to say that it wasn't true, that people didn't go away -- to say that, well, it's the adventurous spirit and that it's individual decisions. Then they voted against, the People's Party voted against, every time this group has brought initiatives in this matter to this House. And then, by chance, one day we woke up with the fantastic announcement of the Plan returns 2020. If there isn't the problem, of being an individual decision, of being the adventurous spirit, of voting against our proposals, the Greek Government says: Well, yes, something happens, we're going to make a plan back here and invest a few million euros to bring back the people who had to leave. Well, there is a Plan that returns 2020 from what we still know today only the executive summary, these news reports that usually distract us, like yesterday's one, in which we were talking about this issue and the press was picking up this issue. That's why we're asking for a point of addition to the non-law proposal where we're requesting the immediate publication of the Plan to return 2020 with a broken economic memory. It is not serious that only one document, an executive summary, was presented as follows, as listed, on the website of the General Secretariat of Emigration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u187	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u188	And secondly, we call for the inclusion of a basic assessment, the presentation, before the end of the first quarter of 2020, of a report on the results of the Strategy returns 2020, which includes at least the number of applicants per year, concessions and causes of denials, the counts of aid granted and the type of aid granted; a basic photograph that allows us to see whether or not we are acting on the proposed measures. For our own sake, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u189	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. On behalf of the Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Rodríguez Dacosta has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u190	Thank you, President. A greeting by the Socialist Group to the representatives of Via Galega. Well, the ESC points out that the continued decline in the population in Galicia in recent years has caused Galicia to lose nothing more and nothing less than 85,294 people, in the face of the 1.8% increase in the rest of the Spanish state. Based on data from the city's own population pattern, the peak population peak in Galicia in the last 20 years was registered in 2010. We were 2,797,653 people, men and women. From 2010 onwards, a continued loss of population began to reach 2,701,743 in 2018; that is, we lost, between 2010 and 2018, 95,000 inhabitants on our land. In particular, the juvenile population, in the third quarter of 2019, of the 317,600 young people and girls we have in Galicia between 16 and 29 years old, the figures are clear: 40.60% taken up, 10.30% stopped and 40.10% inactive. They're alarming figures. The youth unemployment rate is 20.3 % in this quarter, and increases by 0.7 % in relation to the previous quarter. And those busy again insist, from the Socialist Group, that 25.9 per cent works in part-time, in unwanted days. Well, this goes hand in hand with the serious migration crisis that Galicia suffered between 2009 and today, the result of the policies of austerity of the People's Party and the President, Mr Feijóo. In particular, more than 200,000 people between the ages of 17 and 50 emigrated from Galicia. According to INE data, between 1 January 2008 and the first day of the year 2018 the number of young people between 20 and 39 years of age who emigrated from one of the 313 municipalities we have in our community achieves nothing more and nothing less than 50,000 — young people and girls, said, between 19 and 39 years of age. We're living in Galicia with a migration drama of young people, and you, the Government of Galician Union, do nothing to avoid it, they give you no answer. And it is known that these young men who left in the last ten years have no prospect of coming back in the short term, because many of them — as it shows a survey that made La Voz de Galicia to 500 young people who left Galicia — have no prospect of coming back, and not because they do not want, but because the prospects of work in Galicia are of much lower instability and wages than in the European Union. And, of course, there is no adoption in Galicia — and this group has reiterated in many speeches in this Parliament — the necessary measures for family and labour reconciliation. All this generates an overview for engineers, architects, etc., so, even if they want to go back to this country, they can't go back because of these circumstances. We must also think about all the talent we are losing, all the expenditure on education and what is being invested in this country — and we support that public teaching. And then there comes a moment when we let these newly formed people leave here in Galicia. I think we'd have to fall in shame. [[Applause]] Well, for all that, of course, it's essential to establish a return plan. As my partner said earlier, we don't know what they're doing. We believe that they should create, dynamize, a community of migrants who want to return, focusing on those newly formed women and men who had to pack, those who gave them the People's Party in the face of the crisis, in order to recover their talent in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u191	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u192	And, of course, Montse demands, the proponent of the motion, that study that is asking this collective to whom we admire. Well, in this sense, we tabled an amendment, both for addition and for amendment, which we hope will be accepted. Otherwise, we shall request the vote on the first subparagraph of the third subparagraph. Thank you very much, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u193	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta. The Joint Group has the floor Mr. Villares Naveira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u194	Good morning, gentlemen. Also from En Marea we want to start by greeting the people who are present with us today. At Marea he committed himself to them — at the meeting we held here in Parliament — to a number of things. First of all, to support the proposal, which we thought was interesting and, in addition to interesting, absolutely necessary. In addition, we commit ourselves to a joint record and to the impulse of a joint study commission in accordance with Article 51 of the Rules of Procedure, a little in the confidence that this was the spirit, to make a joint record and a joint treatment by the various parliamentary groups. We see that in the end there was a group that makes the proposal and we respect this. We support it, even though we think it would be stronger if the groups as a whole presented it and discussed it in this House. As for the background, we have already said at the moment that we fully share the objectives of the proposal in its exhibition and also in the explanatory statement. We believe, moreover, that it has been lost, at the end of the thirty years, by those present at the moment and has shown most of the autonomy of the parliamentary majority, a spirit which at the time constituting autonomy has been reflected in Article 4 of the Autonomy Statute. As you know, the Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia is a statute which contains hardly any recognition of rights to the whole of citizenship other than those recognized in the Spanish Constitution, but nevertheless it saves in Article 4 when, in the third paragraph, it says that the public authorities of the Autonomous Community assume as one of the guiding principles of their social and economic policy the right of the Greeks to live and work on their own land. For us only the addition of this article would legitimize and force us morally and politically to act in particular in the first paragraph of the exhibition. That is to say, a strategic and cross-sectional orientation of all public policies so that we will end up with this shameful situation which, as you report, was already referred to by Rosalía 167 years ago — with some particularities or differences that I will now comment on —. The explanatory statement makes a very interesting reference, and has already been emphasized here by the rest of the actors, in relation to the people and the profile of the people who are forced to emigrate. I say "thank you" because we also share the idea, and we live well closely some and some, that young people don't leave because they want to, but they're expelled economically and socially because of lack of opportunities for work on their own land. And it's fake about what the profile of immigrants and migrants is: young people, people -- and we're also talking about economics, we're talking about society -- at a productive age and at a reproductive age. They leave in the face of the impossibility that they have to have the slightest certainty, the least security of the future in their own land; something that is also different from what happened in Rosalía's time and something that can be demanded from them and should be demanded from those who have the responsibilities of government. Therefore, this House is the right time to do so. Start this, in addition, with another idea. Usually in this House the People's Party ends up making us the numerical cabal that there's a kind of neutrality in the migration balance: they left but they came and so on... No, it's very good to pretend that the people who march are the new people, the people who are old at work, the people who are old at reproduction. And, therefore, that comes into play with another idea which is always sheltered by the People's Party and which then formulates as a completely disconnected problem of all other situations, which is the demographic issue. They say there's a demographic gap, there's a problem... No, it's not a problem, it's a symptom. The problem is different. As long as we don't assume that demographic decline, the demographic implosion of the country -- as we call it -- is nothing more than a symptom of a different disease, we're not going to make any progress. Precisely the description of this reality as this initiative rightly does, it reveals to us an anomaly in the population pyramid of our country. Throughout Europe, the population pyramid is weaker at the base than at the top, as in the form of champagne. However, in the case of Greek it has a better form of mushroom, a very thin stem and a very wide glass. This also reveals implosion in the literal sense of incapacity for generational change to sustain the country as such. He also speaks correctly about the initiative of the absence of ambitious policies. I want to insist on this because, unlike what happened in the days of Rosalía, where Spain was rebuked that it completely forgot Galicia when it was, alas, so beautiful, in this case we do have the one to ask for accounts. That today, for example, I am forbidden to explain the mathematics in Greek is not something we can blame on Madrid, nor is it the closure of the parish of the hospital in Verín, but these are decisions that are made here because at the moment most parliamentary elections are held.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u195	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u196	So this initiative is particularly positive because it does not infantilize self-government, it does not relieve the responsibility of those with responsibility, who are sitting in this House and who, therefore, are those who must demand a correction of their policies. We think we're living in a triple emergency -- feminist emergency, social emergency and environmental emergency -- and that this causes, as a symptom, the demographic emergency. It must therefore be fought at a cross-level level. And, of course, we will not be supporting the initiative and also how many initiatives come from our own amendments to reverse the situation of emigration in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u197	Thank you, Mr. Villares. The Galician People's Group has the floor to Mrs Arias Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u198	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. First of all, I want to greet the people who accompany us in the gallery. Look, there are two total coincidences with you: first, that Galicia has a demographic challenge to face, just like Spain, like most of Europe; and second, that migration plays a fundamental role in coping with it. From there, look, using incorrect or partial data for your arguments the only thing that leads to them is wrong conclusions and, above all, losing all credibility. Because using its own source, the Galego Institute of Statistics, and the same period, 2007-2017, it turns out that more than 45,031 people have come to Galicia. And look, using the age groups you were referring to, 16 to 54 years came 16,228 more than you went, and 16 to 34 came 9,848 more than you went. But if we look only at the last year of what there is data, in 2018, 13,000 people have come to Galicia more than they have left. And if we refer to the returnees, to those Greeks who were outside and who came back, it must be said that in the last ten years, the number of returnees has increased by 107%, only in 2018, have returned 7,000 Greeks who were abroad. And the number of returnees has grown over the last five years. Look, last century was the century of emigration. But we want this to be the century of return, and we're going to work for this to be the century of return. That's why in the Demography Act, after the work on paper -- because there was already a presentation in which all groups and specialists were involved -- after that work on paper, the returnees were included as a preference group in carrying out training, employment, housing and also conciliation policies, along with the young people and families. But, in addition, the government of Feijóo, the government of the Union, is starting the Strategy back in 2020. I'm glad Mrs Chao recognises here, indeed, that there is this strategy. Because from the PSOE Mrs. Rodríguez seems to be obvious. Of course, maybe she was referring to the State Government. Because, look, for the return to Galicia there are 235 million euros, more than 200 cross-sectional measures to attract 20,000 Greeks aged 45. In the state, the government of Sánchez drew—it only drew, because it did not apply anything— EUR 23 million against 235 Galicia; 235 with measures that are already in progress and that already bear fruit. In the last three years, 18,000 Greeks returned to Galicia from those who were abroad, 200 of these projects returned were funded with help from the United States and 800 Greeks and Greeks will be able to do master's studies, and also in FP, returning from abroad to Galicia. They're studies so they can stay here and carry their lives here. Of course, once again, the State Government is setting them up. Here, it's none of the competence of the Union. about two months for validations; in the government of the state, two years, two years or more! to validate. You speak of conciliation, and you are funny, Mrs. Rodríguez, that you are speaking of conciliation. A little red could be put, because to speak of conciliation in the community which is pioneering in the state — known by all — as regards conciliation measures and as to the conciliation measures in rural areas it refers to, man!, it is to get a little colored. You forget the bet of the conciliatory bond, the good care, the freeness of the children's schools for the second child. We're waiting for what the state says for all children. For now, the only community for the second son is Galicia. There are children's schools in business parks, children's schools in all the municipalities of Galicia — and in rural areas they are free of charge, in addition. There's twice as many squares in kindergartens as we had in 2009. And with regard to employment, I'll just say that three out of four contracts are indefinite in Galicia, and nine out of ten are full-time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u199	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u200	Finally, it is fortunate that those who are responsible for 61,000 industrial jobs are in danger in Galicia and those who are always against all industries and who are going to support, without any doubt, those who are making Galicia lose 60,000 industrial jobs, and the sum follows. Anyway, Madam President, I think it would take ten more minutes, but I understand you won't give us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u201	It's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u202	...to explain the measures required here and which Galicia is already doing. But what if I'm going to tell you is one thing. We're not going to fall into an old speech, no. The borders and walls have fallen and we are in a globalized world.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u203	Thank you, Mrs Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u204	Let's keep that, but we'll keep fighting, too. We will put forth all our efforts to continue with the measures that are already bearing fruit and so that all that Greek or Greek who wants to live in Galicia can do it, and also with a good quality of life. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u205	Thank you, Mrs Arias. Mr Prado Cores has the floor on the author group of the non-law proposal and to rule on the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u206	First of all, I would like to thank, on behalf of Via Galaga — who in the end and after all are the owners of the proposal — for the support expressed by the opposition groups. And we accept the amendments, except for the first of the Socialist Party, so we will allow their vote by points. The MP of the People's Party says this is the century of the return. They also want, they say in their official speech, this is the best place to be born, but they close the neighborhood of Verín. And on the bench here, on the left, they were so shocked that they were listening to what I'm told is that at this rate they're going to have to open the parlor again because they're going to be born kids at a standstill. [[Applause]] Of course, it's the best place to be born, but it's the best place to be a child, but with the most scarce conciliation resources; the best place to be older, but there are no residences and we have the second lowest pensions in the state, only behind Extreme. [[Applause]] But, of course, they have a lot of projects going on. I'm asking you, please, if the results of your projects are these, don't put any more in motion, don't keep moving on with your projects, because the result is what we're seeing. And, look, they have a lot of proposals, but the People's Party proposals are like the monster of Lake Ness, everybody heard about them but nobody saw them. The monster of Lake Ness all heard of it but no one saw it, absolutely no one saw it. And again, the People's Party plays distractions. This initiative is being debated in municipalities throughout the country, and the People's Party voted in favour of Coiros, in Guarda, in Cee, in Catóira, in Moaña, or abstained here in Santiago, in Teo, in Corcubión or and Rianxo. Just like you're doing with the theme of the neighborhood of Verín, which on the one hand seems to have one part of the PP close to the territory that wants to be well and another, which is the one that makes the decisions, which obviously is from the back totally turned to the situation of the country. Look, when the wise man marks the moon, the fool looks at his finger. And that's what the People's Party is doing. In the face of a problem of magnitude which would require action in accordance with that magnitude, what is required is precisely to create a study committee in which we place this situation at the heart of the debate. Because, look, the Galego Qualifications Institute, a member of the Labour Council, in the last recruitment report says that for every university person under the age of 30 who arrived at Galicia attracted by some employment contract, two others left, two others left. And, on the other hand, if they got to work in Galicia 7,585 licensed people between 2008 and 2016, they left 15,026, that is, they march twice as many prepared people as they arrive. This is the real drama.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u207	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u208	Just like, in that migration balance that says it's favorable, you know perfectly well that people are coming back, returning to Galicia, because of conditions of instability in their countries of origin, not attracted by a favourable economic situation in Galicia that makes people coming here to work and raise the country. They know that's not the situation. And they know that a very important part of those who come have to do with it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u209	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u210	And, of course, a worrying part -- and I finish, president -- is that, if the emigration of the past, both those who emigrated and their surroundings and families, they had in their idea the theme of return, always the return, today is not happening. Today, many of the young people who leave develop their life project there with the idea of not coming back.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u211	You have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u212	Because, look, about the migration data, the drama is that, for example, in 2016 7,000 they did for the first time, but 21,000 are people who emigrated, they went back to Galicia wondering if they had any opportunities and, if they didn't, they left again; with which their return will be much more complicated.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u213	Thank you, Prado lady.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u214	And the same thing happened in 2017, when 22,700 were second emigrations. Therefore, I, of course, deeply regret that the People's Party does what best it knows how to do, which is to take Galicia to (...). [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u215	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Marta Nóvoa Churches and 13 other Members, on the demand by the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the call for new renewable energies for the increase of the wind power installed in Galicia, as well as the production of this type of energy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u216	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Joint Left Group, the Galician Nationalist Block, the Joint Group and the Galician Socialist Group. [[(G.P. of the Left Joint Group, at the initiative of Mr Sánchez García, in accordance with Rule 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure, submits the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal, Doc. # 58957. (10/PNP-004382).Replacement amendment.The text of the resolution must be replaced by the following: To develop a new wind sector plan of Galicia under the following premises:a. A social participation procedure will be opened for the development of the plan. For a period of not less than six months, the Galician Union will establish forms of open consultation with associations and eco-logical, cultural, social, city council owners, etc., to obtain proposals leading to the elaboration of a draft plan.b. Once the draft is drawn up, a new deadline will be opened, not less than six months, so that all the groups consulted and citizenship in general may submit allegations.The wind sector plan of Galicia will be developed on the basis of the following principles:i. To achieve a model that is respectful of the conservation of landscape and heritage environmental values and that seeks the maximum social return of the exploitation of resources, giving priority to public and cooperative exploitation projects.ii. Promote distributed generation and self-consumption by avoiding large parks in places that pose serious environmental and landscape impacts. Support, with public funding and advice, that cooperative initiatives to produce local population, mountain communities and other Community formulas are the protagonists.iii. In the new private and non-self-consumption projects, give priority to those who contemplate and facilitate the public participation of Inega in the capital of the new parks.iv. To establish new tax and extra-tax measures to facilitate the social return of the benefits produced by the activity by modifying the wind canon and the Environmental Compensation Fund.v. Expansion of the area currently declared as Natura Network.vi. Landscape exclusion zones determined in the landscape guidelines and landscape catalogues2. While Galicia's sectoral wind plan is not approved it will be established within two months:a. Environmental exclusion zones in those places likely to be part of the proposed expansion of the Nature Network necessary to bring the percentage of the surface with this rating to the European average.The responsible for the proposal of this wind park exclusion zone will be the Directorate-General for Environmental Quality and Climate Change, and will be approved in Parliament of Galicia.b. Landscape exclusion zones. In anticipation of the adoption of the Landscape Guidelines, the Institute for the Studies of the Territory will make a proposal for zones of exclusion for landscape reasons within two months, which must be approved in the Parliament of Galicia.c. That, as long as the Galician sectoral wind plan is not amended, the current development areas are considered, except the exclusion areas proposed in point two)]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u217	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Novoa Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u218	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Today the People's Group brings an important and most topical initiative, as these days are celebrating the World Climate Summit in Madrid. As you will know, the energy sector is one of the main responsible for greenhouse gas emissions and that will, in addition, be strongly affected by climate change throughout its value chain, from generation and transport or distribution of energy to its own demand. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the report on the Spanish electric system of 2018 published by the Electric Network, Galicia is the second largest community with power and electricity production from renewable sources, 14.9 % of power and 17.5 % of electricity production from Spain's total, only behind Castela-León. In fact, 66% of the electricity installed in Galicia is already renewable, far above the average in Spain, which is around 38.4%. And, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to give you some data on renewable power in other European countries, of what you usually talk about in this Parliament. Galicia is far above the renewable power of States such as France, which has 19.8%; Germany, with 35.6%; Italy, with 39.3%; or Portugal, with 51%. In fact, in the European Union the only ones that go beyond us are Denmark, with 68.4%, and Croatia, with 73.6%. Thus, renewable production in 2018 is equivalent to 86% of electricity consumption in Galicia, four times as much as Catalonia, which has 19%, or twice as much as Asturias, which is 44%. But most importantly, Galicia has already achieved the target of renewable consumption over the total energy set by the European Union by 2030, which is 35%. Galicia is 86%. Now, ladies and gentlemen, you are building about twenty wind farms in the community, with an investment of about 570 megawatts and a programmed power of 480, which will allow Galicia to achieve the 4,000 megawatts of wind energy installed at the end of this year. And Greenalia has just completed the construction of her biomass plant in Curtis, Spain's second largest with 50 megawatts. It's in the test phase, with the goal of starting in 2020. With this, ladies and gentlemen, it is shown that the Government of the United States has done its duties, it is wrong that they care about all of you. We are aware that Galicia has an important opportunity at stake for renewable energies, and especially for wind energy, because it is playing a prominent role in creating wealth and employment in our community. That is why the Business Implementation Act was set up two years ago, an opportunity to advance the development of projects linked to renewable energies — and in particular to wind—; a law that offers more agile regulation, with more transparency and security, without losing the maximum urban, technical and environmental guarantees, lordships; a law that did not count on the support of the Socialist Group in the Galician Parliament, even though the Socialist Government of Aragon had also adopted a similar agreement in 2017 to set the criteria for self-interest investments in renewable energy, a declaration with which the deadlines of the treaties are reduced to half. That's your political coherence, gentlemen of the Socialist Party. What we need and now expect from the Government of Spain, Mr. Pedro Sánchez, is that he assumes his responsibility and does not put himself on a profile, as we must remember that the competences in the energy system and renewables are state-owned. And the best way to boost renewable energy in Galicia and the whole of Spain is to develop new boosts of renewable energy, as you've been asked by the Galician Union and as you are claiming by the sector itself. Ladies and gentlemen, last week, in the Permanent Parliament of Congress, a royal decree on 17/2019 was passed in extremities to maintain some remuneration for renewable energies, and to put on an absurd patch and definitely assume the closure of the thermal power plants. Mrs. Ribera mentioned in her speech at Congress, in the motivation of the urgency of this royal decree, to the necessary response to the certainty, the confidence of investors and stability for industry, anything contrary to what their extremist policies of energy transition have so far done. It's a necessary royal decree, but no more necessary or more important than the statute of the electro-intensive industry, so we've been waiting for more than a year. Meanwhile, the jobs of over 2,000 Alcoa workers are at grave risk, and they have a motivation for their approval similar to that which Mrs. Ribera gave last week to bring forward this royal decree. Ladies and gentlemen, the energy model of the People's Party is about to boost an efficient, economically efficient energy, which does not damage the pocket of citizenship and provides security of supply, for which the thermal power plants and the electro-intensive industry are key, by facilitating their disconnection of the electrical system. Ladies and gentlemen, we advocate a fair and orderly energy transition, which does not leave the hundreds of Greeks and Greeks whose jobs are in danger of the early closure of the thermal power stations and without having crafted new alternatives. And we don't comply with EUR 7 million alms for all the districts where the power stations are shut down, the Socialist Party gentlemen. I insist, an energy transition which, of course, guarantees employment and economic activity where energy is part of its economic process. [[Applause]] Well, in this real decree on renewables adopted last week, neither did the posas or their calendar be included, so that this group decides to bring this initiative, because we believe they are necessary. Socialist gentlemen, you are always on the verge of the extreme introduction of renewable energies in Spain. They were introduced in an extreme way when they were five times more expensive than they are today. They have injected a deficit of 29 billion euros into the electrical system, which directly, ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, we are all paying on our electric bill and that we still have many years to pay. And yes, sadly, they created a bubble of renewables, even recognized by their minister, Mr. Zapatero's minister, Mr. Sebastián. And as a result, it was you who lifted the light to all citizens, to all Spaniards, in 70%. We've just had a reasonable bill of electricity to have one of Europe's most expensive power bills. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u219	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u220	What the People's Party had to do in Madrid when it arrived...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u221	Mrs. Novoa is talking. Please, shut up!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u222	I repeat. What the People's Party had to do in Madrid in 2013 was put a reasonable wage for the entire generation of renewable energy. The regulated part of the invoice was frozen and there was no longer any tariff deficit in the years 2016 and 2017. In the year and a half that you have been ruling, ladies and gentlemen, we again have EUR 400 million in tariff deficit. That's what they've been getting since they've been in government. Look, what the Popular Party also did was to convene renewable energy auctions in 2016 and 2017: 8,700 megawatts free of premiums, at no cost to any Spanish citizen. And that's why today Mr. Sánchez can boast at the top of Spain's renewable energy climate. Yes, ladies, no cost and no premiums! Yes, ladies! [[Murmurs.]] [[Strong murmurers.]] Madam President, I'd like to ask you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u223	Yeah, he's right. All sides are making noise. So, please continue, Mrs. Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u224	These megawatts driven by the People's Party will be available from 2020. And, of course, that thanks to that Spain will fulfill, of course, the goal of primary generation renewable by 20%. This is what the People's Party has done, stop the waste, freeze the regulated portion of the bill and eliminate the tariff deficit since 2016. As I said before, Galicia is a leading community in Spain in the production of renewable energy, far above the Spanish average. And this reality predicts that it will increase in the future. That's why the Galician Union approved the Welsh Strategy for Climate Change and Energy 2020. It's one of the first communities to count on this initiative. It also shows the commitment of the Galician Union to increase budgets by 2020, where more than 60 million euros are allocated to achieve a greener Galicia. Special emphasis is placed on 27% growth in the Inega funds. Inega's budget rises by 27% to dew 29 million euros. It's 6.2 million more. In the 2020 budget, ladies and gentlemen, EUR 32 million will be allocated to energy saving and efficiency projects. Because they'll agree with me that the most efficient and cheaper energy is that it's not consumed. This budget will, of course, be geared towards reducing the energy bill of the industries but also of the families, with aids such as the Renewal Plan of household appliances, aid for domotics or the use of renewable energies by citizens. It is an important budgetary effort, ladies and gentlemen, which is also complemented by a bonus of up to 1,500 euros in the IRPF for all who improve their energy efficiency in their homes. Each individual may deduct up to 15% of the amount invested, with a limit of EUR 9,000.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u225	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u226	It's an important measure that you've observed in your budget appearances, no one has spoken of it. Look, the development of the renewable sector in Galicia and its prospects for the future already require new development opportunities that must be properly channeled by the Ministry of Ecological Transition, and that is why we believe that new renewable energies should be called. We believe that Mr. Sánchez's government cannot continue in a state of inaction, inaction on the problems of the electro-intensive industry, inaction on the imminent closure of the bridge thermal power plant, and inaction on not summoning in more than a year and a half a handful of renewable energy when they are due to the avalids of sustainability and the environment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u227	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u228	That is why we are bringing this initiative here today to this Parliament, a simple initiative, ladies and gentlemen, which I suppose will find you all voting in favour. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u229	Thank you very much, Mrs. Novoa. The Joint Group has the floor Mr. Casal Vidal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u230	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Well, let's put things in perspective. It's true that Galicia has a very good position in renewable installed power. In the hands of four, yes. But the truth is, listening to the data you provided to Mrs. Novoa, it would seem that we are in a sustainable oasis in Galicia, with somewhat exaggerated data. Because the reality is that in 2018 renewable production was 40%, and we reached a maximum in 2014 with 60%. But yet it's a very important volume of renewable electricity production. But what we have to talk about, to see if we're really moving forward in the process of decarbonization and transition to another kind of economy, another kind of life, is the use of total primary energy. The total primary renewable source energy in Galicia is 15%. That's the real data, so you don't think people that 85% of the energy we use in Galicia, as Mrs. Novoa said, is originally renewable. The reality is, of total energy, 15% is renewable. It's an important fact, but, of course, there's a lot left, 85% left in front of us. And besides, 85% of all the energy we consume in Galicia is imported, that's reality. So there's a lot of work ahead of you. And let's analyze other data. Obviously, in a country spread out like Galicia, energy production would have to be spread, that's obvious. But here it's done the opposite, just like it's done in the waste treatment line. In other words, it is totally incomprehensible that in a scattered country, the services of the entire citizenry scattered throughout the country are concentrated. And it bets itself for a renewable production also centralized and in the hands of four. Let's look at some data. In Galicia we only have 20 megawatts installed of self-consumption photovoltaics, 0.1% of total electricity consumed. I could say what the data is in Germany too. And that's what current technology lowers the cost of that kind of energy by 45%, with a depreciation period of between six and seven years. We only have 41 megawatts of domestic thermal solar, 16 megawatts of domestic geothermal. These are the consequences — these ridiculous amounts — of the People's Party's energy policy in Galicia. And, as I said, we agree to ask the state for more renewables. They are obviously necessary, but not the way the People's Party Government did it in 2016 and 2017, giving thousands of megawatts to pure speculators. That's the reality. What's asked is more posses to give Florentino Pérez and the lords, for example, of Forestalia. Because, as you will know, most of the megawatts granted in those posts that Mr. Rajoy directed have never developed. What did they do? Take your right and resell it to third parties. This is going to be a tariff deficit for twenty-five years! Let's see if they consider it! All the money Florentino Pérez and Forestalia used and picked up after the licenses will increase the cost of producing all those parks by 25%. You should say that too. That is why we are proposing, in the first amendment we tabled, that these poxes should be completely modified. We also plan that the Galician Union will support projects driven by mountain communities, agricultural cooperatives or directly energy, and local entities. And what is supporting? Because it's not to present the wind farms projects. And this is a job for Florentine. It was a joy. It's to present the offer and it's to present the advances. What would all these Welsh entities need? What they would need is that the Board had supported them to simply present the document for the posse and the goods they requested in order to be able to access. Let's avoid a new platoon of certain friends of the People's Party. Then we also thought that it should be borne in mind that all parks, when they come into practice -- what a strange thing! -- in Galicia, they're all less than 50 megawatts. Why? Because so one avoids state control and all control remains in the hands of the Union. Why would they do that? It'll be for something. That is why we call for more environmental and landscape protection, fair remuneration for landowners who are being expropriated by four bitches, real socio-economic resources for the areas — which are virtually unattainable — to involve local agents in all these initiatives. How many wind farms are going to develop the owners of the mountains?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u231	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u232	And how many will develop Naturgy, how many will develop Iberdrola, Endesa, all those gentlemen who embrace Mr. Feijóo?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u233	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u234	Well, that's what we're thinking is all the opposite of that people's energy policy that you come here trying to put us in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. Casal. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u236	Thank you, Mr. President. I wanted to start with a recognition of the People's Party. I don't think we should lose the perspective that it's an intellectual and cognitive advance that they assumed climate change existed after many years by denying it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u237	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u238	Despite our differences, we have to recognize that this is a step forward that was taken from Rajoy's cousin.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u239	Quiet, please! Quiet, Trenor!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u240	They're nervous. I don't know.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u241	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u242	Next week Rajoy introduces his book, they'll see if he tells them about climate change there, but let me talk.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u243	Mr. Trenor, be quiet! Quiet, quiet! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u244	Mr. Couñago, if you don't like what you have to say about the scrupulous failure in industrial and wind terms...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u245	Quiet, Mr. Paz, quiet! I'm saying silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u246	...to the People's Party there is no other remedy if your colleagues in Vox do not (...)
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u247	Silence! It's already called to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u248	And if he doesn't like to listen, turn his ears. And if you don't like to listen, go have a cup of coffee and let us talk to the others. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u249	Quiet, Mr. Vega, quiet! Don't come in any more, that's enough. Silence! [[Murmurs.]] Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u250	Nothing! I'm in no hurry, eh! We can stay here until tomorrow.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u251	Continue, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u252	Well, I suppose you'll make up for it, Mr. Calvo. Well, they've calmed down a bit. Well, at this initiative the spokesperson of the People's Party spoke a little bit of everything, it almost seemed that he wanted to avoid getting into the wind issue. I've been going around a lot of times where it could be the sense of being introduced. Because, of course, that a political party that made the wind issue a horse and that, after ten years of ruling, the only thing that has to do with us is a request to send it to the state, it's always a bit surprising. I know you've removed the Autonomy Statute page that gives us skills in industrial planning, I know. But yet I was a little stupid. And the conclusion I came up with is that it's really a self-exculpatory initiative. It's self-exculpatory to have whoever blames him for his scrupulous failure in the field of wind energy and in that law of business implementation ten years after arriving at the Government. And that doesn't cover reality, it doesn't cover reality in wind, it doesn't cover reality in the crisis that this country is living in employment, with destruction of wild employment in all areas. Look, I don't know if they've read the paper today or if they're going to be offended by this question: Galicia destroyed 3,860 jobs in the worst of November in five years. This is the non-economic crisis that will affect everyone but Galicia, according to the budgets of the Galician Union, as you also mentioned the budgets. The unemployment rises in 1,352 Welsh in November despite the campaign of black Friday. That's the reality of Galician employment that you can't cover as much as you're looking for extra blame. And reality is also in the field of industrial employment and in the field of energy. All indicators move us away from the state media and also from the European media, Mrs Novoa, indeed. And just like you made a remix here of subjects, I'll do it too. And, look, it's Wednesday. He's got the initiative right, it's Wednesday morning, there's journalists watching, etc. But, look, Wednesdays are treacherous, because, when they don't come here talking about industrial employment, the IPI comes out, and today, they come here saying that they're the most innovative people on the planet, we have the data of innovation — according to what the Galego Institute of Statistics says today. In 2018 they didn't even overcome the average investment in R+D+i when they arrived at the Government, nor did they reach the state average or the European average. You keep moving away from innovation, and you keep moving away from convergence with the state or Europe. And that's also because in strategic sectors, like energy -- which we've agreed on -- you've failed sharply. You come here to say, of course, that it's the sacrifice of wind production that we have... well, you know, can't you say? [[Balbordo.]] I didn't say "holy spirit." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] This time I don't know why they're angry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u253	Silence! That's good!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u254	It's just... please! Anyway, well, it's not the crime, it's wonderful the development in renewable energy of this government! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Some pieces have already been put here because Galicia has that index, which is not thanks to you. [[Murmurs.]] But, look, you've been in the government since you sent out 2,300 megawatts — which were already tried ten years ago — by political sectarianism, by that political sectarianism...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u255	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u256	...which cost us 3 million euros public, Mrs. Novoa, who could go to those energy efficiency programs of the Inega and who were what? Paying for court judgements. That's what they did, Mrs. Novoa. And that's what he did that in less than a decade they installed less than 500 megawatts. As much as the Wind Association now thinks it can end this same year by installing four hundred and apes, that doesn't solve ten years of lost time, which is what we had with you in the wind. That's why we tabled an amendment, because we need to seek consensus in this country to recover that wasted time. And that's why we propose a new sectoral wind plan. That's why we also propose to strengthen staff in the Welsh administration. Because to us what do the wind associations of this country tell us? That business implementation law is not serving. And it's not serving because the administrative paralysis continues because there's not enough staff. We also propose to promote further transformative measures, such as public participation in the energy sector. Because you've been banned. And for these consequences, we are going to pay for the highest electricity bill in the entire state this year, Mrs. Novoa. That's because of the wind cannon you set up. That's why we propose a return to public participation, plus the BNG model...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u257	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u258	...and less model People's Tariff Party. And we also propose measures to strengthen environmental surveillance, create a contingency fund...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u259	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u260	...for this aspect, save the Natura Network and its extension proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u261	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u262	And finally put an end to those problems that are happening in the territory, like the case of the Iribio...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u263	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u264	...who was leaving this morning, Mrs. Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u265	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u266	If you want an in-depth debate on the wind model that this country needs, let's have it, let's have it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u267	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u268	And then we exaggerate at the state or European level what this country decides.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u269	Thank you very much. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u270	But don't come here with this distraction strategy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u271	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u272	...to self-excuse himself for his failure and to blame others.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u273	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u274	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u275	You won't complain that time has not been compensated! [[Murmurs.]] Silence! You have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group on the Left, Mr Sánchez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u276	Good morning. Mrs. Novoa, you, trying to speak about the goodness of the People's Party's wind model, described here a process of colonization of the perfect territory. You said, "Galicia is the leader in wind production." Galicia is no leader in wind production. Who is the leader of wind production is Naturgy, Iberdrola, Endesa and all these companies. [[Murmurs.]] Energy is not ours. Therefore, Galicia is no leader of anything. Their friends are leaders, who, thanks to their model, were able to colonize the territory.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u277	Quiet, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u278	But you come here to explain that this is the only possible worlds. And since we've been having too many debates and I don't always want to be hanging against a wall — which is really frustrating — I think I'm going to set an example of a country, Denmark, which, by different political decisions and public policies, has resulted in a completely different model. It was based on a strong interaction between public research institutions, regulators, industry and citizens, which made Denmark a world leader in wind production, technological production, wind technology, and, above all, evident social returns. Denmark, with 5.6 million inhabitants, exports 10 billion euros of annual average wind technology. He's the world leader. But in this model, there are 40,000 Danish and Danish who are members of the wind farms. And it's no coincidence, since 2009, in Denmark, at least 20% of the capacity of wind farms, at least 20%!, has to be offered to local communities, and more than 50% of the Danish wind is owned by Danish citizens. Meanwhile, here, John Doldán or Rosa Regueira have conducted a study showing for years that 85% of the capital of the wind wind is foreign capital. It's an obvious colonization process. And in Denmark, there's equitable governance of resources because people's policies have been made, policies that democratized energy. Here, since the years of Fraga, what has been done was to convert natural resources, the territory of Galicia and laws — which are made into chambers that should defend the general interest — into private benefits, socializing impacts and privatizing benefits. That's your model. [[Murmurs.]] And now they come here to ask us for more, they want more for those same companies, than the state licits more, that you go up more, and that he comes to install wind turbines in Galicia. They will now lead the clean energy transition Endesa, Iberdrola and Naturgy, which today are very beautiful at the top of the climate. Endess, Iberdrola or Naturgy, these companies, will not lead any clean energy transition or much less fair. They are only guided by maximizing the benefit, they are alien to our reality and colonize our territory as you let them do — for example, in the Iribian, with processing, besides, fraudulent and finger-made for your friends. Business is what guides you to your wind policies. Galicia doesn't need to install wind turbines today if or yes, Galicia needs to install wind turbines where they don't farm the landscape, our heritage, the environment, and with social return so that rural people can benefit from the facilities they put there. And it doesn't happen as it happened with our rivers or as it happened with our lignite. A lot of people are reporting it. The Galician Wind Observatory was created to increase justice with rural people. And for example, the people who represent this observatory say, "Eolic development has been a missed opportunity to strengthen the rural environment, its communities and its people. It was a sort of colonization. Foreign capital — territorially and socially speaking — has arrived at the Greek mountains to install themselves or themselves the air carriers without any kind of consideration relevant to the inhabitants of the rural environment." And they made it through a legal framework designed by the Galician Council, which allowed it and encouraged it. Here we use the statement of public utility to expropriate cheap citizens living in rural areas for others to do very succulent business.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u279	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u280	Today we earn 600 million euros in the wind business, which, as I said, 85% is foreign capital and here are the crumbs left. They don't fool anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u281	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u282	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is, Mrs. Marta Novoa, today is also the closure of the parishioners in Ourense. You're from Ourense and I see you haven't presented any initiative here. It's a subject that matters a lot. It's important enough, yes, yes, yes, to the population! [[Applause]] Maybe they won't let him... but, well... [[Applause]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u283	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u284	In any case, look, today I want to emphasize the urgency of the People's Party in order to be able to debate this initiative today in this plenary. He literally says, "The urgency is motivated by the need for the Galician Parliament to express this demand to the Government of Spain as soon as possible so that it can be valued from the first day of its constitution." In other words, Members of the People's Party present an initiative to lay the duty of the Government of Spain as soon as possible. That is, the People's Party, which, lacking fully the necessary sense of state, blocked Pedro Sánchez's investment in April, the same party — the People's Party — that with its blockade allowed and helped that this country had to be led to new elections, the same People's Party that once again is more concerned with noise and a handful of votes... [[Strong murmurers.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u285	Mr. Trenor, twice!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u286	...it will not now act with a sense of state and manifests day after day that will not facilitate the reinvestment of those who have won democratically again by most general elections in November. [[Strong murmurers.]] And in the meantime, the Members and Members of the People's Party of Galicia, without worrying about the governance of the state, without demanding their candidate to stop blocking and to allow them to govern those who have democratically won the elections, lay down their duties for when it is constituted. The truth is it looks like a joke, another story that has been used to by the leaders of the People's Party in Galicia. Look, Members and Members of the People's Party, to govern, to manage the resources that are all of them, we cannot afford to play games or jokes. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Look, while you put other people's duties on them, they forget that they have an absolute majority in Galicia to rule, to manage the resources of the Greeks and the Greeks. And I'm going to remind you of some data — if you forget about it just to go to the state — of which is your 10-year balance of the People's Party's Government: 97,000 inhabitants less, 240.000 persons under 40 years of age, 50,100 households with all their members unemployed, 27,400 homes without income, 50,500 unemployed less than the third quarter of 2009, 4,400 people less in industry than the third quarter of 2009. [[Murmurs.]] And I also bring the same note that my predecessor brought, Mrs. Presas Bergantiños: "Galicia loses 800 autonomy and leads the fall of female self-employment in 2019" and "The unemployment rises in 1,352 Galicians in November" — this in today's newspapers. And, look, I'm going to give you industrial management data, which I also have. [[Murmurs.]] In the index of industrial production, medium and year-round, Galicia is the second autonomous community that has the worst evolution of all autonomous communities. In volume exported in the first half of 2019 for the same period of 2018 Galicia is down by 10%, while in the state it is positive by 1.7%. In 2018 in Galicia 509 companies were formed less than those constituted in 2016. In 2016-2017 activity in Galicia of industrial enterprises based in other communities increased by 1.4 points, while activity in other communities of industrial enterprises based in Galicia decreased by 1.2. And I'm no longer going into budget execution because, if I don't, it won't give me time to play more themes. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Galicia led at the end of the last century the deployment of wind energy on the Iberian peninsula, both qualitatively, with the first wind farms, as quantitatively, being the first autonomous community in installed power.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u287	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u288	Yeah, okay. Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u289	Mr. Trenor, I call you by order, because seven times already. He's bothering. I'll warn the rest too, Mr. Sánchez, of course. [[Murmurs.]] Well, you know I'm gonna warn the rest around there, too. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Yeah, someone knows. [[Murmurs.]] So, shut up. Consider it a call to order, to see if it works. [[Murmurs.]] Finish, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u290	Thank you, President. For the annulment of the government's wind competition Emilio Pérez Touriño was one of the first battles of the People's Party in the 2009 autonomic campaign, without taking into account the warnings...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u291	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u292	...on the legal insecurity that would have such annulment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u293	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u294	I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u295	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u296	Nuñez Feijóo, once again, anticipates the media noise...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u297	It's over, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] By the author group of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Novoa Iglesias
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u298	Thank you, President. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo and Mrs. Noela Blanco, look, I have been the mayor's lieutenant of a council since 2011, managing resources and listening to reports, to many technical reports. If you ever managed and ruled, you would know that often technical criteria prevail over politicians, ladies and gentlemen. That's what they have to know.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u299	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u300	Look, Mr. Casal, you always innovate a lot. But this time they're proposing that we do megaparks in Galicia, wind megaparks. Look, the Law of forced expropriation and the environment are basic laws, Mr. Casal, so you know. We all like renewable energies — wind, photovoltaic — But it's clear that Galicia has a potential in wind energy that gives a lot of wealth and does a lot of work here in Galicia. Not like photovoltaic, where most products are bought in China, Mr. Casal. We defend the work done in Galicia. Look, Mrs. Noa Presas, I'll answer your questions. I'm not a Knight. Ask me what I want. I'll answer your questions. Look, you don't like Galicia having 14.5% of Spain's wind power, they don't like it. [[Laughter]] And it goes for both of you, it goes for Mr. Sánchez and you, who belonged to the same group at that time. [[Applause]] About the famous Bipartite wind competition, you, who talk about adjudicating friendly companies, will you deny me, are you able to deny me here, who did not harm Naturgy, Enel, Gamesa or FCC? Are they going to deny me that they didn't assist the FCC here? [[Balbordo.]] Come on! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Political hypocrisy, gentlemen! [[Strong murmurers.]] They've had megawatts on the FCC and Naturgy, Mr. Sánchez. And you were in the BNG for that moment. I wasn't, I wasn't political, but you were.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u301	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u302	Look, they're asking for plans. Galicia has a sectoral wind plan. You, who know a lot about this, will know that only the Basque Country and Galicia have sectoral wind plans in Spain. Castela-León, which is Spain's first power, has no sectoral wind plan. How do they do it there? How do they do it there, then? And they're leaders in wind power. Look, your speech falls. And, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, they present an amendment here of total inaction. It's just that he's surreal. Take your thumbs off. But yesterday, Mr. Energy Secretary announced that they were going to put up. You guys pulled the posses of the amendment. Look, they're trying to close the thermals, the electrointensives, and they don't want us to, what they do, renewable energy stations. But what energy are we going to live with, Your Honor? With which? Anyway... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Strong murmurers.]] Look, another data. Do you know how many megawatts have auctioned the Adalid of renewable energies, Mr. Pedro Sánchez? In 2018, zero megawatts; in 2019, zero megawatts. The adalid of the environment that takes the plane to go from Madrid to Valladolid, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u303	Finish, please. On the amendments, Mrs. Novoa...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u304	Look, ladies and gentlemen, what's clear is that you two don't agree at all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u305	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u306	One wants to remove the posses, another wants to modify the sectoral wind plan...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u307	Thank you very much. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, Mrs. Vilan, for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u308	They disagree, and that's why we can't accept your amendments, ladies and gentlemen. You don't agree with each other.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u309	Your time is up. On the amendments, Mrs. Novoa... [[Mr. Novoa Iglesias speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] We then proceed to the vote on non-legislative proposals. [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez asks for the floor.]] Tell me, Mrs. Blanco, that he wants the word. [[Strong murmurers.]] Quiet, quiet, please! Tell me why you want the use of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u310	I ask for the floor on the basis of Rule 76 of the Rules of Procedure, as it was not in the debate and Mrs Novoa mentioned it during her intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u311	Quiet, quiet! Quiet! Quiet, please, we have to start the votes. Look, I haven't seen any allusion that requires any correction or intervention on its part. No, you ask for the floor on the basis of Rule 76, and who decides is the presidency. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Just like the morning in the questions you refer to the counselors who are sitting. And counsellors don't ask for the word because they feel flattered. So, I understand that this allusion doesn't give you... [[Murmurs.]] [[Strong murmurers.]] Mrs. Blanco, look, the one who has to do with the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure is to me, so I thank you for your request and I will testify to you. Let's move on to the vote. And silence, please. We vote. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u312	Voting of the first non-law motion, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Joint Group, on the initiative of Mr Sánchez García. The amendment of the Socialist Group was accepted. We vote. Vote of the transactioned text of the Non-Law Proposition, of the G.P. of the Left Joint Group, at the initiative of D. Antón Sánchez García and D. David Estévez Rodríguez, on the allocation by Galicia of the necessary personal and budgetary means to the Mabegondo Agricultural Research Centre, with the coverage of the vacancies of existing investigator staff. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u313	Silence! Otherwise they won't know what they're voting for. The next non-legislative proposal is by the Joint Parliamentary Group. We've reached a transaction that I suppose will have all the groups. Do you know her? Well, then we voted for this negotiated initiative. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Together, on the initiative of Da Paula Vázquez Verao and two other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the situation in Galicia with regard to climate change and environmental deterioration. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u314	We now turn to the following non-legislation proposal, which is the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales, on the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members. I understand that the self-amendment is accepted and that the amendment of the Socialist Group is accepted. Let's vote then. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the demands of the hospital community regarding the deficiencies existing in different specialties and the future of the kitchen service of the Comarcal Hospital of Verín. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u315	We are voting on the following proposal, which is from the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and eight others. The amendments were not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and eight other Members, on the reitegation by the Government of Greece before the Central Government of the demand for withdrawal from the limitation of the rates of replacement of squares for the public health system. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. This initiative is therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u316	We proceeded to the next vote on the proposal by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela and Mrs. Noela Blanco Rodríguez. The amendment of the Joint Group, the Galician Nationalist Block and the Left Joint Group was accepted as an addendum. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela and da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the action to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the offer to patients of the public health of their surgical intervention in a concerted centre, in compliance with the Health Insurance Act. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u317	We turn to the following non-law proposal, which is the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Luís Manuel Álvarez Martínez and two others. No amendments were tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Luís Manuel Álvarez Martínez and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the deficiencies that present the facilities and the lack of appropriate teaching material at the Higher Music Center of Vigo. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u318	We proceed to the next vote, on the non-legislative proposal by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, on the initiative of Mrs. Maria Monserrat Prado Cores and five others. The amendment of the Left Joint Group and the amendment of the Socialist Group is accepted. Not the other one, just the addition part. [[Mr Prado Cores asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u319	We have access to the point-by-point vote, with which the point that says, "They must be those policies..."...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u320	Excuse me, repeat me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u321	The paragraph that says "must be axes of these policies...", the first one, we would vote separately. And then everything else together.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u322	Okay. So, first of all, we vote on that point separately and then on the rest. We vote. Voting the first point of the paragraph which begins with "must be axes of these policies..." of the compromised text of the G.P. Non-law. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Monserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament and the actions to be carried out in connection with the drama of emigration. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 38; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. This fragment of the text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u323	We are now voting on the rest of the text, the rest of the points of the initiative. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, except the paragraph voted separately, at the initiative of Da María Monserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament and the actions to be carried out in connection with the drama of emigration. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u324	We passed the last vote, the 4.8, of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mrs Marta Nóvoa Iglesias and thirteen more. The amendments were not accepted; we therefore voted. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Galician people, at the initiative of Da Marta Nóvoa Churches and 13 other Members, on the demand by the Government of Greece to the central government for the call for new renewable energies for the increase of the wind power installed in Galicia, as well as the production of such energies. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; votes against, 16; abstentions, 18. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is passed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u325	After the vote, the voting opened the doors. We continue with the agenda and we move on to the interpellations. Da María Monserrat Prado Cores and five other G.P. Members. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the measures envisaged by the Sea Council to improve security in the back after the wreckage of the Sin Querer Circle From December 19, 2018, as well as the data related to the device mobilized by Maritime Rescue on that left
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u326	To formulate the inquiry, Mrs. Prado Cores has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u327	Good day, and very good day to the people from the Ferrol River Sea area who also accompany us from the rostrum. Good morning, Counselor. A year ago, we watched a tragedy in the sea, the sinking of the no-wanker two, which ended up with three deaths and one disappeared, even today without appearing. At that point, the alarms were skipped again. It was a tragic accident that once again called into question whether the resources of means, systems and control protocols are guaranteed to deal with any kind of incident or maritime accident on our backs. It has come back to show that in the 21st century there are already more than a hundred ships sunk on the Galician coasts, the most of them fishing, it has come back to show that more than 40,000 ships pass just a few kilometers from our shores through the so-called Fishery corridor, and a very important part of these ships with dangerous and polluting goods. And today, a year later, we got the alarms back on, because last November 22nd, the tanker with the flag of Malta, the Blue Star, was jammed on the shore of Ares. This ship from Bilbao to the port of the Coruña was found, prior embarrassment, founded in the stream of Ares. For reasons we don't know and most...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u328	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u329	...by the Greeks and the Greeks, they don't know today either - I hope you can give us information and reasons we don't know - in the context of a strong storm, makes the decision to embark on navigation towards the port of the Crown. On the route there is no machine, drifting away, losing control, and ends up stuck on the coast and sweeping into the place of the Miranda Islands. Fortunately for Galicia and the area, the ship did not carry dangerous or polluting chemical cargo inside it, beyond 110 tons of fuel for the ship itself, because otherwise we would be talking about fatal consequences for the marine ecosystem and for the productivity of this area. And they skip the alarms because, in the face of a new accident, we return to obscurantism, to the lack of information, at least public, to erratic decisions, again to the absence of the German Government -- from our point of view to any of the German Government -- Again, the sector is again uninformed, with the alarms totally lit and afraid that it will again be the people of the sea who pay the consequences of the embarrassment of this ship. That's why today we want to ask you why, of course, we do not know the measures that have been taken since the Maritime Rescue in front of the drift of the ship. We find the decisions erratic again because, after several frustrated attempts to get the ship out of the place where it was dug, using the opportunities that the premarital offered and seeing the stakes were broken, he finally gave up doing it. It was asked from the sector and from the area that once the fuel had been released from the ship, and we see how we had to wait from November 22 to 30 - more than a week - for that fuel transvasion to take place. I insist, despite the fact that there was a social and political demand from the very first moment, that question that was not considered and that we then see that it was executed. We see the improvisation and we see how it was claimed that, in the face of the ship's embarrassment, procedures and protective mechanisms were put in place, whether we were going to try to cool it down or do this fuel transvasion. We see how these prevention measures were not implemented. Fortunately, there was a small, small greenery, but it could not be that way, and we did not understand how once again an area of such a huge seafood potential is left unprotected. Because we're talking about this boat falling into the stream of Ares, which has a very important productive, fishing and seafood richness. In the same way, an important activity is carried out: sailors of the fleet of bass, sailors of fleet, on foot, mariners of specific resources, perceivers and various confrries, that of Lorbe, that of Sada, that of Mine, that of Pontedeume, that of Ares, in addition to the Coruña and Barallobre, who have plans of joint exploitation. Just 500 metres from where the Blue Star is blocked, are the Miranda Islands, with a great biodiversity, probably the richest area of the entire Gulf of the Arctic and an important marine breeding area, especially of crustaceans. This is, therefore, a particularly sensitive area on the Welsh coast and also historically punished by pollution episodes; ultimately, a very fishing- and seafood-dependent area. That's why one of the greatest alerts and alarms you're currently suffering from the sector is that they've been notified of the ban on fishing a mile from the boat. Miranda Islands are less than 500 meters away, and in this whole area, with this potential of what I'm talking about, they have the prohibition of faenar. We're talking about the ban on faenar in the middle of December, which is the time of the year when they practically make 50% of the month's billing. Of course, I hope you have some explanation or information on this prohibition and whether measures will be taken to protect the interests of this sector, whether this information is true and whether the Council has been informed of this prohibition, whether this decision has been taken in accordance with the Council or whether it has been taken behind the Council and, of course, behind the industry. Because one of the issues we want to move here today is the total lack of information again in the face of a disaster that the sector has had. There were no meetings with the confrereries, no calls to inform them what was going on, what was going on, what were the risks, what measures they were going to take and how they would be affected. Of course, at the BNG, also according to what the sector thinks, we don't think it's a receipt that repeats over and over again, in the face of a disaster, in the face of an accident at sea, that the sector is not informed and not taken into account. We are also concerned and very much - you can believe us, Mrs. Quintana - that of the information we saw in the press, of the official communications of maritime rescue, there is no connection to the Union, which was minimal. In the press notes, the representative of the Government, the General Secretariat of Transport, the Director of Maritime Safety, the technical staff of the port authorities, representatives of the shipowner's house and the private company to whom the subcontract for rescue took place took place at the meetings, but at no time seems to have any representative of the Board, at no time seems to have been the advisor or a director general. And to us, of course, they worry, and much, that in the face of an accident in the sea affecting our backs, our resources, our sea people, Galician people in general, who were not the Counsellor. I hope you confirm it or deny it. Of course, we're going to criticize, oppose and ask for explanations if there's no government in our country in this situation. I hope it wasn't agreed by the Council and that, if this situation is so, it would give us an explanation of how it happened. So, Mrs. Quintana, we'd like to know what information you have for Junta and what was your participation in this decision-making after the accident, because, of course, accidents happen, but we want to know how this accident was handled...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u330	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u331	...because the ship came out of his founder despite the yellow alert and the...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u332	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u333	...intensity of the wind—remato, president—..., the institutional relationship that maintained the Government of Galicia with the Spanish Government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u334	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u335	And one question we're also concerned about is whether Ares' laugh has the consideration of place and refuge...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u336	Thank you very much. You have another word shift later. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] The sea councillor, Mrs. Quintana Carballo, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u337	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing I want to do is a transfer of memory to the families of the deceased and the missing person in the accident of the Sin Querer Dos wreckage will be about 19 a year ago. The truth is, I say it with pain, Mrs. Prado, but I think politics isn't worth everything. I don't think it's fair that you bring here a question from last year, concerning the ship Sin Wanter Dos; a question that has already been answered in committee, to make some reflections on what happened with the ship Blue Star. It seems to me that, as I say, in politics it's not all good, it's not worth playing with the feelings of families who lost a relative in an accident from the sea and it's not worth trying to use an accident that happened 15 days ago, which you even had time to pose an urgent question and complete it. Anyway, if you want to talk about Blue Star, we're going to talk about Blue Star, we're going to talk about each other's performance, about what everyone says, about what everyone has asked for in cases like this. I, of course, am very clear who puts politics in all the performances and everywhere. There wasn't even the crew out of the boat when you were already doing politics. You guys, when we were paying attention to what was happening on the boat, they were already doing politics, they were talking again about transfers, skills and who was competing for maritime rescue. And I'm telling you, really, that it might be important for anyone to have the transfers, but for me the most important thing is how these skills are coordinated. We don't know if the place of competence is important, but coordination is done from Galicia. The maritime emergencies in this area are co-ordinated from the Fisterra Marine Rescue Zone, which is on a mountain in Porto do Son. I think it's very close to Galicia. The leaders of the Fistra Rescue Center were and are Germans. Of course, the most important thing is that they are experts and acquaintances, not the source they have, but in this case I have to say they are Greek. It is collected that this service provision is coordinated by a real legislative decree of the year 2011 and that the competences are executed through the decision and the work of the technicians. That's why we don't understand what would improve the performances if we carried them out by the Greek politicians. I sincerely believe that it was no better coordination when some German politicians made decisions about maritime rescue, and I am not going to remind them here of Mr. Blanco's decision to make a helicopter in EEC - a heliport that is not operational - and to hire a third helicopter, which has to be in Santiago because there he cannot operate. And that was done because the Galician Union arrived in 2009 and made a report and said that the most important thing for maritime rescue was to have two helicopters covering the entire coast, with a 10-minute response, 365 days of the year. Until SEPLA applauded this decision by the Galician Council. That's what it's like to work for the marine rescue. [[Applause]] As for the matter of transfers, if you don't believe me, I'll tell you that in 2007 when there was a problem with a ship -- I don't know if they remember it -- the Ostedijk, who walked seven days out of the way, already President Touriño himself at that time to a response from the Nationalist Block of Galicia, with which they formed government, said that there must be a distinction between gaining competence and acting effectively when there is a crisis. And if they were talking about the absence of the board -- and you said it here, I don't know how many times -- I mean, from the minute on, one deputy director of the Galician Coast Guard was present in the area. The same Saturday morning we ordered the ship Ría de Vigo to move to the area. It was the Ría de Vigo ship all Saturday and all Sunday there. You saw it, though you are able to say that there was the Deputy Director of Coast Guards in a small bowl there to do nothing about it. We have been present, we have sent the ship Ría de Vigo, which is the trailer and is a ship operated with the Emsa, the European Maritime Security Agency - the addendum that is done for that ship to be operated by the Government of Galicia - we have put the Camgal Action Plan on the alert from the minute one and the Marine Control Centre technicians have been working since minute one, making predictions, in case there was some contamination to see where the stains would go. Those predictions were being passed to the Fisterra Coordination Centre. The ports of Galicia put in operation the docks of Ares and Sada because they needed to accumulate anti-contamination material. And the Fishery II helicopter from Galician Coast Guard Service participated in the rescue work of the crew. And I don't know what else they want me to tell them. They put here: "lack of barrier care measures." Well, look, if we put up the barriers, you'll tell me how the ships that are going to try to tow the ship can work, because either they take the barriers forward or they can't drag; it would make the operation very difficult. So, what I truly believe is that in these cases there is a need for good coordination, for the technicians to work, and so that no natural resource or any life of people may be in trouble. They also said that the coordination of this whole operation was carried out 600 kilometers from the coast. Well, it was held from the Coruña Control Tower, which I think from the same windows could be watching the boat. They also said that in Galicia there were no means and that the shipowner had to hire a boat outside. Well, look, the company that hired the shipowner is a Dutch company, which was also hired in the case of Ostedijk, and has the freedom to hire her whatever means she wants. Of course, the means he hired was neither more powerful nor more effective than any one we have here in Galicia or who has the Spanish State here too on our coast. They also talked about their backs being unprotected. I have to remember here that the only ones who have activated means to have our protected backs were the People's Party governments. The two ships: Brothers García Nodal and Sebastian Docampo were acquired by governments of the People's Party. The Ría de Vigo ship, which is coordinated with the European Maritime Safety Agency, is funded by the Council of the Sea since the Galician People's Party's Union. We have two logistics ships for the accumulation of anti-contamination material in Cambados. We drafted and approved the Territorial Plan to Combat Marine Pollution in 2012, which was updated in 2016. We participated in 15 projects related to the fight against pollution and oceanographic conditions at European level and received three awards: one with the Arcopol project in 2016, one with the year 2017 and one with the Marine project in 2018. And you, when you ruled those four years, what did you do? Absolutely nothing. We continue to work to have Galicia better equipped with means and more technically and scientifically prepared, and on that line we will continue to work. The only thing they're never gonna find us is trying to make politics of a possible misfortune. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u338	Thank you very much, Counselor. In the replica round, Mrs. Prado Cores has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u339	Madam Quintana, I, a counselor say that he doesn't do politics, it's a good thing that you portray yourself. Indeed, we have come here to make politics, to defend political projects and to ask for political explanations, because you have to give political explanations. [[Applause]] And look, who plays, of course, with people's feelings, is you saying that asking for explanations here is to do some kind of harm to the victims. You want it to be, as always, to put on smoke curtains, because I have to remind you, Counselor, is that you won't win me in pain by the sinking of the Sin Wanter Two, you won't beat me in pain, because there my comrades died. You won't beat me in pain, but precisely because of that, I want my country to be protected from accidents, precisely for that. [[Applause]] And from that accident we asked him what measures he had planned to take to improve maritime safety and whether he had planned to request the transfers of maritime rescue and the fight against pollution, issues that remain perfectly at stake a year later; perfectly vigilant, Mrs Quintana. And look, you here made a amendment to yourself, because it says it doesn't matter who has the skills, and then it says that, since we don't have the skills, others decide where they put the resources, and they don't decide it right. Yes, it matters who has the skills, of course it matters; of course it matters who has the skills. If the Council was present from the very first moment, why does no one of the Council appear in the press notes sent from the coordination mechanism? It's a surprising thing. Everyone but the Galician Union is mentioned, amazing! Now, if you want to cover up none of the Spanish Government and it seems good to you, there you and the People's Party; to the BNG, no, to the BNG, it doesn't seem right to us, it doesn't seem quite right to us. We would like to know that the existing cooperation agreement signed between the United States and the Spanish Government on maritime rescue and fight against pollution is in place. I told him a question, which was the most important one, after the accident, and it was the one mentioned in the consequences of the accident. And I told him that since the sector they're alarmed because they're getting communications to the confrereries telling them they can't make a mile from the boat, in an area of very important fishing, seafood and reproduction. I guess you don't want to answer that question. And I told him if you were an acquaintance, if you were a participant and if you were a consensor. And if that's the case, how are you going to compensate the people at sea for that decision, because they tell you that they can't go to work there when that meant 50 percent or so of the billing of a year... I guess something they'll have thought about, and I'd like you to explain it here. I, a year after the disaster, of the shipwreck of Sin Querer Two, almost seventeen years after the Prestige and many others that have just occurred on these dates, I have to tell you again: darkness, lack of information, erratic decisions, lack of coordination, absence of the German Government, which says the important thing is that it is done. Anyway, we don't have a government, and we accept that position of subordination and none. And again, the fear of the seamen for what could happen and because we're already seeing the consequences, again, of these catastrophes pay them with their backs. Before that, what I hope is that my country's government has something to say and that it has answers to people who are affected. You in your intervention have not answered at all to any of these matters, and you have also come to say how else to do it. We have a government that doesn't care or worry about one of the biggest concerns that people in the sea have, which are the means and how it acts in the face of accidents -- because most accidents are mostly fishing boats and recreational boats, but the most serious for environmental effects are those of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u340	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u341	...ships carrying dangerous substances, and we wait...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u342	Thank you, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u343	...some kind of reply on your part, Mrs. Quintana...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u344	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u345	...but we see, as usual, that he's not even expected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u346	Thank you very much. The sea councillor, Mrs. Quintana Carballo, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u347	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Look, Mrs. Prado, I don't come here to compete with anyone who feels the most pain every time there's a missing person, I won't compete on that subject; the only thing I'm telling you is, frankly, that if you wanted to talk about the Blue Star, you could have asked a question about the Blue Star and you wouldn't use a registered question about the Sin Wanter Two to do here. Of course, no intention was. [[Applause]] Look, the German Government has not been missing, nor is it missing, nor will it ever be gone as long as the People's Party governs, because we always work to defend the interests of our fishing sector. And to work in the interests and defense of our fishing sector, we work to improve everything that has to do with maritime safety, maritime rescue and clean up the possible pollution of our coasts. You come here to say: and now you know something about the prohibition they've made so they can't faenenar? Listen, do you know that there was an accident and that, when there was an accident, we have to take preventive measures and that in order to be able to work on the fuel and fuel disposal of the ship and to do now the ship's rescue operations had to prohibit fishing vessels from working in a particular area? Ma'am, it's an accident, you have to avoid that, and that's the responsibility of the Maritime Captain, who is responsible for navigation and for accidents of deciding whether it is prohibited to do so there or not. Then we will see how the inoperability that the sector could have been affected by this measure will be affected. What's complicated is that you want the ships to be working while you're also doing the rescue, gas oil and fuel operations of the boat or also the boat's release when it's jammed. Man, you have to have a little common sense. And don't tell me the German Government has been missing. I'm already telling you that we ourselves were the ones who made all the predictions, every change of wind or every change of tide, to pass through the control tower to use that data in case there was any greenery. I don't know if I'm going out in the press or not, I don't care at all. I'm concerned about working for the interests of the fishing sector. And, as you tell me that nothing has changed, I tell you that if you have changed, you have improved all the large boats of the Coast Guard Service so that you can be more prepared for a case like the one that occurred in the Blue Star; that we have helicopters hired 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, with an effective response of ten minutes; that we have signed a contract with Emsa, with the European Maritime Safety Agency, to have the Vigo Ría available to any accident that occurs on our coast; that we are the autonomous community that has more means to the central government's marine rescue available so that they can be used. We are the autonomous pioneering community in those cases, we participate in 15 projects at Community level, of which we are awarded in three. What else do you want me to tell you, don't I go out in the papers? I'm just not worried. What I'm worried about is saying that the Blue Star accident solved positively, that there was no contamination in the area, and that now... there was pollution in the area, Mrs. Prado? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Home!, three square meters, but there was no pollution, because there is pollution can affect resources, and it has not affected any kind of resources, Mrs. Prado. You were hoping another Prestige had appeared. Here they were willing, but in the time that you were part of a bipartisan government, not a single half put in, they did not act in any way to improve the service. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, I'll tell you more, what they did during the four years of the Bipartite. At that time, in 2005, when we left the Government, there was a plan to fight against approved marine pollution, which gave competence to the Fisheries and Maritime Affairs Adviser at that time. When the Bipartite arrived in the government, you know what they did? From the Fisheries Council, the first thing you've done is to hand over your powers to the Vice President of the Government. That's what they did to the bipartisan government. When we arrived at the Government, we understood that who had operation, who had the people and who had the knowledge and the media was the Councillory of the Sea, and they returned those powers to the Councillory of the Sea. That's the difference between them. There you will never find me, Mrs. Prado, nor will I compete with you in the pain that is generated every time you lose a human life, because yours will be very big, but mine can assure you that too. [[Applause]] I won't compete in that story. And I'll never make politics. I do politics because I decide - of course - to where I want to lead my sector, and that's politics. It's politics to decide where the resources are put and expand the means for maritime rescue; that's politics. Playing to ask for another Prestige, that's not to play politics. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u348	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quintana. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr Prado Cores asks for the floor.]] Mrs. Prado, why do you want to use the word?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u349	For Article 76.3.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u350	Wait a second, I'll tell you right now. [[Murmurs.]] What is the expression that affects the decoration?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u351	The expression, repeated twice by the advisor, Mrs. Rosa Quintana, that the BNG is wishing and working for another Prestige to come.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u352	Look, Mrs. Prado, forget...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u353	It seems to us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u354	No, look.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u355	It's indecent!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u356	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u357	It's in-de-cen-te!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u358	No, no, no! [[Murmurs.]] No, look... Miss Prado! Mrs Prado, this is in the debate. No, no. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] That's it! [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] It's not in the use of the word. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] It's not in the use of the word! [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] It's not in the use of the word! [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] The one to apply the Rules of Procedure is to me. I'll call her in order. I call it in order on the first time! [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] I'll call her in order. I'm already applying the Rules. I'll call her in order. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] Stay annotated. [[Murmurs.]] We suspended the session until 6:30.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u359	Good afternoon. We resumed the session and continued at the point of inquiry. Interpellation of G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and two other Members, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to climate change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u360	Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u361	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. What would you think if I started my intervention by talking about greenhouse gas emissions and saying, "This isn't about who has the longest." Those at the bottom, who see you very worried, don't worry, don't worry so much. It would seem — I suppose — a frivolity and a very serious lack of seriousness on my part. For in that frivolity it is in which they live in the General Directorate of Environmental Quality. That was one of the phrases, one of the paragraphs — it is unfortunate that Mr. Blanco Paradelo is not — not sectarians who were seen the other day, about fifteen days ago, in the presentation of the Greek Strategy for Climate Change and Energy 2050; an official and apparently formal presentation in which you were, Counselor. This isn't about who has the longest, indeed, not even to buy Chinese in Chinese and things like that, which were said that day, which are phrases that it is better not to repeat again. This is about something very serious. It's about whether we're fighting climate change, or we're disappearing. That's what it's about. Yesterday the Joint Group asked us to agree, among other things, to declare Galicia in a climate emergency situation, and we have already declared it — it is true — in the debate on the state of autonomy. And, of course, you voted in favour because the proposal was yours, of course, not the opposition, because you had talked about it before and you decided to shut up. It's a symbolic act, a symbolic statement. They asked for more from the Joint Group, and you voted against this very morning at the last hour. Anything that had come since the opposition, related to fighting, mitigation and adaptation to climate change, you would vote against it. But, curiously, last week in the European Parliament they voted in favour. They voted in favour of 429 European Parliamentarians, 225 against and 19 abstentions. They voted in favour of the Liberals, the Socialists and the Greens together; you are in the popular group and there was a split, there was a disagreement, because there is a part that denies climate change. Interestingly, the Spanish Members of the People's Party voted in favour of the fight against climate change, and, above all, they went a little further and voted in favour of asking the European Commission to raise the target of reducing carbon dioxide emissions by 2030 from 40% to 55%. In other words, they voted in favour of what is being asked at the summit of the climate and of what is being asked by the President of the Government of Spain. Interestingly, in that strategy of climate change which is like mana, the claims of reducing emissions that you make are 24.6%, not even half of that 55% that you asked your Members, your MEPs who voted in favour. You guys who go so far as to say that we don't agree and I don't know that, it seems like you're not very clear what you're voting in every place; you see that in every place they vote completely different things. The European Parliamentarians also voted in favour of asking the European Commission to assess the environmental impact of each law initiative. Why? Well, because you have to slow down the increase in temperature and keep that increase below the grade and half. Why? Because if it rises, at least 20% of the water cycle will vary; because if it rises, it will decrease the production of cereals in the tepid areas and also in the tropical areas. Galicia is not tropical, at least for now. Because if it goes up, some unique habitats will disappear. Because, if it rises, transmission diseases as a result of food or water will increase. And because if it goes up that temperature, it'll go up the sea level. In that daily you read frequently, as it was said this morning, the other day there was a study that said they would end up disappearing the Castro de Baroña or the dunes of Corrubedo, and many more parts of the coast of Galicia. It is true that this strategy against climate change is not a law, it has not come to this Parliament, and therefore parliamentary groups, like such parliamentary groups, have never been able to make contributions because it is not a law. It is true that you have said that you have been open, that you have invited everyone, but, curiously, the organizations that have been building the flag of environmental defense for decades and that you know more about back defense and climate change, like Greenpeace, have not known anything about that act, no one has invited you. I was the mayor of Marín, yes, representing all the mayors of Galicia. Interestingly, he is a member of the People's Party in the Congress and mayor of Marin for the People's Party. But Greenpeace was not because no one had called them, no one had called them! In fact, they said, when will that be? Yeah, he's on it. You don't care about certain organizations that may be annoying, Counselor. We want the European Commission to accept these requests from the European Parliaments, also from the European Parliaments of the People's Party, because what had been agreed in the Paris Agreement is insufficient for the fight against climate change. We need a new model of life; a new social pact based on the fight against inequality; a new economic model based on sustainability, with respect to ecosystems and natural heritage; and a new policy framework that includes certain sectors that you prefer to leave out: energy, industry, tourism, agriculture or waste. And we need to do it urgently, it's not good to make a mouthful through a strategy that speaks ill of the Chinese. It's necessary to do it seriously, not by chow chow. Chow chow is no longer worth because we're too late, and we're so late that we're half of what is being asked for in the European Parliament to issue to the European Commission. There is a study, the Climate Emergency Study in Spain, which we know these days, prepared by the Sustainability Observatory, says that Andalusia, Catalonia, Castela-León, Asturias and Galicia are the autonomous communities of Spain that most greenhouse gases emitted to the atmosphere between 1990 and 2018. In the last, between 2018 and 2019, Galicia improved, but improved by the closure of Meirama, justly. He also says that the economy must be decarbonized necessarily, putting a high price on coal. You, with regard to coal, spoke little. The Economics, Employment and Industry Councilman says very badly the Government of Spain, very badly Pedro Sánchez, because he decides to close the thermal of the bridges. Well, curiously, Endesa arrives and says, "No, no, we're going to shut her down, and she won't last her life beyond the year 2022." We must stop frivolities, speak with seriousness, forcefully and urgently. You could also make, for example, a plan for the construction to be varied. You, in front of our questions, just answered a couple of days ago, with regard to public buildings, which Junta rehabilitated the thermal envelope of some public buildings, and to us, at least, it's very difficult to quantify, we don't know how many these are. In waste, in 2020 we have to be about 50% of separate recycling waste in urban waste. And according to the National Institute of Statistics, in 2017 we're going to about 15% of separate waste. But in 2016 we were at 14.82%, i.e. we climbed the scandalous figure of 0.18% thanks to their policies, which are actually very effective. You're sure you're going to tell us that you've already approved the strategy, that we've already voted in favour of the debate on the state of autonomy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u362	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u363	...—Yes, I'm done now—and that's all done. The truth is that I was impressed by that act, that I would say political act...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u364	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u365	...of presentation of the strategy, and I'd like you to come here too to make a political act...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u366	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u367	...and answer us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u368	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vázquez Mejuto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u369	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I am not surprised by Mrs. Vilán's day after day, and the truth is that after a four-hour act in which Greek society was represented because it was invited to the whole world, including parliamentary groups, where the universities were, who gave their visa and enjoyed the Welsh Strategy of climate change and energy, if you just keep two sentences. What poverty, Mrs. Vilán, what poverty! From there... if someone says something about China and suddenly has a mistake and says Chinese instead of China, you don't agree with the proximity trade, it's because you're urging the Greeks and the Greeks to buy Chinese products. [[Applause]] They are not urging the Galicians and the Galicians to buy nearby products and thus avoid CO2 emissions. That's what you were referring to, but you imagine how you can twist something and get here to Parliament, which is serious, and say one after the other without more, out of context. A little serious! On the other hand, on the other hand, I'm not going to repeat that, Mrs Vilan. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] She was a director who spoke over an hour, where there were 200 or 300 people representing Galicia, and it turns out you were the only one who was surprised by two specific phrases. You tell me about the strategy! Have you analysed the data? Got the data? Have you read the strategy? Because maybe we could get more consensus. Having said this, I'll also tell you that Galicia is represented at the COP, that it also does it on the day of the closure, does it on the 13th, and there it will present its strategy. Only four communities, Mrs Vilán, have made the Energy and Climate Change Strategy, the Government doesn't even have the strategy, and they come here to talk about MEPs. Tell me about Galicia, because Galicia is not the problem, Mrs. Vilán, Galicia is the solution. Do you know how many worldwide broadcasts Galicia is contributing? 0.05%. And do you know how many you contribute to Europe level? 0.6%. So ask your government to get to work and emissions are reduced nationally, because, for example, in Extremes, the rise in emissions exceeds 50%, and in Galicia, in the last ten years, it has been reduced by 4.7%. Having said this, like this advisor, together with health and industry technicians, they will be represented at the COP, and yesterday, invited by other organizations, the Infrastructure Advisor, we will continue to work. We will continue to work in an area, and when we talk about waste and talk about so many percent, we must also talk about municipalities, Mrs Vilán. So we're going to achieve climate neutrality. I'm not talking about Endesa, I'm not talking about coal. Do you have to decarbonize? Yes. But do you have to do it properly? You too. And in a programmed way? Of course. And that Endesa invested 250 million euros for the change...? Actually, 250 million. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you realize it has to be the sentence itself, because you're never wrong to Mrs. Vilán? Of course. Mrs Vilán, it's EUR 250 million for the modification of integrated environmental authorisation, and that's because there was a future and because decarbonization was in 2050, it wasn't in 2019, that's the reality. [[Applause]] We're all accused of not doing our work, that I don't want to talk about coal, of course! because it's compatible economic development, sustainability and climate neutrality. Furthermore, as you have been present in the presentation of the strategy, you will know that there have been two years of continuous work where, apparently, there can't be anything the political groups can do because, if they don't come here, they won't be published and can make any relevant contributions, can they? Well, if you say so...! There are other organizations that did. Didn't PSOE? Well, you're still in time to do it. We continue to work, and we will continue to do so, for the Covenant of Mayors for climate and energy. At this point, there are one hundred and fifty municipalities that are attached, and we are advising them in a personalized way because there are singularities in Galicia and treatment cannot be the same in a great city that in a mountain council or in a very rural municipality, and for that we present budgets here. Suddenly we can also talk about budgets at national level to make certain strategies and it turns out we don't have them on the table, but Galicia does have them. And for that pact of mayors we duplicate the budgets. And there are mayors of all ideologies, Mrs. Vilán, it's not a matter of listing one by one, although you were upset that on behalf of all mayors was the mayor of Marin. Why did he do it? Because she's a woman, because she's very proactive and, simply, because the rest of the municipalities are represented in the mayorate of Marin, even though you don't like it. But let's focus on what reality is in itself, and so let's focus on what the work is doing in Galician Union. Only four communities have strategy, Galicia has it. But not only strategy. And not only do we sit as a vanguard community -- and so they recognize it not only at the national level, Mrs Vilan, but also at the European level -- we are the most proactive communities in terms of climate strategy and climate change. So this strategy is designed, planned the same, double-target. Make Galicia a referent, as it is now being changed towards an economic model and low-emission consumption -- although then you draw attention to what we say is that it is better to buy local products than to buy those from China -- And turning Galicia into an active part and a solution to the problem of climate change, as it is. So we're going to continue working -- we're doing it -- and after the strategy we're starting with the integrated Regional Energy and Climate Plan 2019-2023, with 170 measures, where they're from waste to tourism -- quality tourism, green tourism, sustainable tourism and dynamisation -- also putting our rural and our cities into value. It is EUR 1,250 million, through a work carried out by all the councils in which a commitment by the Government of Greece to climate change is shown, promoting an energy model based on clean energy and improving the efficiency of all sectors, boosting innovation and research. The German Government aspires to Galicia as a reference. It does so, in addition, by putting into focus two areas: one is the primary sector, which is part of the solution; and another is our forests, which we have to look after, watch and expand, which are part of the absorption because we are not going to be able to stop issuing everything, placing in value our own nature and orography, which are privileged, to promote clean energies. Clean energies that later are also criticized, because if it's not a group, you don't agree. Waste and tourism also count as specific targets and lines defined within this strategy and within the integrated Regional Energy and Climate Plan 2019-2023. But together with this strategy we have that of the circular economy, which we will adopt, Mrs Vilán, before the end of the year. Speaking of laws, you will have the opportunity to make the contributions -- that may be, be positive -- in the waste law, which we will also bring to this parliament before the end of 2019. Therefore, Galicia will generate new opportunities, and they are also business opportunities, green jobs and population fixation. It increases the degree of awareness of citizenship about climate change, and we must continue to increase it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u370	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u371	And along with the strategy will improve the lives of the Greeks and the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u372	Thank you very much, Counselor. Replica roll. Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u373	Counselor, I didn't come here to say any sentence that wasn't said in that act, I just repeated two sentences. And the terrible thing is, the terrible thing about those sentences wasn't for me to say or for someone else, or for them to say in this Parliament, the terrible thing is that in an official act of the Galician Council the highest technical responsibility for its advice in the fight against climate change was allowed the luxury of making that kind of comment. That's the terrible one, counselor, because it's the person who's in front of the fight against climate change in his counseling, in a general direction. Mr. Trenor, if you have anything else to say, you can come here and tell me, because it really bothers you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u374	Mr. Trenor!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u375	It's like the typical dog behind yam, yam, yam, yam. You're very upset, really! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u376	Mr. Trenor, you have a call to order and it's very close to the second. And I'm glad, Mrs. Vilán, that you've noticed that it's about yam, yam, yam, yam, mogollón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u377	It's true.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u378	Mr. Trenor, be quiet. Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u379	There are several who join the choir. There's not one. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u380	Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u381	We'll keep going, we'll keep going, it'll be better. I don't know. Maybe it can't go on. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Interestingly, in that official act you, Mr. Trenor, didn't open your mouth. He didn't bother her or who has the longest or two Chinese ones, he didn't bother her. Now yes, it bothers me that I repeat it here in the Galician Parliament. By the way, it wasn't represented all of the Greek society. And, curiously, now you're coming with the mayor of Marin because she's a woman. But she's a woman of the People's Party. There are many mayors in Galicia, but I was just the mayor of Marin.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u382	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u383	Well, it's funny, it's very curious! Really.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u384	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u385	But he did it because he was a woman, he didn't do it because he was from the People's Party. Not that. We're all very misconceptions. Let's see, Counselor, we have the most polluting factory in every country in Galicia. The European Parliament is asking the European Commission for half of what is being asked of the European Commission, and under half of it 24.6%. That's your forecast in the strategy. You come into the strategy, I'm not inventing it, you come into the strategy. You didn't deny it, you mean he's coming here. When by 2030 you're talking about 40% and you're asking the European Commission to raise it to 55%, you're at 24.6%. I don't know if it was a figure they put two years ago, when the strategy began, that they didn't review it and that's why it's there. In waste we're going at 15% separate collection, at 15%! In 2020 we have to be about 50% in urban areas, counsellor. Let's see how you're going to jump from 15% to 55%. It would be nice if you didn't answer that. You say he likes to talk about coal. Which is compatible with the industry with climate neutrality. Let's suppose it's not the coal industry, let's suppose it's going to be another, because all the technicians in the world, except you and your CEO of Environmental Quality, think about something else, because it's not compatible. In fact, what the European Union is doing is demanding the countries that close their thermals. And Endesa says she'll close it in 2022. See that the rest of us live in another world.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u386	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u387	And you say we criticize...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u388	Silence! Quiet, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u389	What a thing, really! You're gonna have to take a screen after eating... or before, I don't know. You say we criticize...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u390	Silence! Mr. Tellado, you are not in the use of the word!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u391	You talk to Endesa and see what they tell her. Because we're here, of course, not the owner of the thermal, it's Endesa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u392	Silence! Mr. Tellado, I call you by order. This is fantastic!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u393	Thank you, President. And then you say we criticize -- when they're not one, they're others -- clean energy. We don't criticize clean energy. They criticize you from the Supreme Court of Justice in Galicia when you say a car and they say that you are not protecting the environment as required by article 45 of the Constitution. That's what they say at the Supreme Court of Justice in Galicia, we don't say so, Counselor. He didn't answer virtually anything I asked him. The bad thing is that the world is moving forward, it's going up to 55%, and you've stayed at 24.6%. You go in the Picapiedra car when the rest of the country goes in the electric car. That's the difference, that's the problem. Yeah, she was riding. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It was on foot. Counselor, if we go on like this, this will happen. This isn't the Furelos River, it's any other river in Galicia. Because if it were the River Furelos, the horse would be disintegrated and dead. But it's true that this is what's going to happen if we go to the rhythm of the Picapedra you go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u394	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. Mrs. Vázquez Mejuto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u395	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is, sometimes you come here and you say, we've actually been wasting time. You're here to say they're working without work. You're centered on two sentences from a director, and my question is, what do you object to the Strategy for Climate Change and Energy 2050 from Galicia? My question is, which autonomous communities have strategy? Suddenly, Mr. Sánchez said that the broadcasts would be much smaller. And where is the national strategy? What did the Ministry of Ecological Transition do? What does Mr. Sánchez do more than improvise and close industries? It is the same, that in Germany there are them and nothing happens, in Portugal there are them and nothing happens, but suddenly the problem is unique and exclusively in industry. There's something called orderly ecological transition, which is what Mr. Sánchez or the minister are not doing. That's the reality. [[Applause]] From there, headline after headline, and if it can be alarmism, much better. I put data on the table, and you can't beat them because they didn't break the strategy either. And I say, how many broadcasts does Galicia bring to Spain? 8.6%, Mrs. Vilan. 8,6 % CO2 emissions. Looks like we issued 80%. And then I tell you, there are communities, like the one in Extremeura, that have increased their emissions by 50% in recent years. Oh, but it turns out the problem is in Galicia! That's not in Galicia the problem, Mrs Vilán, that in Galicia is the solution. You put up with the Greeks and the Greeks. You put in value the Greek universities, which were the ones who welcomed the strategy. You value the technicians, and don't try to say that in Galicia nothing is done because in Galicia if everything is done and more. We're talking about strategy. Only four communities have strategy. The COP is going to present the strategy not only for Spain, but worldwide, because that's what they required and because they asked us to do so, Mrs. Vilán. But we also have the strategy of circular economy. Tell me, does the state have the circular economy strategy made? It was his duty, too. What have they been doing so far to avoid having it? But it also presents our waste law, and Galicia will reach the technical zero in 2020, Mrs Vilán. Yes, it has forgotten that there are competences here, and some are from the Galician Union and others are not from the Galician Union, others are from the municipalities, and there we will be to protect them and support them, and we do so with a substantial increase in budgets, so they opt for recycling, so they install the fifth container, the brown container, and therefore they comply with their obligations. Plus, we were talking about composting and 25 million euros were budgeted, of which five are going to invest in a new plant. One's in Sogama, it's going into operation. Of course, you have to adhere to the Town Councils. They don't seem to know there are responsibilities and skills here, and the municipalities are free to do it. And we support them to comply and therefore there are no sanctions. And in 2020, EUR 5 million is planned for a new public composting plant to be made in one of the other three provinces, which is expected to be in Pontevedra. Therefore, the Galician Union is doing its work. The Galician Union is one step ahead of the rest of the autonomous communities, but that's more, the Galician Union is far ahead of the state where it refers to studies and strategies, but not only studies and strategies, but also budgets to implement systems for research and, therefore, to achieve climate neutrality in the year 2050. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u396	Thank you very much, Counselor. Da Eva Solla Fernández's interview with G.P. Group of the Left, on the policy of the German Government on pediatric care
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u397	To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Solla Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u398	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Mr. Almuinha. The past full asked precisely about the attention I received from the board of Galicia -- the lack of attention, rather — the service of the kitchen at the Ourense Hospital, and today, unfortunately, we have to be here moving a subject no less, but much more worrying, as in this case the loss of the parent in the Summer Hospital following the cut-off of the Pediatric Service. In the past we have already noted that the province of Ourense is probably the most neglected in health matters by the People's Party. And we've moved on to other times the difficulties that existed in connection with the lack of physiotherapists, the lack of midwives in primary care, the cuts of the comarcal hospitals and a long et cetera that culminates this week - chance or no, the mobilization was already called - with that great mobilization in which, as we said yesterday, we must congratulate not only the dignity of professionals and neighbors and the neighbors of Verín, but also that of people who have come closer to the other health areas that are at risk of having the same kind of loss of services, because of course, the data offered in relation to the issue of the number of deliveries is very similar in other health areas as that of the Barco de Valdeorras. But let's get into this question. You came here too -- in fact the BNG asked you at some relatively recent plenary -- about the issue of pediatrics in Ourense. And it was said at that time that the pediatricians weren't replaced because there wasn't, but that you were making a great effort to look for the replacements and replacements of those pediatricians. Just a couple of weeks later you deleted that square and closed the parlor. Therefore, Mr. Padre, you here today should announce your resignation because your word as Health Counsellor is absolutely worthless, Mr. Padre. Nothing! It's not worth anything! [[Applause]] You promise a number of things you don't do, but you also believe that people, the citizenship of Verín in this case, that of the province of Ourense, the Greeks and the Greeks, don't have enough maturity to understand that they're being deceived. We moved it in the morning and I know there was no area of our own. When we discussed what was going on with the EOXI, they said we were wrong when we said we were going to lose services in the comarcas hospitals, and we're seeing it now. Because the problem is not that only in Verín -- it's the biggest problem at the moment -- if you lose the parlor, is that if you lose dermatology, is that there are not enough anesthetists, is that there is no internal medicine, that there is no staff for plants, that's the general point of comarcas hospitals, because you're a government that hates rural and hates health equity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u399	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u400	It's reality, it's demonstrated by facts. He shows up with facts!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u401	Quiet, Mr. Vega. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u402	To close services is to hate the rights that citizens who live in rural areas have. You can't announce here that it's going to be the legislation of the countryside and withdraw services continuously. We also said that in yesterday's debate. Why would they bring a demo law if there's no one left who can have children when the popular party's performances are over in this regard? People go, there are fewer births, but if you withdraw services, the problem grows exponentially. People go because there are no services, if we remove them, the problem, obviously, will only fatten. That's the reality. Today we wanted to move this inquiry that we recorded a couple of weeks earlier precisely because of the difficulties that the pediatrician of the University Hospital of Ourense, of the Hospital Complex, reported that they were continually delaying pediatric consultations because there were not enough personnel to attend. The question of pediatrics has been dealt with in this House on countless occasions, and we want to know what you are doing, because the content of what you are doing is closing down services, they are doing nothing to solve the situation, nothing! And if there were problems in primary care, what we needed is that the pediatric guards of the hospitals were eliminated, or that we were already missing! This morning we hear a series of statements from the president of the board, who also repeat those of the previous days, which I think should correct, and not only because women ask them for it, because they ask them to be health professionals, because they ask the Ourense People's Party, not only for that, but because they say that this is a matter of comfort, that protests are by the comfort of women, you must have the courage to come here to state a question like this! We're talking about a problem of health equity, and a person who lives in the Mosque has to have the same rights as a person who lives in Vigo, and a person who lives in Ribadeo has to have the same rights as a person who lives in Lalin. The situation is that these rights are not being met, and they affect in this case... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u403	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u404	...to the most vulnerable people, who are children and children. What's the point of celebrating the Day of the Child and the Child, which was now 30 years old in that statement, at which time the children were understood as subjects of law, if we then withdraw their rights to quality health care? The professionals - you know that because they were gathered with them - claim the performance protocol in writing at this time, because the problem is not just that you have closed the parent, which, of course, we demand here to reopen that service again. The problem is, there's not a pediatrician either to transfer children and children to Ourense, and a newborn is not a fourteen-year-old; a newborn is not a 14-year-old or fourteen-year-old. Tell me who's going to be displaced, from the different municipalities throughout the area, when they have to travel to the hospital in Ourense or Vigo, because we remind you once again that you're still not returning to the Pediatric Surgery Service, and there may be a child or a child who has to travel 200 kilometers to go to an urgent health service. What kind of equity and juvenile rights are being offered in our country? That's why we moved this plea today, it seems to us a very serious matter. I'm very sorry to have listened to what I heard this morning, because it's also an absolutely classical speech, in which the medical professionals of the big hospital, of the city, the others are worth less; but well, the midwives are no longer worth it, because the opinion of the professionals who attend the labors, better or we don't take it into account. I think they should, frankly - I say as a recommendation, as a woman and as a health care - review that speech, because they also do very weak favor our health system. The quality of care within the neighborhood of Verín is excellent, and not only because the health care professionals say it, but because it is obviously included in the data that the Council has in relation to survival, attention to the diseases that may have newborns, the attention given to childbirth, the Apgar of all newborns born in the last few years in the center. To question that element, to treat a delivery as if it were an absolutely ephemeral element, is, of course — I think — at least not appropriate, and the speech that was given here quite classist; it wasn't even heard by the midwifes who work in the center, nor by the rest of the medical professionals who work in the center. The birth was compared to an infarction, another absolutely unfortunate comparison, and it was already told here yesterday -- I don't know if you were listening to the debate in the motions of this full-time -- and in addition to a province that has no Hemodynamic Service. By the way, the Socialist Party transferred it, we're waiting for it to be provided with a service that you committed to a law a few years ago, right? In addition, in fact, many births do not have difficulty, they are normal births that can be attended to in this parish, and when there was a complication -- a child who comes in podálica, an assessment that is made by professionals -- which requires a displacement, that displacement is already recommended. You can't justify yourself, and you can't hide behind healthcare professionals, the quality of care, which closes the parent because there's insecurity. The births at the Verin Hospital were 100 percent safe, and the professionals had enough expertise to know when a mother's shift is necessary, she has enough expertise. You tell me here if you don't trust the professionals who work in Verín, tell me if you don't trust the masters, tell me if you don't trust the gynecologist, tell me if you don't trust the pediatrician who had to retire right now. And in this regard, we've been moving to the Health Commission for a long time now that this was going to happen, and we've been at the Verín Hospital several times, because up to three times they've extended the pediatrician's retirement. It's not that the last hour they haven't found a replacement, no; it's that three times the retirement of this professional, who had to do the primary care job and the hospital guards, a person who gave his life to do this job. But the irresponsibility of not having a professional is yours, because the conditions of work — already finished — are so bad, Mr. Almuña, so bad, that you should consider...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u405	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u406	...with the representatives of the workers who are the premiums they have to give, what are the conditions to try to encourage...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u407	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u408	...that we have pediatricians, because they won't find them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u409	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. The health counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u410	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. In the health area of Ourense, and specifically in one of the districts of Ourense and Verín, we're doing a reorientation of obstetric and pediatric care, a decision backed by scientific evidence and professional criteria. A responsible decision that has as its primary objective the safety of newborn children and their mothers, and also facilitates the work of professionals. Obstetric assistance is one of the most common activities in the Greek hospitals, since it has been the birth process usually most frequent among our population. If all care activities involve risks, obstetric and pediatric care is where their minimization is particularly important, given the potential consequences that can result, both for the newborn and for the mother, as well as for the family and social environment. It is known that the descent of birth is one of the most important challenges we have to face modern societies, especially in known as the first world. This descent of birth, especially in certain areas, is causing the situation of childbirth to change completely and obliges the adoption of organizational decisions based, as I have said before, on scientific evidence and through technical reports, in which, above all, the safety of children and mothers and, of course, also the quality of service. Spain and Galicia — and, of course, Ourense's health area — are no exception to this birth certificate. Unfortunately, the County of Monterrey is very affected by this low birth, the Indian figures like that. Since 2010 the population of the region has decreased from 30,000 to 26,000, 13.6%. At the same time, women of childbearing potential — those aged between 15 and 45 — have also decreased by 26.6% since 2010, and the projection at 2025 is that it decreases by 7.45% more. This leads to a dramatic decline in births; from 147 births in 2010, around 60 this year, a decrease of almost 60%. We're talking about, for example, that in September 2019 there were two births in the hospital, and in October a birth and a cesarean section. The risks of childbirth. "Delivery is indeed a natural process, but not without risks," said a gynaecologist, Dr. Rodríguez Zambrano. Risk 1, the mean, is when one of the twenty-eight risk factors appears, which can be due from mild or moderate anemia to the suspicion of fetal malformation. At risk 0—i.e., out of this, out of these risk factors—the calculation in Verín is that there would be ten or fifteen births. Furthermore, the drop in birth is accompanied by an increase in the complexity of care for pregnancy due to such causes as the increase in maternal age — thirty-three years the average age in Galicia at the moment — multiple gestations, obesity and overweight, assisted human reproduction techniques, obstetric comorbidity and even social comorbidity, which makes a process such as pregnancy or childbirth increasingly require specialization and greater use of resources. Ultimately, the management of the newborn is more complex and with greater demands of neonatological expertise and also of technology. In fact, women with high risk pregnancy — eleven this year — are already being cared for and paired in Ourense — no incidence, by the way, and it does not seem reasonable that those with low risk have more displacement problems than those at high risk. We had to make nine transfers in 2019; children who were born in the Summer Hospital and later moved through a complication. The problem, in addition, is that in the first six months there were two, and in the next five months we took seven children to Ourense once the birth occurred. Another circumstance we are experiencing is the shortage of pediatricians at the national level, essential professionals at the time of delivery for proper attention to the newborn child. All of this led us to make the decision to attend to the births of the women of the County of Monterrey in the University Hospital Complex of Ourense; a decision based on responsibility, taking into account, rather than any other criterion, the safety of children and children and their mothers. And what were the advisors? Well, look, first of all, the health professionals in the area, the heads of service of Obstetrics and Pediatrics in this area; but, together with them, forty-four gynecologists, obstetricians and pediatricians in the health area of Ourense. Scientific societies: the Spanish Society of Neonatology, the Galician Society of Pediatrics, the International Society of Ultrasounds in Obstetricia, the Medical College of Ourenses and also the Administration, the Ministry of Health, with recommendations of Hospital Maternity, standards and recommendations, which speak of where there is a partnership as a population area of reference that generates a demand over 600 deliveries per year, except for reasons of times of displacement or accessibility that so advise, as in Galicia occurs in different places. In Verín these two circumstances coincide: a drastic drop in the number of deliveries and a distance to the reference center not exceeding forty-five minutes by bus, acceptable time to ensure adequate accessibility, comparable to other localities that already have the University Hospital of Ourense as a direct reference. At the same time, it must be noted that the Hospital de Verín has no Pediatric Service since 2006, curiously governing the Bipartite. From here, since the Health Council, we have done many actions which the honourable Member does not seem to want to remember, as we have achieved, after much effort and much insistence, that we have believed in seven more pediatric courts, and in the next call we will have twenty-seven MIRs of the first year of Pediatrics; we have expanded the retirement age, which has also greatly relieved this situation; and, of course, we continue to do OPE and stabilize our staff. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In fact, we created two interinstances at the Verín Hospital, on June 26, they were published, to which unfortunately no candidate was present to be able to occupy those two squares. [[Murmurs.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the same ones who now question a decision based on technical reports that base this decision would criticize us if we did not take the reorganisation decision with those reports. We'd rather make this decision before we have to regret irreversible consequences for a woman or her baby. We prioritize the safety of mothers, especially those of newborns, about the criticisms we are receiving. And if the distance that is established is said in many cases that is a barrier to getting to a birth in time, obviously it's not, because, of course, never a low birth of three and a half hours. As I said before, the pregnant women of high risk — who were eleven this year — are already going to Ourense without any incidence. And as for the transfer of pregnant women, delivery, delivery threats and delivery hemorrhage throughout Galicia, in 2019 there will be approximately 289 ambulances. To say gravity isn't one of the causes of that transfer. What does the Ourense Hospital have that doesn't have the one from Verín for childbirth and especially for treatment — as it said — and attention to the newborn? So an adult ICU for mothers, for example, a pediatric ICU for newborns, and consultations on subspecialties and pediatric specialties. Do pediatrics in Verín be eliminated, too? No, no, no, no. In Verín, as I said earlier, there is no Pediatric Service, therefore, the attention to children, in that case, were done well from primary pediatricians, either in the CAP, or through the Emergency Service, who have training, of course, to review, to care for children. Within the Family Physician residency Training Program there is a rotation by pediatric services, so that's not the case. I asked by queue. The data on June 30 was some data I think very good, with a wait in the 36.9-day pediatric surgery and a delay of first pediatric consultation at the 7.2-day hospital; or, as we also said, consultations and surgeries all conducted in a period of less than three months. This data, of course, could have some variation these last few weeks because of the difficulties we have had — as it was said and defended here before — in the sub-specialization consultations at Ourense Hospital. Until October we had 1,676 revenues, 12,800 consultations and 125 interventions. I want to make it very clear, in addition, that the pediatric care and primary care of all the municipalities in this area have three pediatricians who are attending these children, which gives...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u411	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u412	...seven hundred twelve children per pediatrician, of course, a ratio of the best we have in Galicia. The comarcal hospitals are not in question, they're doing a great job. It is a concrete decision, in the face of a specific situation, based on reports from medical officials who pay attention in this area...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u413	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u414	...in order to protect the health of the citizens of the region of Monterrey. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u415	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Solla Fernández has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u416	Thank you, President. Answer me a question, Mr. Almuña. Do you really believe that withdrawing the parishioner and services from the Summer Hospital will be born more children and children? Answer me even if that's the only question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u417	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u418	Because, indeed, we agree, there is a reduction in childbirth, but that reduction in births will not improve if you take out services; in any case, that situation can get worse. What's going on here is that you're designing services for the population around AP-9. The rest of the provinces, the rest of the municipalities, the rest of the Greeks and the Greeks don't even have the chance to protest; because if you tell them they're comfortable, there are problems because people stop later, because there's obesity... please! The data on the table, Mr. Almuña, indicates no risk. And I ask you, please -- and I dare you to do it -- to leave me up here or to move me to the scene, report on the data that you say exists and that they appreciate the closure of the parlor. Because it doesn't exist, Mr. Padre! There's no scientific evidence. [[Applause]] You read here the same article as me from that manual, from that hospital maternity guide, which you use to hide. In fact, there is one element that is the distance, the isochrons. There's no right to withdraw this service, it's a real barbarity! Don't you realize? Don't you realize?Oh, my God! Of course, less than a month ago, the service wasn't going to be deleted, how are we going to believe it? Less than a month ago they were going to look for pediatricians for Verín and, I remember, for Valdeorras, who have the same problem, Mr Almuña. And now we're here, less than a month later, having to assume — it seems — that you are happily closing down services without any scientific evidence. Which professionals are the ones who recommend it to them? Your head of service in Ourense! Which Verin professionals did you speak to recommend that they close their service? Do you still want to talk about Left One? [[Murmurs.]] Come here and talk! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u419	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u420	Then we talk when we're done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u421	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u422	What professionals?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u423	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u424	What maesters did they recommend? They told him there was a risk...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u425	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u426	...in the births that were taking place in the hospital in Verín? Look, the College of Nursing transferred a note of refusal from all the provinces where they say something very interesting and you should listen, Mr. Almuña, in relation to the displacements. The low-risk births that are now being done in Verín come to be in Ourense, and implies that directly this pregnancy becomes risky. There's a shift, and, no, births can't be prevented. You can orient your likely date of birth, which is the calculation of the midwives, nurses, nurses, gynecologists and obstetricians, but you can't put on: you're going to give birth this day, unless you're thinking about instrumentalizing more of the births. This country has taken many years to reduce the number of cesareans, and we're still on top of the recommendation. But there's still a very high number of instrumentalization in childbirth, and in fact, the Verín Hospital was preparing to implement the same protocols as the Salnés Hospital to be a friendly hospital for children and children with respected births. There is a guide — she can also read — from the ministry about respected childbirth, Mr. Almuña. So what happens -- and so they move it -- is that you force that mother who doesn't know what day and what time she's going to start doing a transfer, which may be an hour, which may be hour and a half, and if there's bad time it can be two hours. You don't know, and you can't anticipate here that no child or child will be born along the way. And even if it was, you have no right to withdraw this service, you have no right to withdraw this service! If you take out, as you said here, two squares and leave vacant, maybe instead of closing the service you should wonder why no pediatrician wants to take up that job. What are the working conditions? What's the precariousness? What's the professional promotion? What's the training? It's your job, Mr. Padre! We have almost consumed legislation and have not addressed any effective or real measures to address the problem of pediatrics in our country. Let's say this in the morning, to the coming government, and whatever comes from what's coming, it's going to be a very serious problem to supply what it meant five years ago amortizing squares, applying the replacement rates and applying some working conditions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u427	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u428	...that only depends on you, absolutely sorry, that makes people go away...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u429	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u430	...because he needs to reconcile his family and work.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u431	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u432	They solve the problem. Open the parlor. Rectify, we're on time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u433	Thank you very much. Your time is up. [[Applause]] The health counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u434	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is, it's funny to come here to talk about quality of health care, especially for pregnant women and children, and to hear words like hate, to hear that there is hatred in the decisions that the Government of the People's Party makes. He said that the new government will come to solve this problem, but — I don't know whether or not the honourable Member knows — the case is that the former bipartisan government was what ended with the Pediatric Service at the Hospital de Verín. That's the reality. That's the reality. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u435	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u436	I know it bothers reality, but you have to say it from time to time. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It speaks of the transfer of neonates from Verín to Ourense as a problem, but the idea, Mrs Solla, is to prevent the transfer of neonates, which, of course, is a bad condition of assistance. Our idea, of course, is not an invention, it's not that we want to do this to bother anyone, but simply because we listen to health professionals, those who know about the situation. I know you may know more than they do, but we trust them a lot. And, look, it doesn't speak a gynecologist, or an obstetrician, or a pediatrician from Ourense capital, who seems to be bad, but the president of the College of Doctors of Ourense says: It's a management decision based on reports. I hope all Sergas decisions will be based on professional criteria. I don't think it's doubtful since you've been with the government. The chief of the Xynecology Service, who has a great experience, a lot of experience, in the field of obstetrics and xinecology, says: The closing of the neighborhood of Verín is to serve with guarantees to the newborn. Why? Because the attention to the newborn is not only that there is a neonatologist pediatrician, but that there is also a multidisciplinary team, a technology around it, and of course at this moment it can be given because we have it at Ourense hospital. And as you well know, even in the province of Pontevedra there are places far away from a hospital with these characteristics that it has. It's true that there's some national politician who says he's in solidarity with Verín, but then he chooses a large hospital with a neonate unit. That's always talking about talking, demagogy after demagogy. Not us, we put forward what citizens need. [[Murmurs.]] All of this is a profound process, with an impact, especially given the reasonable, the reports that exist, the reports that you say do not exist. Here are reports, the reports that lead to this decision are here, we haven't invented anything. And, of course, it was communicated to all those involved, to the professionals at the Verín Hospital, to the staff meeting, to the pregnant women, at a sad meeting that was blown up by some politician who was there, in that room, and would not let the professionals talk to explain that situation. I also came to Ourense last Monday to explain this situation and to listen to professionals who gave their views.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u437	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u438	I am, of course, a great defender of the professionals we have throughout the health system. This is a matter of time for a particular moment. It was a very difficult decision we had to make because, in the face of the safety of pregnant women and newborns, we're not going to be there. And in conclusion to all this, I don't speak of hatred, I don't say the opposition deals with this with hatred, but of course the government doesn't either. They're not discussing for anything the comarcas hospitals or the extraordinary professionals who day by day do a great job, nor, of course, is the future of the Verín Hospital, where we have short, medium and long-term projects. He spoke of the project president who has approved the space plan and the functional plan of the new emergency in this hospital. This is a concrete measure in the face of a specific situation. I want to thank all the professionals in the Verin district for their daily work to improve the quality of life of the neighbors. I also want to thank all those professionals who, against wind and tide, are defending the position they consider to be the professionally acceptable one, which gives patients security. Because the hypocratic oath leads us to that, defending the lives of our patients,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u439	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u440	...to improve that quality of life. Of course, I also want to ask for understanding of the population because of the disturbances that can be caused in this process...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u441	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u442	...but I want to tell you that the only purpose of this decision is to ensure the safety of local citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u443	Thank you very much, Counselor. We move on to the next item on the agenda, the questions to the Government. Question by Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the predictions of the Galician Union regarding the need for a new declaration of environmental impact to the company responsible for the construction of the wind park of the Iribio greenhouse
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u444	You have the floor, to put the question, Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u445	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Good afternoon, Counselor. We asked him today, as he was well told, for the construction of the wind farm in the Iribio saw. Contexting quickly, you know this case and today it's gone along the whole. We're talking about a project that started its processing in 2004, which has an environmental impact statement approved in 2005 -- that is, fourteen years ago -- authorized in 2007 and 2009, but that the incumbent company decided not to build for a decade. In 2018, he presented a modification project to install fewer aerogeers, but of greater size and power, which he counted on the visa and pleasure of the Galician board because it was -- they said -- a non-substantial modification. The works began this year 2019 in a natural space like the Iribio saw, which today counts with the highest environmental and landscape protection, and since 2014 space is the Natura Network. Since 2009 — you already know — the Law of the wind sector expressly prohibits the construction of wind farms in spaces of the Natura Network, just like the Master Plan of the Natura 2000 Network. In the light of the complaints made by the Platform Salvemos o Iribio, the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia decided to suspend the agreement of the Council of June 2019 until the environmental impact declaration adopted in 2005 was updated, i.e. - we insist - fourteen years ago. It's a firm decision, about which there is no longer any recourse, and the court, in addition, is very concise and very clear in its decision. He literally says to the court: "You can't talk about reconstitution of an unexecuted project. The environmental impact declaration establishes conditions that are not met by height, sweep diameter and location of air carriers at the highest altitude points, so its update is essential to protect the values existing in the territory, mostly by the legislative changes in the protection of landscape, nature, fauna and flora. Regulatory changes - and I quote literally the decision of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia - that leave the declaration of obsolete environmental impact." That's why we ask you, Counselor, which is what the Galician Board is going to do, if you're going to issue a new environmental impact statement as claimed by the Galician High Court of Justice. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u446	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. Mrs. Vázquez Mejuto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u447	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Rodil, the answer to this question is clear and concise: The vigency and legality of an environmental impact declaration is marked by environmental legislation, Law 21/2013, December 9 and I have moved to your reading. "Environmental impact declarations published prior to the entry into force of this law will lose their vigil and cease to produce their own effects if they have not begun the execution of projects or activities within a maximum of six years since the entry into force of this law, i.e. December 2019." The execution of this wind park started earlier than December 2019, so the environmental impact declaration cannot be considered to be expired by technicians. Here we must not mix caution with firm judgment. What's a warden, there's no firm judgment. I'm glad you made a report on when you made the environmental statement of this Iribio wind farm, which was published in 2005, I'm glad, because if you don't give the impression that it's the People's Party who decides to make environmental statements or who decides to grant authorisations without more, but it turns out that when you've been ruling, you had to make the environmental statement, you had to give the corresponding authorization, and what the environmental council technicians do, and not only environmental advisors, but the rest of the technicians of the different councils, is to comply with the law, only and exclusively, as I have just read the paragraph. [[Murmurs.]] There's no interpretation possible. What we're talking about is that the park had to be started -- as I just read -- before December 2019, and that was it. So the conclusion is that the wind farm project authorized on its day by its group, when they ruled in the Union, is in full vigil, which is why the Galician Union has resorted, and we are waiting for a firm judgment on it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In fact, we're talking about precautionary measures, not firm judgments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u448	Quiet. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u449	Let's not fool people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u450	Quiet, you're talking to the advisor. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u451	Having said this, what is quite true is that in January 2018 the promoter applied for permission for a change that technicians consider to be non-substantial. And they don't consider it substantial because, even though...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u452	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u453	...you speak of repotencing, it's true that the landscape level...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u454	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u455	...the natural heritage level, as they considered it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u456	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u457	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u458	You have the word, for the reply, Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u459	Let's see. I read you literally, because I don't know if you think we're idiots. I really think there are times when I think they're taking us all for fools. To reject the remedy lodged against the Auto estimated on 16 October 2019. Against this resolution...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u460	Quiet. Quiet. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u461	...no appeal can be brought. There is no appeal against the present resolution. And what the High Court of Justice of Galicia demands...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u462	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u463	...to be able to continue the project to build the wind farm in the Iribio greenhouse is to update that environmental impact statement, which is obsolete, and I quote literally to the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, because it says, "There were in fourteen years, indeed, legal changes that protected the Iribio saw, with a maximum degree of environmental protection such as the Natura 2000 Network space." [[Applause]] And the question is simple, what are you going to do at this point? Will a new environmental impact statement be required for this new project as requested by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia or not? It doesn't surprise me, and you did well to emphasize it very much, they had to start the works before December 2019, actually. They found out they did it without all the proper regulations, to the point that you had to stop the works because they entered the machete without the corresponding authorizations and licenses. I repeat the question: Will a new environmental impact statement be made as claimed by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia? And I'll tell you something, too. I hardly dare, and I put my hand on the fire, which with the law in my hand today there is no declaration of environmental impact that considers that legal wind farm where it is. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u464	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. Mrs Vázquez Mejuto speaks for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u465	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Precautions are what we must be, Mrs. Rodil, before the decision of the High Court of Justice of Galicia which rejects the lifting of the precautionary measure, since it has not yet reached a judgment on whether the route is expired or not. Anyway, I have to tell you that the government will respect and abide by the decision to make justice, I would miss more! We, when we have to paralyze, paralyze. It seems that for one thing there's nothing else left, but for others it turns out we don't have to. [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u466	Silence! She's talking to the advisor. Mr. Sánchez, be quiet. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u467	It's a lot of attention that you chose -- because they had to do so, when they were ruling with the Bipartite -- for giving the relevant authorizations, and now they're screaming in the sky when a non-substantial change is requested, because that's what the technical reports, Mrs. Rodil. And if it were the other way around, I'd say so too. Therefore, cautions, cautions, and differences between firm and cautious judgments. I would like to point out that the environmental impact assessment carried out and the subsequent modifications evaluated of the project were considered compatible with the environmental values, and so reflect the reports of the different technicians, which some of them were at the time of the Bipartite because they did not retire, continue at their own posts. They couldn't say one thing and the opposite, above all, when there is an environmental impact statement that is marked by environmental legislation, Mr. Sánchez, Law 21/2013, of December 9. We will continue and abide by the judicial decisions, Mrs. Rodil - I was not going wrong - unlike you, who can say one thing and the opposite; when they are interested, they will, and when they don't, not. The relevant remedy is presented and, when the judgment is delivered, this government shall act on its behalf. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u468	Thank you very much, Counselor. Quiet, please! Question by Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Mr José Manuel Pérez Seco of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the evaluation of the xunta de Galicia regarding the fulfilment of the temporal horizon established between the years 2015 and 2017 for the end of the action called VAP Costa Norte, truces A Coruña and the rest of the truces, provided for in the programme of high-performance pathways
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u469	To put the question, Mr. Pérez Seco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u470	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Let's go to the end of this legislation. Next year 2020 will be the last in which the current Infrastructure and Mobility Council has the responsibility to dynamize actions related to the road infrastructures of our community, but today I come to ask you about the construction of the pending sections of the North Coast VAP; a project by which Mr. Feijóo's current government never betted. The construction of this channel of communication would serve to vertebrate and improve the mobility and competitiveness of the neighbors and neighbors of the Ortegal district and of the Navy region. This is what Mr. Cuña Crespo said when the construction of this channel was announced in 2001. Later, Mr. Feijóo's government designed the 2009-20015 Strategic Road Management and Mobility Plan, more known as the MOVE Plan. It is a plan with good intentions, for example, to contribute to the improvement of the competitiveness of the economy and the well-being of citizens; to improve the conditions of accessibility and mobility of people, ensuring access of population and commodities to transport infrastructures with an equitable, universal and global character; to achieve sustainable mobility. But we're seeing that this good intention just remained in a good intention of advertising and propaganda, if not, Counselor, ask the neighbours and neighbours of these two districts. [[Applause]] In 2001, a Government of the People's Party, no less than 18 years ago, announces the construction of this high-capacity road; an infrastructure that will have as potential beneficiaries, directly or indirectly, to more than 300 thousand people. Not only will mobility of people benefit from the work, but also the mobility of goods from all the productive tissue located in these regions; among others, the fisheries sector, forestry, mining industry, textiles, food, tourism, etc. would benefit from this infrastructure. As stated earlier, the Government of the People's Party and Mr. Feijóo did nothing to advance the works, they did not expropriate a single meter of land for the construction of these pending sections. You have designed the MOVE Plan about the commitment that existed, according to the Government of Galicia's Board of Governors, to drive all the new construction and running routes of highways or, if so, of unbreakable routes of traffic to turn them into highways when traffic so demanded and get 80% of Galicia's population to be less than ten minutes away from a VAP, a situation that is not met in these districts, as you well know. It is also true that within the existing planning of the MOVE Plan...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u471	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u472	...figures the VAP North Coast, the truces The Crown and the rest of the truces, with a length of approximately 67 kilometers and a budget of just a little more...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u473	Thank you very much. In the next one you can continue. Thank you very much, Mr. Pérez Seco. The advisor for Infrastructure and Mobility, Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u474	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Pérez Seco, do you know what is the biggest failure in infrastructure? Abel Caballero's when he was Minister of Transport, saying AVE to Galicia would arrive in 1993. With this plan, which was certainly impossible, he stayed in Valladolid, stopped at Valladolid. [[Applause]] There is a rosary of the socialist governments' infrastructures, even some of the present. [[Applause]] And with that rosary of defaults, you've got chiton, of course, which is what you do. [[Applause]] I'll tell you again what I told your partner recently, I think you have to put things in their context. You know that in recent years two exceptional circumstances have happened, basically, not propaganda as you say, exceptional circumstances. A very important economic crisis that, of course, as responsible public administration, we suffered and we had to work hard, concentrating our efforts on essential services such as health and education; I hope that this does not call it propaganda, focusing on efforts when there is an economic crisis in health and education. And also that $3.9 billion mortgage that left the Socialist Party in terms of concessions in the Galician Infrastructure Agency, in the Territorial Policy Council, which they left duty, because the Socialist Party's motto is: I invite you and you pay, and of course, that is advertising and propaganda. In any case, we had to design ways of making the infrastructure viable through budget and through phases, doing so with objective criteria of social profitability and road safety. Even so, in the midst of the economic crisis, we have increased the high-performance pathways by 70%. We have certainly pushed the high-performance route VAP North Coast, and let me remind you that who made the variant of Ortigueira was this Government, and also the high-performance route in Celeiro-San Cibrao. It was this government in the toughest years, 100 million euros, 16 kilometers of high-performance routes on the North Coast VAP. And you were not able in the Bipartite, when they had four times more budget to do works; they did nothing, not a mile from the high-performance track. We've developed a strategy to make and ensure the viability of these actions. We agreed with the mayors to continue through the stress, and so we're working, at the extremes. In the Coruña area, in the San Sadurniño-Sanguineira project, and in the Navy they shined, with a new bridge over the river of Viveiro; 1.7 kilometers from a new bridge to solve with the slightest affection. You ask the Government of Livestock not to block this performance too, because you blocked the variant of Livestock, so we couldn't do it. In any case, it's a lot of questions. Even if the Socialist Party doesn't want, like the mayor of Ferrol, who doesn't want us to do the intermodal, we'll continue to invest.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u475	Thank you very much. For the reply, Mr. Pérez Seco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u476	Thank you, President. Counsellor, I think in the case of AVE everyone has more or less guilt. Mr. Aznar is also guilty, because I think the People's Party also ruled, he promised, and the AVE did not arrive when he ruled the PP. We agree that we had an economic crisis, but they could go and prepare environmental impact projects and studies to, when that economic crisis happened, be able to bid the tranches and go slowly. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It was Mr. Pérez Touriño's government—so the two-party government that you so much like to talk about—who has sued those two steps that are set in motion and which Mr. Feijó only inaugurated. What you have to tell the neighbors and neighbors of the Ortegal and Navy districts is what the real prediction of the Galician Union is to continue with the pending steps of the North Coast VAP, and not to come to talk about the intermodal railway station. Counsellor, if you think you'll be pleased with the neighbors and neighbors -- especially from Ortegal -- with the arrangements that are promised for AC-862 and AC-566 -- by the way, welcome, because that's what Mr. Feijó was already asking when he was a advisor to Territorial Policy and Public Works, and at least we see that after so many years it's something that they're going to fulfill with the Ortegal district, a region that Mr. Feijó's government has totally abandoned. Counsellor, from here I ask you to stop fooling the neighbors and neighbors of the Ortegal and the Lucense Marines and to put themselves to serious work in the construction of the pending sections of the North Coast VAP. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u477	Thank you very much, Mr. Pérez Seco. For the Government's reply, you have the floor of the Infrastructure and Mobility Advisor, Mrs Vázquez Mourelle.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u478	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm going to explain what we're going to do, what we're doing about roads and what you, by the way, miss. I don't think they care. Here they come concealing that they care about the roads, but they don't mind them very much. Here are the fireflies that the Socialist Party does not fix in its municipalities: the Lugo fireflies, the Ferrol fireflies, also the fireflies in the Coruña, the ones on the periphery here in Santiago. The Ministry of Development and the Socialist Party, therefore, can't fix fireflies and ask for high-capacity pathways when they can't fix fireflies. [[Applause]] And also the amendments to the 2020 budgets, which I look at and I read them, those amendments that you proposed to remove 28 million euros in road conservation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u479	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u480	...and also nearly 21 million euros, taking away millions of euros in the budget concept where I was on the North Coast. You should rub a little bit, I think. In any case, of course, they can't fix fireflies and ask for high-capacity pathways. I believe that the Government of Sánchez's commitment to the regions of Ferrolterra, Ortegal and the Navy was what should concern you, because the Government of Sánchez's commitment to the Socialist Party in Madrid is to put an end to Ferrolterra, Ortegal and the Navy. It's to finish and undo, if not, ask the workers of Endesa and Alcoa. We're going to work, even at the level of your party, with that corrupt minister who said that The Bridges were in Lugo, which is also significant of concern. We are going to work with the high-capacity VAP North Coast, because it's as necessary as ambitious that performance and we're going to work. [[Applause]] We have EUR 4.4 million in the 2020 budget that you wanted to amend and remove. We continue with that investment and we will advance at the extremes with the San Sadurniño-Sanguineira project and also with the new bridge of Viveiro. But the high-performance route North Coast must not be the only support for improving competitiveness in Ferrolterra, Ortegal and The Navy. We have real, viable planning — as we know it, we have examples — to continue moving forward in the short and medium term on roads, on mobility, on safety. There's the road Viveiro-Capreiros, 540, we've already called for the constructive project to improve it. On the road The Barqueiro-Porto de Bares, C-100, we invested in it. And, of course, the conditioning and improvement of the Valdovino-Cedeira road, the C-533 road, the improvement of the C-862 road between San Sadurniño and Ponte Mera, which is the first phase, 12.6 million euros. We will bid these actions at the beginning of 2020 because they are important, improving and expanding the footwear and rectifying curves. And not only did we put 16 kilometers and 100 million euros into service, but we'll continue. So if they're worried about Ferrolterra, Ortegal and the Navy, I think they should be concerned about what the Socialist Party governments do. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u481	Thank you, Counselor. We're still on the agenda. Question by Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and four other Members of the G.P. Joint Left Group on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece to ensure the future of the United States company in Ourense with the current staff framework
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u482	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u483	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. We regret having to bring back the dramatic situation that the telemarketing workers are experiencing in our country, and today we have asked you today by the 130 workers in the United States of Ourense, who have been trying to listen to them for months, but we also have very much to say, of course, the Extel da Coruña workers, subcontracted by Movistar, who, as you know, are being fired for illness thanks to their work reforms. All this happens because you've been behind the telemarketing sector for a long time, a tremendously precarious sector, where workers live with constant uncertainty, afraid of being fired, without the administration doing anything at all. And even though they repeat over and over again the mantra that workers hear, the truth is they don't prove it by their actions. In the case of the United States they arrive too late, too late, because the workers have been warning you for months. In this Parliament we have discussed this issue on many occasions, about the risk of relocation of the customer service in Naturgy to countries such as Colombia or Catalonia. You denied, systematically said that this would not happen, that jobs would be kept, and you didn't even do something as simple as opening a mediation paper between the United States, the electrician and the workers; a negotiating table to discuss the matter. They refused, said nothing happened and they couldn't do anything. They continue to lie now that this relocation is already a reality, because in the last plenary, in another question on this issue, you said that the Union has transferred its inconformity with this decision to Naturgy. I wonder if this supposed inconformity is real, because they say they're incompatible with this decision but days later they give this same company a million-dollar contract; it gives more than a hundred million euros to a company they're supposed to take some kind of measure, a company that's destroying jobs in our country. Because today we're talking about these 130 people, but already other potential workers have been fired, they know perfectly well, even though they also deny it. And this isn't just an attack on the workers in Ourense, it's an attack on the whole of Galician and Galician, because we're talking about a company that's wasting our natural resources and that you're giving them money without putting any kind of condition that generates quality jobs, that it keeps the job in our country, the same thing that happened, for example, with another company in the sector like R can be. And it's also an attack because these decisions are making it difficult and all users' right to be treated in our own language will not be exercised. I wonder if you're satisfied with your balance sheet, the balance of turning our country into an industrial desert. I wonder if you're going to have a minimum of empathy and what you're going to do to keep these jobs and these working conditions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u484	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. The Councillor for Economics, Employment and Industry has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u485	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Quinteiro, the truth is you're wrong about verbal and verb time. Word time is wrong because the question is not what we're going to ask, you should know what we're doing from the very first moment. First, being with the workers, being in mediation with the United States company and, above all, fulfilling the agreement of this Parliament. And he's wrong about speech. You shouldn't use the verb to lie about this government, you should be much more careful and probably come a little more informed. If it were, I would probably not use that kind of verb, Mrs. Quinteiro. [[Applause]] In any case, if I may transfer to you that this Government, from the very first moment, has carried out all its work of mediation and attention to all the parties involved. We have held more than fifteen meetings linked to the United States situation, with multiple contacts with all the parties involved, always trying to work to safeguard employment and, above all, to address the future of the telemarketing sector with guarantees. Therefore, Mrs. Quinteiro, when you come here to say that this Government has come late, or simply that this Government has done nothing, you should be much more rigorous not only in the use of verbal times, but also in the use of the verb itself. Even within these meetings is being held with GSS, which, as you know, is the new owner of the United Nations Centre in San Cibrao, and at that meeting the company transferred its new project and the willingness to renew the situation caused by the abandonment of Naturgy, therefore seeking new contracts and new opportunities. Secondly, we are also fulfilling this Parliament's mandate with the development of the study on the situation of the sector, together with the University of Santiago, precisely to know the current situation and to define all alternatives to support the sector. And with regard to Naturgy, Mrs. Quinteiro, I will not hide our disappointment with Naturgy from the Greeks and the Greeks, I will not hide it from them, and we have already transferred our total inconsistencies to them in this matter. First of all, because your decision implies forgetting your commitment to Galicia, and secondly, because the decision has nothing to do with the competitiveness and quality of the service provided in Galicia. So we understand that the company has no objective arguments to justify the decisions it is making. I would ask you, instead of coming here trying to make politics with the workers of the United States, to come and find solutions. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u486	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, Mrs. Quinteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u487	Look, Counselor, your commitments haven't been seen, and all you're supposed to be doing isn't seeing us, is that the workers don't see him. He says they're very disappointed in Naturgy and stay here very emotional. They're disappointed, but they give you over a hundred and seventy million euros in a millionaire contract and they don't put a single condition for them to maintain the burden and quality of work in our country. Tell me about it. They actually take part in Naturgy because they're giving him money. Then they didn't do anything, and I reaffirm again what they lied about because you denied if you were going to give the relocation. They have been denied in this Parliament, and there is the hemerotheque. Once it became clear, when the service was relocated, Junta says she did everything she could to avoid it, but in this very Parliament you refused to convene the table with the three parties. He says he spoke at more than fifteen meetings, but not once did he have the meeting he had to be, which was between Naturgy, the United States and the workers. They had unilateral meetings, but they didn't convene a table that really solved the problem. I don't know what they did, but the consequences have come. As of today, 41 workers have already seen a reduction in their daily lives and 27 workers - from 130 workers - without a workload, and 130 workers as a whole continue to fear, uncertainty and no clear response from the Galician Union. And today's answer, Counselor, won't leave them any quieter. He's talking about GSS, they've got a meeting and there's a will. But what is the will? How does the will come into being? It's just that we don't need will, we need real commitments, because will and false speeches, when they came here repeating again and again that the problem of relocation wouldn't happen and that they were going to press on Naturgy, we saw how they ended up. Now the same thing, there's a desire that GSS... No, no, there's got to be a firm commitment, and the Galician board has to say is that it's going to guarantee itself or whether jobs and the quality of employment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u488	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. For the answer, the economic, employment and industry advisor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u489	Mrs. Quinteiro, I'm sorry you don't know how to use the verbs. I'm deeply sorry, because it's not just a linguistic problem anymore, but it's also a matter of knowledge of the right itself. In any case, the workers of the United States, Mrs Quinteiro, know perfectly well that the Government has always told them the truth, always, directly and in this Parliament, and we always act with the truth ahead. [[Murmurs.]] What I regret is your lack of commercial law, labour law and administrative law, and to come and talk to Parliament about the situation of workers and how you can achieve these solutions, I think it would be good for you to remember the rules that we are all obliged to comply with. This is not Venezuela, Mrs Quinteiro, this is Spain, this is Spain! We have rules here, we have to comply with them, and I hope you're not asking this government to prevarice. I hope you don't ask this government. You know that from the point of view of regulation... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u490	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u491	...of labor legislation, we're talking about telemarketing being ruled by state legislation, you know it perfectly well. So when legislation on data protection is being considered, that state jurisdiction is in no way autonomous. You know that this administration, the autonomous administration, has to comply with the Public Sector Contracts Act, and you know that this law is state, so you know that we cannot stop cutting contracts, Mrs. Quinteiro, confuses, confuses. This government has to comply with the Public Sector Contracts Act, therefore, we cannot fail to award contracts nor can we terminate any kind of contract at all, Mrs Quinteiro. This is not Venezuela -- I insist -- this is Spain. We have to comply with state legislation, and so on. But the Union, of course, will continue with total force in defending the interests of the Greeks. With regard to Naturgy, I remind you that the Galego Institute of Consumption and Competition has opened 2,800 files since 2012, and 83% of these files are sanctions against Naturgy, more than 20 million euros, Mrs Quinteiro. This government has only one reference, which is the Greeks and the Greeks and the defense of their interests, and in this case the defence of the interests of GSS workers. What this government is going to do is defend its rights by fulfilling the law, and don't ask this government, please, to prevarice. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u492	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other G.P. Members of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the actions planned by the Government of Greece for the development of a plan for the future to ensure jobs, labour rights and activity on shipyards and auxiliary companies of the Vigo River
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u493	To put the question, Mr. Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u494	Good afternoon, Counselor. We've come here to convey to him and bring him the extreme concern that the company committee, the workers and the auxiliary industries of the Vigo naval are living in because of the critical situation that two historic shipyards like Vulcan and Barreras are going through, in a context, in addition, of industrial dismantling in the Vigo district and throughout Galicia. The truth is, we have to recognize that the situation on these floors is demonized, even if it's not by chance, it's not raining from the sky. You, the German Government, have a lot of responsibility in this situation. They have a responsibility in the Vulcan crisis for their inaction, because you have deceived and abandoned Vulcan workers and are now holding the poles in the wheels that are putting Mr. President of the Port Authority of Vigo for a possible solution. And they also have responsibility in the Barreras crisis because Barreras' problems didn't start yesterday, they didn't even start this year, but you created the problem with Operation Pemex, which was going to be a historic opportunity and a strategic alliance; you created the problem with the lies and deceptions of Pemex, with Pemex corruption, which is now popping into their faces. And I remind you that the Pemex operation has been sponsored by you and Mr. Fexóo. You, by the way, have also sponsored Mr. García Costa, a prominent militant of the People's Party, to bring the ship to the stones, to this situation where there are 200 unemployed workers and 30 companies and more than 1,000 jobs in the picota. Now we're with another operation, the Ritz operation, with the bottom of the Oaktree voyeur, also sponsored by you when Miami went looking for these partners to Barreras; by the way, on that interrupted trip. And in this operation there are again many shadows and many risks, because there is the suspicion founded by many people that the only thing the Americans are looking for and these companies are solving their problem, doing it with public aid and adjusting costs; the costs of the working party, as we know they operate these Voitre funds. We are very concerned about the lack of transparency and we are also very concerned about your statements on Monday, in which you said you didn't know anything about the data of this agreement that you just announced, and it's serious that the Greek Government is out of this agreement. That's why, Counsellor, we believe that there must be a future solution for these companies and we want you to tell us whether you are committed to transparency, why there is a table where all the parties are involved to look for a future solution for both the workers and the assistants. We want to know if you're betting on...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u495	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u496	...public intervention and a naval repair centre in the Vigo River, which would be a future solution for this sector.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u497	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u498	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Bará, the truth is that it is surprising the obsession the Galician Nationalist Block has with the People's Party. It's a real obsession. And that obsession, Mr Bará, prevents you from addressing -- and surely the deslective -- issues of such importance as the situation of a strategic sector like the naval sector. You can't come here trying to transfer responsibilities to the Government of matters that aren't your responsibility, among them, to manage private shipyards. If you're already leaving to try to transfer these kinds of responsibilities, you're just wrong. I am very concerned that you are constantly using the status of the naval sector to destabilize the naval sector itself, and so, Mr Bará, we do not make a country. The naval sector is proving its good doing, it's betting on innovation, industry 4.0, diversification, training, and we have a perfectly competitive naval sector. If you come here to try to destabilize the naval sector, the only thing you do is to detach once again the Nationalist Block of Galicia. The Galician Union, of course, will not enter that game. The Galician Union will continue to prestigious the shipbuilding industry and will continue to defend the condition of shipyards. Our commitment is maximum, we have proved it. We show it when at the most complicated time socialist commissioner Joaquín Almunia questioned the sector through the tax file read. Now that there's a growth stage, what doesn't seem reasonable is that from the opposition you're trying to damage the naval sector, because that's what you're trying to do. The Galician Union will continue next to the naval sector and propose solutions. We proposed solutions to the problem of tax read; we proposed solutions to the search for workload. I remind you that Barreras had no workload, and who brought the burden of work to Barreras was this government; what the Government did not did was manage the yard. We proposed solutions for Vulcan as well. We proposed solutions not only in 2012, saving the situation of the competition, but in 2017, giving you funding to finish the ferry, but this government does not manage shipyards, Mr Bará. Therefore, the Government will continue to ensure the continuity and momentum of the naval sector in the Vigo River; we will continue to work to defend the situation of Barreras, the situation of Vulcano and, above all, Mr Bará, to defend the situation of the auxiliary industry, so we have established a line of aid and loans to be with the auxiliary industry and the shipbuilding industry. We'll keep working, and I hope the Galician Nationalist Block will leave this pollination against the naval sector. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u499	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Bará Torres has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u500	Counselor, do you know what our obsession is? Our obsession is to give the hammer the times it takes to defend the naval sector of the Vigo River, to make proposals to defend the naval sector of the Vigo River, as we did in 2008 with the naval repair center of the Vigo River, center, by the way, that you have closed with seven keys, kept in a drawer and boycotted for ten years, and is now being claimed by the auxiliary industries. [[Applause]] Those were the proposals you put on the table by the BNG. Do you know who despised the naval sector of the Vigo River and the Welsh naval sector, Mr. Conde? The ships that go from crochet to corrupt entrepreneurs like those of Pemex, like you were, brought here that bug, that cancer. [[Applause]] Those are the ones who despised the ship. You say they don't manage the yards, but they did manage these partners, the partners of Pemex and now the partners of Ritz who looked for you in Miami when they were there, and they assumed that. They're speculative partners, Voitre funds that come here to take the money and leave; they're not entrepreneurs in this country, nor are they companies that have the decision-making centre here. That's why we tell them that the Board has to intervene, there has to be a public intervention, and it wouldn't be the first time it's done. Public intervention to guarantee jobs and quality jobs, jobs with rights, not what is happening now and what has been going on in the naval sector of Vigo. And that's why we make clear proposals to them. We want public intervention from the Galician Union - and if we need the state, too - from the hands of the companies and the hand of the auxiliary industry, to go ahead with a proposal for the future for Barreras, and also a public intervention to get that ship repair centre forward which would be a guarantee of the future for the naval sector, for the companies of the Vigo River naval.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u501	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. You have the floor, for the Government's reply, the Economic, Employment and Industry Counsellor, Mr. Conde López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u502	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Bará, I'm sorry they don't bring realistic proposals here. The Barreras and Vulcan workers, and the auxiliary industry workers, won't thank them. If you come here with a proposal to nationalize Barriers, you know that this is simply contemporary and you know perfectly well that this will not give solutions to the Barriers workers, Vulcan workers, or the auxiliary industry itself. You just come up with a proposal for more spending so that the Greeks and the Greeks have to take on subsidiary aspects that do not matter to them. So the solution doesn't go through nationalization in any case. He knows, and he wants you and his group to fool the workers. Barriers. It's not about finishing up a certain ship and then thinking about what to do, Mr Bará, it's not about that. And Galician Union won't participate in that game. The Galician Union will be part of the solution to the future of Barriers whenever there is a solution that includes workers and which includes a solution for the auxiliary industry. That's where the Galician Union will be. The Galician Union, from the very first moment, is working with the ministry, is working with Cesce, who knows he has guarantees for 130 million euros, and is working with Pymar. And we're working together all the administrations precisely to give Barriers a future solution. So, to come here to try to sow doubts about the role of the Administration, it is sincerely to ignore the reality and what this government is doing. Today, the Government was gathered with the ministry, met with Pymar, met with Cesce, met with Ritz-Carlton and met with Havila. So this government is working to find that solution, a balancing solution in which the shipowners respond, but which, at the same time, if it gives a future answer to the Barriers workers themselves and workers in the auxiliary industry. As far as Vulcano is concerned, I've already transferred it to him. We've been with Vulcan in 2012, we've been with Vulcan in 2017, we know that the financial situation is not easy, but we have to be realistic and sincere, and, Mr Bará, we never, ever, ever cheat on Vulcan workers; never, ever. And you should be a little more informed, simply. In any case, Mr. Bará, I have made it clear to you that the Council of Galicia has no doubt about supporting the Barriers and the Vulcan, surely the doubt is yours. So the question is whether you're going to give the Government of Pedro Sánchez an empty check with us to demand a solution for Barrier workers. The question is whether you will give the Government of Pedro Sánchez an empty check to give a solution to Alcoa or the Bridges. That's the question that Galicia and the Greeks really have with regard to the Galician Nationalist Block. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u503	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Mr Daniel Vega Pérez and seven other Members of the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, about the maintenance by the Central Government of some contact with the Galician Union to present some solution to the problem existing in the Alcoa factory in San Cibrao
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u504	To put the question, Mr. Vega Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u505	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Good afternoon, Counselor. We're really asking this question, this question, another time we've already done it in this Chamber, because of the concern that exists in the Navy for an attitude of contempt, for their ways of ruling -- better said, for not acting in favour of this district and for all the workers. Actually, if you look at yesterday's and today's press, the concern is palpable and visible in the various media. They reminded the socialist gentlemen, some mayors, who don't listen to their mayors in the area, because they really say: we want to see a unanimous support, that we are all united by a common goal. They're really not with the Socialist Parliamentary Group, they're not with their government in function, which could really act. There's a lack of commitment to a region, of course. There's a lack of commitment, really, to all the neighbors. And there's institutional disloyalty that turns into disloyalty with the people of Greece. There's a lack of industry strategy, which affects it, and there's a lack of commitment to employment. That really brings you to the category of decent representatives of unemployment; that's what all the Greeks are used to, and so are we. Yesterday we knew the auction, a auction of interruptability, a mechanism that helps Alcoa to compensate for the cost of electricity, 40% higher than its competitors in Europe. The 2020 auction is the lowest in history and the lowest in distribution. I mean, I repeat that they take note: the lowest in history and the worst in all history. Currently auction 2020, 1,000; earlier, 2,600. Take note. Previously, 2,600; currently 1,000. Previously divided into blocks of 40 megawatts, and now 0. That means there's no real government commitment with you. Previously, auctions distributed 186 million euros, and now, 0 euros. So there's no guarantee of boosting an industry like Alcoa for the benefit of a region like The Navy. I repeat if they didn't find out: 2,000 direct jobs and 6,000 indirect jobs. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u506	Thank you very much. Mr. Conde López has the floor of the Councillor for Economics, Employment and Industry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u507	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Vega, the first thing I wanted to move today is this Government's solidarity with the workers of Alcoa San Cibrao and with the workers of all the Greek electrointensive companies and the rest of Spain. We are facing an emergency situation in which the Government, unfortunately, is not moving any solutions. The situation is agonic and emergency, and the auction published yesterday in the Official State Bulletin is more a demonstration that this government does not have on its agenda industry, and that, unfortunately, can have no return consequences for employment and industry in Galicia. So at this moment, this Government is transferring solidarity to the workers and also transferring them to follow their side, which is going to continue to fight so that in Galicia we can develop the industry, so that in Galicia we can produce primary aluminium in Alcoa Coruña, so that we can continue to produce primary aluminium in Alcoa San Cibrao and so that electrointensive companies can have a scenario of certainty and stability. What I deeply regret is that in this Parliament workers do not hear a single voice defending their interests. I am deeply sorry that the Government is not giving solutions. But I regret more than today, throughout the various interventions, all parliamentary groups: the Socialist Party, the Joint Left Group and the Galician Nationalist Block are talking about industrial dismantling. I didn't hear a single word of support for the workers of Alcoa San Cibrao; I didn't hear a word of support for electrointensive companies; and I didn't hear a word of transferring it to the central government of Madrid. [[Applause]] The responsibility of the political groups in Galicia is to defend the Greeks, and as much as the Socialist Party in Galicia and as much as we want to rule in Madrid and as much as the Galician Nationalist Block wants to support Pedro Sánchez in Madrid do not deserve the workers of Alcoa San Cibrao who do not defend their interests. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the reality is that we've been here for a year and a half, and the government doesn't transfer a solution and a certainty of an electric price to the electro-intensive industries and, in particular, to Alcoa San Cibrao. It's been a few months since the Galician Union transferred a proposal and it hasn't been answered. There is a lack of permanent respect, a permanent indifference of the Government of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party of Galicia to the industry, to the German workers. And that, lords of the Socialist Party, Galicia and the workers of Alcoa San Cibrao don't deserve it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u508	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Vega Pérez has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u509	Thank you very much, Counselor. I understand your anger, I understand your indignation, because it is the anger and indignation that we have all the neighbors of the Navy; that's how angry we all have. I, of course, tell you one thing, Counselor: you come here and answer questions, questions that make you a humble servant, a parliamentary group... you're not Mr. Knight: "Chief, the questions I want." That's the difference between a serious government and a government or a group that pretends to be a government. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, their pacts indicate that there is a direct attack on the Navy. What we can't continue to allow is that we pay an electro-intensive price. We expect that statute, which they can approve, which they can approve. We can't keep paying 53 euros the megawatt. If the competing countries are paying a 30-40 euro slot, how do you not do an analysis and really focus on the important thing, which is to defend 2,000 direct jobs and 6,000 indirect jobs? That's the great benefit for a whole set of a county that demands jobs. Of course, we will continue to defend those workers. Counselor, I thank you for always having your face in the region and in the whole of Galicia. You went there to meet them, with the workers, not to listen to any friend. We've been perfectly together, looking at them... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u510	Quiet...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u511	...to the workers' eyes to tell them that there is a loyal government, not an attempt at government that deals with extremes and wants to abandon the whole area. Well done, socialist gentlemen, never, never the marine neighbours will we forgive this direct attack to all the neighbours of our neighborhood. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u512	Thank you, Mr. Vega. Mr. Conde López has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u513	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Vega, in fact, the situation that is currently going through the entire region of the Navy is a limited situation and we believe that workers must be transferred, as I said, to solidarity, but, above all, we must speak clearly, because politicians are to be useful to citizens, and politicians are to give citizens solutions. For the last ten years this government, the Galician Union, has been with the Alcoa workers and the Government of the Mariano Rajoy People's Party has been by and giving solutions to the workers of Alcoa San Cibrao. He gave them solutions to Mariano Rajoy's government when in 2012 he set up a pox mechanism that guarantees legal security the breaks. It gave them solutions when in 2017 the European Commission demanded more competitive rules for the interruptability system. You gave them solutions when you approved splits for compensation mechanisms for CO2 rights costs. And he was giving Mariano Rajoy's Government solutions when he was negotiating with the European Union a new mechanism that linked the support of interruptability to the development of renewables. Finally, we had a government in Madrid with the Government of Mariano Rajoy who gave solutions and gave a price so that Alcoa San Cibrao could develop his activity. We are currently facing a situation in which the Government has not fulfilled any commitment to Galicia nor has it fulfilled any commitment to the workers of Alcoa San Cibrao. First of all, there's a silence and a government indifference to the statute of the electro-intensive consumer. We do not have any information on the promise of settlement announced before the elections, nor do we have any information on the measures formulated by the Galician Union with the support of the sector and this Parliament. There's a silence and indifference also about the Industrial Bureau requested along with the workers of Alcoa San Cibrao, who remains unconvened. And there's a reality, which is the pause for the first half of the year 2020, which is the lowest in history. Unfortunately, the only message we have received from the Government of Pedro Sánchez is in the opposite direction; it is a message of closing Alcohol and risking other industries in Galicia like Ferroatlantic Soap. Of course, the Council of Galicia will not be next to the Government of Pedro Sánchez, what we hope is that the rest of this House will not be next to Pedro Sánchez and that, therefore, the Government of the Socialist Party is being demanded an immediate solution for the workers of Alcoa San Cibrao, for the workers of the electrointensive companies in Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u514	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. Da María de la Concepción Burgo López e don D. Luís Manuel Álvarez Martínez, do G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the maintenance by the Government of Galicia, today, of the commitment to the creation of the Museum of the Romanization of Galicia in San Fernando, in Lugo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u515	To put the question, Mrs. Burgo López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u516	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Counsellor, as you know, I imagine, Mr. Counsellor, a citizen platform has just been formed in Lugo in defense of the creation of the Museum of Romanization in Lugo and San Fernando barracks. This platform consists of the Provincial Neighbors' Federation, the Trade Federation, the Lugo Centrum Association, the Association of Autonomouss of Lugo, Miragross Trades, the Provincial Association of Hostal and Tourism Entrepreneurs, the Confederation of Entrepreneurs and multiple cultural associations, including, for example, the last, Monumental Place. They all defend the need to make the museum in San Fernando and demand clearly and specifically the Galician Union to keep its promises; promises that have been made since 2001, precisely because these promises are not fulfilled. These collectives and many citizens have no problem in clearly demonstrating that they feel deceived by the Galician Union and that they feel outraged by the lack of commitment and non-compliance. Look at a media headline from Lugo, says the following: "Social indignition for the rejection of the Union to intervene in San Fernando." This is the climate that exists right now in Lugo around a promise that you have made uninterruptedly since 2001 and then with the government of Feijóo. Not only did they make the promise, they also made a preliminary rehabilitation project that cost more than 200,000 euros. And in 2013 they said that we would probably have to wait a bit for the crisis, which the citizens and the government of Lugo also understand. What we don't understand is when Mr. Balsairo began to make certain and very picturesque statements. The first is that in Lugo there were many museums and there was no need for another. I, please, recommend you don't go to Madrid or to Malaga because it hurts you right away. [[Laughter]] And Malaga, who's also forming that... [[Applause]] Then he also illustrated to us that it was enough to send pieces to the city's Interactive Museum. We send out some pieces and we already have the Romanization Museum. This indeed outraged the citizens, this indeed made the cultural, economic and academic forces of Lugo consider that they were taking our hair, that Mr. Balsairo was taking our hair. We hope that Mr. Counsellor, no, and that he will make another policy. Besides, I don't have time to talk to you about another very serious problem, Counselor, which is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u517	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u518	...the deposit of the Roman remains that exist in Lugo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u519	Thank you very much, Mrs. Concepción. The Councillor for Culture and Tourism, Mr. Rodríguez González, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u520	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Burgo, the truth is that in your presentation you have three axes that, if you evaluate one by one, they are not true and really lack objectivity. First you think of the current situation of the Romanization Museum as a citizen’s cry. I think we can make certain killings here. Second, he posed the story, the long history of this museum, as an absolutely linear fact, without any questions in the way that altered the strategies, and it's also not true. It also suggests as if there was a abandonment by the Galician board of the cultural situation of Lugo -- which I think there are facts that deny it -- and as if the People's Party were not interested in launching this project, when really anyone who could do it at the moment didn't do it either. I'll go on a case-by-case basis. From the point of view of cultural investments in the city of Lugo, this council is making investments that we believe are important: in the church of San Pedro, 800,000 euros; in reforms and improvements in the wall, 650,000; in the palace of Dom Urraca and in the tower house of Tinería, together with the Environment, about 800,000 euros. We are talking in 2020 about investments only in this very important area, to which if we add up other investments in the Union - we think about the residential area or the educational area - we see that the Union makes a very decisive and very important bet on the city of Lugo. The truth is, what we want to do since Galician Union in this field, as in another field, is make investments, but do them well; we want to invest well the money of citizens, because in all this particular history there is a moment that you don't say, which is the launching of the Interactive Museum of the History of Lugo, the MIHL, known as MIHL; an investment of 12 million euros, around 12 million euros, made entirely by the Lugo Town Hall; when those 12 million euros, if actually at that time the Socialist Party had a real interest in boosting the Romanization Museum, they could either have gone to this museum, to the Romanization Museum, or to plant something different in an infrastructure that you know how I really have a social use and a really very small social return. The Council's data -- it's not the Council's data -- tells us that there are 4,300 visits/year in this museum. At the Chiroga Geological Museum there are around 7,000. In the San Cibrao Sea Museum around 18,000-20,000; in the Castro de Viladonga itself, about 25,000. With which, we have to invest, indeed, but we have to do it with a lot, a lot, a lot of sympathy. And with regard to the unanimous cry...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u521	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u522	...I also wanted to tell you that there are voices. This Monday there were voices...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u523	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u524	...that they propose different uses for this equipment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u525	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u526	...and even at the citizen level recently the media put forward a series of surveys, and the results...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u527	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u528	...are not so clear from the point of view of the cry, that you pose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u529	Thank you very much. Mrs. Burgo López has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u530	Counselor, you don't believe in the cry, which will take a surprise in certain elections, you'll see. But besides, look, the Town Hall of Lugo did the Interactive Museum and not the Romanization Museum. [[Applause]] Do you know why? Because I had a promise from the Galician Council that I was going to do it. He had a protocol of intentions signed by the Government of Galician Union that he was going to do that infrastructure and that the Town Hall was giving up the headquarters building, and the Board made that infrastructure, precisely by relying on the promises of the Galician Union - which of course cannot be done -. But, look, the neighbors of Lugo are watching because you can't be trusted. Those neighbors and that citizenship platform - which, of course, asked for an appointment, which I hope you give them - are saying things like this - are not my words, are their words - "Associations have qualified as incomprehensible and unacceptable the attitude of the Councillor of Culture and Tourism with low declarations of ambition about the city and proposals that no one has asked for, in order to avoid their responsibility and competences and try to piss off and divide citizenship." I can't say better, they're getting angry and trying to handle and manipulate citizenship. MIHL is not a building that is planned for a museum and cannot host a museum of romanization, which, Counsellor, must also be a research, conservation, rehabilitation centre of parts, because I want to remind you, Counsellor, that you have parkingd thousands and thousands and thousands of pieces in warehouses that are not even catalogued. You are responsible for abandoning many of the Roman remains that appeared in Lugo. You can't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u531	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u532	...say what you just said, you have to do the Romanization Museum...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u533	Thank you very much, Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u534	...where it was planned, in San Fernando barracks, and Lugo, Counsellor, knows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u535	Thank you very much. Your time is up. Thank you very much. The Minister of Culture and Tourism, Mr. Rodríguez González, has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u536	Thank you very much. Mrs. Burgo, don't let yourself be led by mirror deceptions because, in the end, we think we're all narcissistic. You know Narciso looked at the mirror of a water raft and ended up drowned. Lugo's first political force is not the PSOE, I hope and I suppose you know it. The PSOE governs, but Lugo's first political force is the People's Party; absolutely it was who won the elections. And, look, I just wanted to tell you that, in the face of your cry, what you're asking for, there's media that do public polls and the data aren't like that, and there's also other voices that don't replicate what you're saying, what you're proposing in this room. To sum up, so that it will be very clear and so that the city of Lugo and all Galicia will see clearly what our intention is, I'm going to say very clearly: Museum of Romanization, yes, no doubt; to make the mistakes of the past, no. We don't want to invest 12 million euros or 10 million euros in a cultural infrastructure with tourist reminders that it has no use. We want to make profitability and value what already exists. We wouldn't be good managers of the resources that citizens put in our hands if we were incapable and replicated the mistakes of the past; with which, we have to see that we made mistakes in the past -- in this case, the Town Hall in the past -- to avoid them. We must improve the city's cultural and tourist offer, no doubt. Lugo is a city that has a huge future in the cultural and tourist perspective, and all we can do to improve, to enhance, to generate economic development and to generate jobs around culture and tourism, welcome. With regard to San Fernando barracks, is this fantastic construction rehabilitated for cultural or tourist use? No doubt, yes. Improvisation for political opportunity? No way. We're not going to play a political opportunity for a particular case, but we want to have a longer, deeper vision and what the possibility of developing actions that improve the cultural supply of this city and with that the tourist power it can have. Convert this building to a reference that improves Lugo's offer? Also, no doubt, and do it without improvisation. We're working on a report, in a project, which we're going to present in very little time, immediately, where we're going to put points on the is, white on black, without any kind of improvisation, obvious and overcoming the mistakes of the past, what we're proposing, with an integral perspective, with a global perspective for the city of Lugo. Here we're going to define uses, strategies and we're going to do it immediately, publicly, with the citizens' contest, and I'm sure...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u537	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u538	... once this strategy immediately arises, even you, perhaps, applaud it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u539	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Mr Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and eight other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on the data of the Government of Greece on the degree of compliance with Law 12/2013 of 9 December 2013 on guarantees of health benefits, as referred to in the paragraph corresponding to the maximum periods of access to them
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u540	To put the question, Mr. Núñez Centeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u541	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Opposition groups have for years been in the grip of cuts and the privatization of Welsh public health in the governments of the People's Party. Last week, one of the pillars of the cuts fell, of the cover of the cuts, the judicial car that excuses Ms. Carolina Gómez-Criado and Mr. Félix Rubial from the charges of reckless murder and prevarication that I particularly consider petty. All the political and media alharaca that persecuted these two good people, who did nothing but their work in the service of Greek citizenship, lasted almost four years. Today I again ask the people who have insulted and missed these public servants to apologize. Firstly, Carolina and Felix, but also the entire People's Parliamentary Group, the Council of Health and President Feijóo. [[Applause]] Of all these people we have heard in this Chamber of True Barbarities. I repeat, we await your apology, which is already long enough. The second mantra of opposition groups is the supposed privatizations of the health system. Counsellor, the adoption of the Guarantees Act has been preceded and accompanied by constant demonstrations by opposition groups in connection with the privatisation interest of it. It was, according to these voicers, the only reason for the existence of that law, to create a business niche for private hospitals in Greece, which would result in a large part of these processes guaranteed in 60 days for surgery and 45 days for diagnostic tests and first consultations. This fallacy continues to be repeated constantly by opposition groups, obviating results made public by you and your team on various occasions reflecting the absence of referrals to concerted hospitals and the minimum number of cases that were attended in public hospitals in another health area. But we're used to it, Counselor, nor are there any excuses for false accusations or for using for constant electoral purposes and repeated falsehoods that have nothing to do with reality. And they're still mixing and confusing -- even today we've had the example -- the numbers on the waiting lists, the best in the historical series in Galicia, with the application of the Guarantee Law. Having completed the two years of the publication of the Decree on the regulation of the maximum time guarantee system for access to public health benefits, Members and Members of this group want to ask you: What data can the Council of Health of Galicia facilitate on the results of the fulfilment of the Decree of maximum waiting time guarantee in access to public health benefits? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u542	Thank you very much, Mr. Núñez Centeno. You have the word, for the answer, the Health Counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuína.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u543	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 10 January 2018, as you know, Decree 105/2017 of 28 September came into force, so the system of guarantees of maximum periods of access to public health benefits is regulated. This normative text complements the development of Law 12/2013, of December 9, of guarantees of health benefits, and it is added to the decree that regulates the right to second medical opinion, free choice of professionals and hospital center and to the one that regulates the operation of the Galego Register of Previous Instructions. Government Feijóo always thought that there should be guarantees within the provision of services. This decree guarantees the following maximum times: a maximum waiting period of 60 natural days for scheduled and non-urgent surgical interventions, cancers and other serious pathologies; a maximum waiting period of 45 natural days for the first scheduled and non-urgent external visits to cancer; and a maximum waiting period of 45 natural days for the first scheduled and non-urgent diagnostic or therapeutic tests, all related to rapid pathways of cancer. With this decree, since the Health Council and the Galego Health Service, we have acquired a new commitment to patients, as it passes from a global management of waiting times by priorities, an average expectation, for all diseases, to an individual commitment by patient and pathology. The selection of these procedures shall be carried out taking into account the severity of the pathologies, the effectiveness and the opportunity of health care and the priority protocols contrasted with scientific societies. This decree selects malignant oncological pathologies, valvulopathy, arterial vascular pathologies, benign cerebral pathologies, and ophthalmological pathologies. These diseases will gradually incorporate others. In addition, it is important to note that when the Galego Health Service does not provide the citizen with the maximum amount of attention he may choose to continue on the waiting list of the centre which he or she is responsible for or require the guaranteed care in another accredited centre in the Autonomous Community, either in a public centre in another health area or in a concerted centre. In these cases, the Galician Health Service would directly assume the payment of the expenses arising from the intervention and, as you well say, there was, after almost two years of this decree, no derivation to the concerted centre; there was no privatization that the opposition had announced. As regards the results of the entry into force of the standard on 10 January 2018 until 28 November 2019, as I said almost two years ago, 85,200 patients, 20,944 in surgical interventions and guaranteed diagnoses, 32,000 consultations and 31,000 diagnostic tests were benefited. Once again Galicia is considered...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u544	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u545	...as the fourth autonomous community that has fewer waiting lists. We're still getting better with more guarantees...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u546	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u547	...less wait, more quality of attention, less patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u548	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Núñez Centeno has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u549	Thank you, President. Thank you for the answer, Counselor. Of course, I think it's time and it's confirmed that the voices and voices of the opposition groups were trying to deceive the Greek citizenship. Looks like everything's good for taking vows. That privatizing law is becoming an effective tool for the prioritization of surgical processes, diagnostic tests and early medical consultations. It covers in all cases, and in 100 percent of them using public health facilities in public centers; 85,200 performances in public centers. It is clear that they were not telling the truth in criticism of this law, which favours people and improves health benefits, valuing and prioritizing processes for their gravity. They take advantage of the excuses they owe to the citizen for his behaviour in the case of hepatitis C to do so also to the citizens for having them cheated on the Law of Assurance. The people who have seen their expectations for appointments, tests and surgeries fulfilled so demanded. They didn't learn. They don't try to rule using repeated lies. They have failed on several occasions, failed in that socialist pamphlet of the elections of the year 2012, which prophesied that the Government of the People's Party would charge for everything, for all health benefits. They weren't telling the truth. The judge confirmed the public title of the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital, nor did they tell the truth. He didn't charge himself for using the chairs of this hospital, as they insisted on several occasions here, neither did they tell the truth. Counsellor, this group is proud of the approval of this law and of the data you have given us today in connection with its application. For our part, there are no more questions. We don't know if you want to expand any more data on law enforcement in the second round of interventions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u550	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. For the Government's reply, the Health Counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuína has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u551	Thank you, Mr. President. The advance in recognition of rights is marked by the approval of the Act of 9 December, of guarantees of health benefits, which is subject to: granting the necessary guarantees to users of the Galician public health system for the exercise of the rights of care within the established time limits, the free choice of family doctor, pediatrician and nursing staff, as well as hospital center, the request for a second medical opinion and the formulation of previous instructions and information on rights, duties, services and programs of the Public Health System. While other communities are still trying to decrease what is the surgical waiting list, we, as I said earlier, are in the fourth position of the less-expected autonomous communities. Logically, we're advancing in rights for all citizens. The results. Each of these paragraphs I think it is interesting that you know this Parliament. The first is the right to free choice of family doctor, pediatrician or primary nursing professional, as well as hospital hospital or hospital complex since the entry into force of the rule. The free choice of family medicine, pediatrics and primary care professionals was April 21, 2015; the free choice of nursing professionals in primary care, August 20, 2015. Up to October 31, 2019, 533,478 applications were made, plus numerous applications from family doctors and primary nursing staff. More than half a million people decided to change at some time as a professional, or, as some other reference, not only family doctors, pediatricians or nursing staff, but also hospitals. The right to have second medical opinion also guarantees patients this second medical opinion in relation to a first diagnosis or therapeutic proposal issued by a medical professional in the public health system. I think it's essential that a person, in the face of an important decision in his life, may have this second opinion, not only as far as it refers to oncological pathology, but also to other cases, as I say, of enormous gravity that can produce chronic disability and that can affect many people. Since the entry into force on 17 May 2015 to December 2018 more than 1,500 applications have been estimated. This law guarantees the right to demonstrate the patient's previous instructions, which will be taken into account by the health personnel in the framework established in the applicable legality. At this point, about 10,000 people have exercised this right, and we are now in a protocol with Fegamp to try to extend the points where they can make this statement. Ladies and gentlemen, we have an innovative health care that investigates and forms magnificent professional forms, and above all a health in which the person, the patient, is present in all our decisions and actions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u552	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u553	...and it is the recipient of all of the measures and of the advances that can improve the quality of their health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u554	Thank you very much, Counselor. Change in agenda development
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u555	Let us now turn to the cumulative debate on questions 7.8 and 7.9. Question by Mr Julio Torrado Quinteiro and two other Members, by Mr P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the evaluation of the Galician Union regarding the progressive loss of services that has been produced at the Hospital de Verín Question by da Paula Vázquez Verao and three other Members of the G.P. Mixto, on the basis of Galician board's reasons for cutting health services at Verín Comarcal Hospital
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u556	To put the question you have the word, first of all, Mr. Torrado Quintela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u557	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. I said the People's Party on November 20, two weeks ago, here, that the new organization allows to secure services in Verín. Two weeks ago. Three days later, they decided to suppress the birthplace of Verín. They looked forward to promising services, but they kept their hand with the machete to cut down services; the right hand, which is always the one that cuts services, in addition, does not forget. There's a systematic programmed service cut in comarcas hospitals, and it's based solely on the criteria: money, cuts. Because you make that decision for money, there's no other technical criterion that decides it, and you know, besides, that's it. Because, among other things, if Ourense is as close to Verín, Verín is as close as Ourense, and the professionals give him solutions: besides having the stable staff there, they give him the solution of the rotating professionals, which you have talked about on other occasions — certainly not on this occasion. You're experimenting with Verín, seeing what's going on, seeing how people react, and how they're so disconnected from reality, they didn't expect these reactions, because, based on the criteria you use, all the comarcal hospitals would lose their parity, all of them! So if you continue with this, you know the Members and Members of the People's Party who, when they have responsibilities to explain what happens in the comarcas hospitals, they will have to say that they have remained silent, and I hope they do not. But in view of this, you fled forward, with the pride of the Council, insulting professionals, saying that there was no quality and that they had no expertise. Then they corrected and worked on Feijóo's fear policy, to scare people with security, which you know, besides being a lie, it's quite, quite regrettable. That contempt of professionals led 20,000 people to the street. You came right here, with this lost situation you're in, talking about the private life of some politicians. You've got to be so lost! In fact, he began to talk about the need to set an example for some politicians from where to give birth, and I was quite afraid of what I was going to say, but it doesn't seem logical to talk about these things to excuse myself. This citizen response, and of many and many professionals, many and many professionals, many and many professionals, was an astonishing cry, Mr. Counsellor, and besides without more flags than the public health and the defense of the Vienna hospital, because if we carried flags of parties, which were not taken, you know that it would be yours too, because there were your comrades and your companions there, and you can no longer say that we are alarming with public health. You're going through an exam today, not with our group, of course, you're going through an exam with your group, and it doesn't seem to approve it. And remember, in this Parliament there have already been Members locked up on a floor against an action by the Union, and I give you an objective fact: the most opposition of the PP's Ourense is the majority. Corrigendum, Counselor. [[Applause]] Rectify!, above all, because, if you don't correct, Counselor, they're going to make it correct, and if you have to rectify it, it's bad for everyone, too for Verín. Rectify, that's best for the health system.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u558	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. Time's up. Mrs Vázquez Verao has the floor now, representing the Joint Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much. Silence! Quiet, please! You have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u559	Yes, they're in time to rectify, and indeed there's a citizen's cry, and there's because it's the first time that the Union closes a delivery service in a comarcal hospital, and that's what the government of the rural legislation says that the creation of the EOXI would improve the quality of care. I don't know if Lemos women will be able to give birth in Monforte by 2020, because the case is that neither on the boat nor in Monforte is that half of these 600 deliveries per year. They already said they weren't going to close these joints, but why did I see it? Why don't you take this distance into account in Verín? So the reason is quite simple, because it's easier to load on women than to manage well, than to look for solutions, because they had solutions, but they involve managing health taking into account the reality of the dispersed population of the country and putting resources on the table. They say they talked to the professionals. And they talked to the bosses? Because we have these referential professionals of normal delivery here in the gallery and themselves, who have just met with the people's valet to show that the women of Verín and the region remain in inequality with respect to other Galician regions, were willing to make trips in the CHUO before they closed the service. I don't know if they also talked to Verin's obstetricians and pediatricians. Because what's the scientific criterion that led you to the absence of pediatric guards in Verín and if you have to move 70 or 100 kilometers to a pediatric emergency? The truth is, the transfer of newborns to Ourense increased. What happened? Arguments were sought for the closure of the Summer Delivery Unit. But let's go to the arguments, to the arguments that the Board gave for closing the unit, because they were challenged by the Galagas Matronas Association, the Galician nursing schools, the Vernian health professionals and other comarcas hospitals. Even Ourense PP has challenged them for closing this service. Today it was also done at the SER, the head of the Obstetrics section at the 12th of October Hospital. Because, first of all, the threshold of 600 annual deliveries is a criterion for opening new services, but not for closing those in scattered areas, because the Administration must ensure that where there is a very long displacement there are delivery units whenever possible, because it increases the risk of increasing distance. Nursing schools also rule out the argument of the loss of professional experience by the number of births, because, let's remember, in a normal birth, the masters are the reference professionals and those who keep up-to-date knowledge and practices through continuous training -- by the way, that Sergas is obliged to impart -- It's funny they don't take all the recommendations of the WHO and the Ministry of Health into account. Why don't you take them into account in the recommendation that it involves the need for that personalized attention, that this attention is given in Verin to the fear of a mistress for a patient? Because the reality is they lack professional throughout the system to individually care for pregnant women. Mother's age alone is not a risk factor, and more than that, there's going to be an added problem, which is that they're going to increase income before time...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u560	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u561	They're going to increase income before time because women, in a stress situation, are going to come first, they're going to Ourense and they're going to have to be admitted before time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u562	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez Verao. The health counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u563	Good afternoon again, Mr. President. It's true that you don't want to talk about data, that you want to talk about feelings. I have to talk about data because I'm responsible for health care. Mr. Torado, I'm not shaking, I'm not really shaking. Look, in the face of the overwhelming reports of the medical officers of the services of Obstetrics, Xinecology and Pediatrics of the health area of Ourense, we made the difficult decision to reordinate obstetric and pediatric care, which is to care for the births of the women of the County of Monterrey in the University Hospital Complex of Ourense; a responsible decision taken, taking into account, rather than any other criterion, the safety of the children and their mothers. Arguments supported by scientific evidence and professional criteria. If all care activities involve risks, it is in obstetric care where their minimization becomes of particular importance, given the potential consequences that may result, and, as I say, based on what is fundamental, in reports of professionals, of those who sign the income and the highs of patients, patients, children and children. Unfortunately, in the region of Monterrey, as in other areas of Galicia and Spain, we have a birth problem, an important problem. The population has decreased by 13.6 % since 2010. The number of births -- you have it here -- went from 147 in 2010 to 60, which will be left this year. Women of fertile age also dropped significantly, at 26.6%, and it is still estimated that the projection will decrease by 7.45% more. This leads us to a dramatic situation, as I said, of the number of births reached. In addition, births are more complex: older mothers -- age is a very important factor, Mrs. Vázquez Verao, very important -- but also associated pathology, hypertension, diabetes, obesity, in vitro fertilization, which makes a process like pregnancy and childbirth increasingly require greater specialization in the use of resources. For this reason, the management of the newborn is more complex, with greater demands of neonatological and also technological expertise. In fact, women with high risk pregnancy are already being cared for and given birth in Ourense. High-risk pregnant women - 11 in total in that year 2019 - go to Ourense and there is no incidence. It doesn't seem reasonable that those at low risk have more displacement problems than those at high risk. In addition, a matter of great concern to us: in the last five months, they moved, once they were born, seven children. The transfer of a newborn born with a theoretical emergency -- if not, it wouldn't have to be transferred to Ourense -- is much more dangerous than before birth. Another circumstance we are suffering is the shortage of pediatricians at the national level, essential professionals at the time of delivery for proper attention to the child and the child who has just been born. All of this led us to make that decision to attend to the births of the local women in the Ourense Hospital Complex; a responsible decision, as I said, and difficult. And who are our advisors? Well, health professionals, those we trust, those who save lives, those who have the greatest concern about the patient's health, whether the mother, whether the children, are the best possible. But also scientific societies, the Spanish Society of Neonatology, the Galician Society of Pediatrics, the International Society of Ultrasounds in Obstetrics, the College of Doctors of Ourense, as we said earlier, and also the criteria of administration. It's true that the Ministry talks about 600 births. Here, on the Greek level, we're talking about 300. But then he talks about distance, and logically, we're not talking about comarcal hospitals, we're talking about a specific case at a particular time. In Verín, a drastic drop in the number of deliveries and a distance to the reference center not exceeding 45 minutes by bus is possible to ensure proper accessibility. There are places in Ourense itself that take longer to arrive right now at Ourense hospital than since Verín, such as Lobios and other parts of Ourense, and in the rest of Galicia there are too. At the same time, it must be noted that the Hospital de Verín has not been a pediatrician since 2006, a year that ruled by itself the Bipartite. We made a summons on June 26, 2019, which was deserted, which they couldn't incorporate. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the same ones that now question the technical reports that underpin that decision are the same ones that would criticize us if we did not take the reorganisation decision with those reports. We prefer to make those decisions, before we have to regret irreversible consequences for a woman or a baby. And from here, apart from saying hello to the professionals who are with us today in this Parliament, I mean that the work of all the professionals of comarcas hospitals and, of course, of the Verín Hospital is magnificent; it's a great job for many years, but we have to watch for specific circumstances at specific times and make difficult decisions that, of course, only seek patient safety. [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u564	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Torrido Quintela, first of all, has the word for reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u565	Thank you, President. Yes, they're very good, but take off their service. Great! [[Applause]] As for the professionals, Mr. Counsellor, you and Mr. Feijóo appeal to the question of security and fear. Let me give you some consideration about the professionals. Some of the professionals you say are based on -- don't confuse professionals with entities, by the way -- they've been presenting the same reports for years -- themselves -- "This decision, which is support" -- some professional said -- "should have taken years ago." Are you saying, then, that they've been going on for years -- let's go! -- don't make a decision today that they say they're doing for security and urgency? Because that's what they're saying. So it's a political decision, because they want it, not a technical one. There's several professionals who sign, yes, and there's a chief of poison gynecology who will know something and there's a chief of ship gynecology who will know something. I'm going to give you another data, which you haven't said now and that was very interesting this afternoon. He quoted one of his advisers, Dr. Rodríguez Zambrano. Why are we talking about another Rodríguez Zambrano - a doctor at Torrelodones hospital -? Look at a curiosity -- chance, uh! -- doctor at a private hospital, property of the company that has the largest number of private gynecology clinics in Galicia. If, in the end, the labyrinths of the Council always end in the same place, Counselor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] But, look, I'm going to give you a reference to a professional of the public — since you appealed to one of Madrid, I'm talking to you another of Madrid — because there's professionals for everything and there's no clear, technical, correct and dogmatic decision. The head of hospital delivery assistance 12 October -- something he will know -- says, "Don't lose expertise in that situation. The excuses are in the face of a measure that is simply personal savings. And there's a risk for women to walk that distance with delivery pains." That's what a professional says, too. By the way, if they listen to professionals as much as they say now, where is the Hemodynamics for Ourense, the 24-hour ambulance in Foz or the Emergency in Santiago? What about the chief of primary care in Vigo, Counsellor? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u566	Finish it, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u567	You use professionals like gums, to use and to throw, because you don't care about all of this...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u568	Thank you very much. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u569	It's only to justify itself.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u570	All right. Thank you very much. You have now the turn to reply to Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u571	Yes, as far as scientific reports are concerned, move them, because the professionals in Verín tell us that they don't know them and that, by reporting, they haven't even officially transferred them as the new working protocol, which is tremendous. Let's talk about data, yeah. For the data are that in fifteen years, with 2,500 births attended, there were no serious problems in the Summer Delivery Unit. Listen to the chief of Poison Xinecology, who supports these good results: not a single fetal death in labor. When there was a pediatrician in Verín, of course, there was no such risk either. Are you also going to ensure that there are pediatrical transfers? That's also in question. As for travel times, of course, there are women in our country who spend more than one hour of travel to the hospital, for example, those who live in the Courel. But we're talking about a county and a hospital area that covers some 30,000 people who are left without delivery units and without emergency pediatrics. And you have to listen to the professionals -- it's been said here. Listen to all of them and listen to all of them, and listen to all of them, after valuing all the opinions, not only those of interest, but also the gynecologists of poison and the boat. He did say yes, that he was based on professional opinion, but that's only when it matters. First of all, if only technical decisions are made, then there will be no need for high charges in Sergas. Secondly, there are professionals who do not endorse their arguments, above all this question that Mr Feijóo said in the morning that a delivery could be scheduled. Does this mean, then, that instead of making it easier for births to be as much intervention as possible — as they intended to do with a reference service the professionals in Verín — will wager for an even higher rate of cesarean? Because that's what's going to happen, that instead of betting on services that guarantee individualized attention on the part of the midwives — which is also recommended by international guides — is going to increase the instrumentalization of childbirth. The Verin Hospital could have a personalized follow-up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u572	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u573	The professionals who are here knew every manager...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u574	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u575	...from the start to the end of the process.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u576	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Thank you very much. For the Government's reply, the Health Counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuína has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u577	The truth is, I can't agree with you saying that the professionals working at Ourense Hospital are going to do more cesarean works than the other parity. The truth is, I'm surprised when you attack professionals who... Look, the advisors we have — as we said — are professionals, but not one or two, but everyone in the Ourense Hospital, 23 pediatricians and 21 gynecologists, who write a letter saying that they think it's the best possible measure — doesn't say so from the Council. [[Murmurs.]] The Council clearly makes decisions, but always based on professional criteria. What if the professional criteria were not accepted by the Council? I think it would be a big mistake. The great difference in recent years, Mr Torrado, because that is precisely what we are talking about: the very important decrease in births. That's a fundamental element. And what will women and children win for this transfer to Ourense? Because they're going to have high resolution ultrasound, an adult ICU for mothers, a pediatric ICU for newborns, if they need it, and, of course, subspecialization consultations that are in that hospital itself. [[Murmurs.]] It's also said to eliminate the E.R. in Verín. The emergencies in Verín are covered, as they were up to now, because the early emergencies make them primary-care pediatricians, who, as I said in the first hour of the afternoon, have some ratios of the lowest in Spain, about 700 children per pediatrician. And then at the CAP, as in every CAP in Galicia, because there are very well-trained professionals who can meet that first emergency. And, of course, there's a protocol if there's a need for referral to make the transfer to another hospital, in this case to Ourense Hospital. So you don't have to sow panic in the population, which is the only one that's looking for some of you. Why? [[Murmurs.]] Because the advisers who use it... these are the advisors, with a background picture of the Verín Hospital: they're mayors, senators, deputies... but the reality is that those professionals are the ones who sign a manifesto saying they agree with this. [[Mr. Health Counsellor shows a photograph.]] And there's a dismantling -- that's another argument you use at the Verín Hospital. Well, the truth is, it doesn't seem very reasonable what they say. Despite the loss of population — a number of significant population figures, as we unfortunately said in the region, as it passes in other areas of Galicia — we have increased staff — we are comparing 2010 with 2018 — from 254 to 298 professionals; in doctors, from 37 to 39. As we said, unfortunately, the Bipartite staff... in 2006 there was a template, but the Bipartite ended up with it, there is no one, despite those squares that we pulled out that we couldn't cover for not presenting anyone at all. [[Murmurs.]] We went from 179 to 208, and from 34 to 49 non-sanitary personnel. It's true that we went from 4 to 2, where there were cuts of managers in the hospital. In the current situation of insufficiency of specialist medical personnel, the existence of integrated areas is the one that is allowing Ourense professionals to move to Verín and maintain coverage of many other services, such as Medical Oncology, Nephrology, or Dystics. Of course, we're trying to make all those improvements. There's no future for the Summer Hospital? There's a future for the Verín Hospital. Today the president of the board spoke of an important project that he was demanding, which was the expansion of the Emergency Service and the CAP. We have already approved the Space Plan and the Functional Plan so that we can then arrive and bid this project. Of course, right now we're also improving the lab, the new headquarters of the 061 and other projects we have there. We're going to keep working because the work of the Council and the professionals is to keep doing things the way they need to do them, with scientific criteria, scientific evidence, and following what our professionals, with many years of experience, are still saying. For us, as I said before, there is no discussion at this time of the comarcasal hospitals or the extraordinary professionals who daily do great work in them, nor, of course, is there any question of the future of the Hospital de Verín — as I said — because we have projects in progress; and others in the short, medium and long term. This is a concrete measure in the face of a specific situation. I want to thank all the professionals in the Verin district for their daily work to improve the quality of life of the neighbors. I want to ask people to understand the problems that can be caused, but I want to tell them that the only purpose of this decision is to ensure the health of local citizens. We will devote all the time necessary to further inform the population of the goodness of this measure. When a politician swears or promises a position, he does it to protect citizens' rights. And the most important right is health protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u578	Thank you, Counselor. We're still on the agenda. Question by Da Marta Rodríguez Arias and seven other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on the balance sheet of the Government of Greece on the implementation of the Red May project, of support and Community maintenance for older people in rural areas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u579	You have the floor, to put the question, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u580	Thank you, Counselor. Good afternoon. In June 2017 the Social Policy Adviser, Mr. King Varela, appeared in this Parliament to explain the projects approved by the European Union in the field of social policy, and he was talking about four projects, with an budget of 7.8 million euros. Today we want to ask you about one of these four projects, specifically about the Red May Project, that support network for the older people living in rural areas...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u581	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u582	...known as a Care Program door to door; a program that leads to home free services such as ophthalmology, polio or Alzheimer's attention. In that appearance, opposition groups came to despise the projects, which they called "expert projects", "programs" or "miglas of the European Union." Even the Socialist Party came to say that the most interesting thing the counselor had said at that meeting was to say good afternoon to the ladies and gentlemen. Well, in June 2019, these mobile units are being set up in 20 municipalities in the Italian countryside, with a team of professionals and with an budget of only this EUR 1.1 million program. They got recognition from different social sectors for representing not only a step forward in caring for older people and active ageing, but also for providing these services around the countryside. For us, for the Popular Group, if it is important to know the data and the detail of that program that is being developed in Galicia, to know what the municipalities that visited these mobile units, how many users, how many older people have been cared for and what future prospects you have in relation to this program. That's why today we want to know what balance makes you from the start of this Care Program door to door for older people in the countryside. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u583	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. The Social Policy Adviser has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u584	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Rodríguez Arias, thank you very much, too, for bringing to this Galician Parliament a question about the primary issues, such as the attention of our elders. The Greek Government focuses its efforts on increasing the services that we make available to older people every day so that they are primarily those that choose what kind of service is appropriate for them. Because, Your Honor, when we ask the older people how and where they want to pass this stage of their life, most of the older people tell us that they want to stay in their own houses, next to their people and around them always. Ultimately, since it's logical, they don't want to leave their lives behind or leave their memories behind. And that's why the Galician Union will keep coming to the door of the elderly's house, living where they live, services of the highest quality that make their lives easier, without having to move out of their locality or the immediate surroundings. In this way, we have launched an innovative initiative in rural areas, such as the Red May European Programme or Project, or also the Care Programme, which brings together the older people living in small municipalities, as you well said, of optometry, physiology, memory stimulation and personal support and counselling services on various topics such as interpretation of water bills, light, or on various subjects as well as medical prescriptions or banking services. With this program, ladies and gentlemen, in 2019 more than 2,100 seniors have already been treated in 20 municipalities across Galicia; 5 locations in each of the provinces of Greece; more than 2,100 people attended in their first year, and, most importantly, a level of satisfaction of users and of the municipalities themselves where this very, very high initiative was carried out. Because when things work, we consider it necessary to bet on them, and for that reason the Galician Union will increase by 10 this year by the scope of this program to reach 200 municipalities in our community. Through the various resources offered by the mobile units of the Care Program door-to-door, the German Government has managed to take a further step in its commitment to making rural a more friendly and careful place with older Welsh and older people and also a living, dynamic and future land. But basically what was achieved with this service was to make reality the majority desire of our elders, which is nothing but to remain in their homes and in their surroundings.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u585	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Applause]] Mrs. Rodríguez Arias has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u586	Thank you. Counsellor, it is clear that what for the opposition was ridiculous is not for those 2,100 older people who have been cared for through this Care Program leads to the door. Because getting to the older people who live in the municipalities of the rural social services of proximity, of course, for us is not ridiculous. To ensure that these older people stay in our homes is not ridiculous, nor is it ridiculous for older people who live alone to feel safe in their homes, nor is it ridiculous for their quality of life, essentially for those dependent people. In all this matter, the only thing that was ridiculous was the position of the opposition, which we hope now that they know this program works, that people are happy, that there are users in rural that need this program and that it will be expanded by the Council that stop thinking that it is ridiculous. Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u587	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. For the Government's reply, Mrs. Social Policy Counsellor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u588	Thank you, President. Mrs Rodríguez Arias, thank you very much for your approach. As I said in my first intervention, the Care Program door to door is a program and it's services that lend themselves that exceeded all kinds of expectations and that guarantees the right to become greater in their home to whom it so freely desires. But, as you will know, this is not the only service that the Galician Union performs in its own homes or around older people, but that the Galician Union also provides various services, as can be the home aid service, where Galicia is a pioneering community at national level; it is one of the best services valued by older people because they want to be cared for precisely in their own homes and with which we bring professional attention to 24,000 older people, to 24,000 households - 1 out of every 3 dependents attended, six times more than in the year -. We also provide another very important service for all those older people who can't or don't want to cook, so they can have a healthy and balanced diet, such as the Dining Service at home, with which the Galician Board offers 40,000 menus a month for older people. We also provide the basic teleassistant service and now advanced teleassistant service, which makes Galician Union in collaboration with the Red Cross, which they enjoy about 6,000 users in our community and which works 24 hours a day. And also the largest house network, which, as you well know, are small day centers in rural Galicia completely free of charge for all users and will double their presence by 2020 until they reach 60 facilities. Ladies and gentlemen, the welcome of all these programs makes it clear that today's Galicia continues to be a reference to services that allow our seniors to stay in their homes and surroundings without ever giving up being cared for with the highest qualities and guarantees. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-04-DSPG141.u589	Thank you very much, Counselor. There's no more business to deal with, finish the session.
