ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u1	Good morning. We resumed the meeting with the fourth item on the agenda, questions for the president's oral answer. Before we proceed to your formulation, we greet the students of the Downtown of the Coruña. They are students of 1st of the senior cycles of Administration and Finance and Assistance and Directorate. Welcome to Parliament. And also the guests who accompany us today in the rostrum. Let's get started. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luís Villares Naveira, G.P. of En Marea, on the impact of clientelism and arbitrariness on the safeguard of the social and environmental interests of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u2	Mr. Villares Naveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u3	Thank you very much. Good morning, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Núñez, at yesterday's control session, at the plenary session of yesterday's House, his party abstained from the request for the removal of the people's valet. All your party abstained, except for a vote against that there was, and we ended up wondering if it would be you who voted against the removal of the people's valet, if you really decided to defend the Miracles Otero until the end, even though in July 2018, when we were here to discuss this subject, you said that when the sentence was firm, you would take note of that sentence. We don't know if he was betrayed by his subconscious, accustomed already to the caccic practices of his party. I'm going to let you read the July 11, 2018 Session Diary, where the response to the Government's control session says, "Tell me if we're going to respect the sentence. Yes, Mr. Villares, we are Democrats. If the Supreme Court considers that judgment to be firm, what will this group do? Take note of the Supreme Court's judgement." This is the Journal of Sessions, these are your words. We're wondering in this case what it means to take note of you, Mr. Núñez. Where did you take notes? Where's that engagement? If you don't know your words, you can consult the Session Journal. We do not forget, Galician citizenship does not forget its commitment to take note in the case of the firmness of the judgment. We have not forgotten these weeks in which your unlimited protection of Mrs. Otero has led to the People's Valley to become an institution now spotted, corrupt and unserviceable for its task. In July 2018 you secured respect for the judgement of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia when it was firm, and said you did so because your group was a Democrat. In view of what happened, what's going on? You voted the same when the sentence was firm as when it wasn't. What's the matter, they're no longer Democrats? You don't recognize any more judicial judgments? They don't respect them anymore? Because you talked about it with regard to the judgments. Is that what justifies the criticism of the magistrates that Mrs. Paula Prado made yesterday in the judgement of the High Court of Justice? We think you must speak clearly and explain to the citizenry why he keeps in the People's Valley to Miracles Otero when justice has already believed that he has filled Manuel Fraga's niece and sister with the voice of his parliamentary group. But it's not the only case of firm corruption, there are some cases still in legal litigation, and we wonder how long will it continue to maintain clientilism and arbitrariness as ways of doing their government. This Thursday, the director general of Minas, Angel Bernardo Tahoces, will declare as accused by his irregular performance at the opening of the San Fiz mine in Lousam. Tahoces is accused of an alleged crime of environmental prevarication, but in his government he did not speak of dismissing him, nor now nor in the case of criminal conviction. That's all. We couldn't even bring the Economic Counsellor here because you just vetoed him right now at the Vocieros Board. So what kind of control can we do, by any means, about these types of accusations? They are not the only ones, also in the case of Jiménez Morán, already convicted of actions relating to an irregular concession in connection with a radar company linked to the Gürtel case and who is now again charged with urban corruption, which is their area, in which they are specialists. We asked ourselves, what are they going to do? Not now, are you going to do something in case of conviction? Because a year ago they said the people's valet they would do and they finally didn't. But we can go to cases that are firmly condemned and on which you didn't even pronounce, like the case of Champion, who left two convicted of his own government, high positions of the Igape, and a MP of the People's Party during his first government mandate. What has to happen, Mr. Núñez, to keep corruption away from the institutions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u4	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u5	...galeges? What else has to happen for the Greeks and the Greeks to see that you refer to citizenship in the face of client's practices? People don't want corruption in institutions, people don't want abuse of power in institutions, people don't want an institution condemned, a person convicted of abuse of power, a person convicted of power deviation, arbitrary and disregarding the principles of equality, merit and capacity, to continue in front of an institution. Looks like you're the only one who wants me to go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u6	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u7	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u8	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Villares, after this teaching you transfer us to the unity of the parliamentary group. After giving us a lesson in how the parliamentary groups must vote together and must be solid in their ideas, everything is possible. If you try to tell this parliamentary group today if there was a person who broke the vote discipline and you try to give us a class of parliamentary group discipline, Mr. Villares, you will understand that the answer to your question should be referred right now. Mr. Villares, you can hardly teach anything. I'm telling you since your cordiality, Mr. Villares. [[Applause]] But, Mr. Villares, you exercise a peculiar way of understanding justice: the presumption of innocence does not know what it is, the convictions in the case of the Director General of Mines set them before they are dictated, and the judgments are whether or not they care about you or not. The first thing that was done with the people's valet was to take the sentence immediately and leave that appointment void immediately. That appointment was left with no effect immediately. Subsequently, the valuator of the people and the institution has a perfectly right, to contest whether the judgement of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia conforms or not, according to the doctrine of the Supreme Court. And the Supreme Court did not come into discussion on this matter and considered that this judgment was no longer necessary to re-examine it. From there, the people's valet has presented its resignation and the release of its office to this Parliament. That's the reality of the facts. And you're here constantly exorcising everyone, as you always do, probably not to get into other matters, which, as you will understand, will not find in me a spokesman for them. Mr Villares, who signed the resolution of that contest was the Deputy Valor or Deputy Valor, and no group of this House pronounces on this. Do you agree that the attached valet should immediately resign? Or as a result, what is the Socialist Party's proposal, should it be maintained? We think we have to make a complete renewal of the people's Valator institution, and that's what we are. I suppose now, after the elections, we can talk to either the Socialist Party or BNG or you, a part of you or your whole, we'll see this afternoon, so we can continue renewing the People's Value, which is the right thing. For the Government of Galician Union the easiest thing is to resign both of us, we are without Valedoria and, consequently, there is no control over Galician Union. Does it seem to you that this is to respect Parliament, respect the parliamentary institution and that the Galician Union uses this case to lose control of any kind? If we did that, I'm sure you'd tell me we were using a technique to leave Galician Union out of control. No, Your Honor, we believe in autonomy, we believe in the Constitution, we believe in the Statute and we believe in justice. And since justice has just called on a director general to declare, to declare, to declare quietly and quietly before justice. Nothing to hide, nothing to fear, absolute collaboration with justice. Mr. Villares, most of the judges in Galicia are not like you. Consequently, there is no fear of declaring to independent judges. A different question would be to testify to you. That, as you might imagine, we should avoid it for the sake of Justice in Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u11	Since the president of the Supreme Court and the General Council of the Judiciary was held high with Aznar for eight years, I suppose he will soon swallow his words. As far as Mr Tahoces' statement is concerned, he can declare with all ease, of course, but what we are asking was the appearance of the Economic Counsellor here today to explain this situation at the political level, the political dimension of this action, and you have vetoed it. What are they afraid of? Are you afraid of political debate? Are you afraid of political evidence of the practices of your general directors, in this case of Minas? What are you afraid of infringing on the Economic Counsellor's appearance? Say you're afraid. Are you afraid of political debate? Let the Economic Counsellor come and explain himself and let us have a debate here and there. What's the matter? When you say, in relation to the case of the people's valet, that the decision was left with no effect, it would only be missing! You'd only have to leave it without effect! But that's not about you, it's about the institution itself. It's more, if I hadn't done it voluntarily, then I'd be in charge of a crime of disobedience. So nothing to do with your parliamentary activity. You said that the valet came here and presented a resignation and a disposition. All of this was useless, had no legal effect at all, and witnessed by the House's Juridical Services. That role was like putting nothing, absolutely nothing, and so it was said loud and clear and it is written in Parliament's Legal Services. Then, of course, what really happened was a booty of hair on the part of the valet. We have a person who is condemned by power diversion, by violation of fundamental rights, who is marking this Parliament and the People's Party, by the way, what are the times of renewal of an institution that is stained by institutionally corrupt practices. You come here and try to confuse yourself with the theme of the attached valet. The attached valet is not convicted in this judgment. We're talking about people who are firmly convicted of judicial judgments. It is not true, on the other hand, that the Government is out of control, because the People's Valley Law itself establishes substitution mechanisms in the event of a vacancy. So don't come here to say things that aren't right: there's control. And I also tell you something else, so that control will continue to be that of Mrs. Miracles Otero, so that almost better than the thing remains as it is, but, in any case, the law itself foresees substitution mechanisms. So there's control, substitution, so what's not political will, and you'll know why they cover up to the end of the Otero Miracles.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u12	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. Villares, you just said something that should make the whole House reflect on the president of the Supreme Court. Do you consider that the president of the Supreme Court is not able to preside over the Supreme Court? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Villares, one thing is being high in the Ministry of Justice and the other is being a candidate for the presidency of a government. You, being a judge of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, were making judgments against the board of Galicia when you knew you were going to be the candidate for the board of Galicia. Yes, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] By the way, mostly revoked by the Supreme Court. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You wanted to condemn a democratic government to benefit a set of applicants in a wind competition, when you knew you were going to take the candidacy of the presidency of the Government of Galicia. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Therefore, Mr Villares, now that you are students from 1st Management and Business Management, you should listen to this interesting control session. A person here stands up in the name and representation of justice, when invested in a toga by one hand and with the other by signing a candidacy to the presidency of an autonomous community, said judgments against a democratic government in Galicia that were later reformed mostly by the Supreme Court. And you come here to teach lessons of justice, ethics and responsibility. Mr. Villares, a little respect for the truth, a little respect for the truth. Look, Mr. Villares, in your party, who talk so much about turning doors, what are you going to do when your fellows finally decide to disregard their services? Are you going to the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia to pronounce judgments against the Government of Galician Union? Mr. Villares, a little respect for truth and a little respect for judicial independence. I respect the truth. He says the Economic Counsellor doesn't show up. But if you have an interview this afternoon! How can one lie continuously and constantly? You speak of the director of Minas and a mining concession, when that concession was granted a hundred and twenty years ago, in 1884; it was updated thirty-five years ago, in 1984; it was updated by the Bipartite; and it was the Bipartite who gave this company a subsidy for that exploitation in that mine. [[Interruptions.]] And you speak now of the Director General of Mines of the People's Party of Galicia! [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, absolute tranquillity! We always comply with the law, we will continue to comply with the law, and we will respect judicial independence, even if you, for now, continue in that judicial independence which I, of course, do not believe or share. Mr. Villares, there are many judges in Spain. Clearly, the exception confirms the rule. The exception is you, and the rule is judicial independence. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u14	Mr. Villares, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u15	For statements which are insidious, which do not correspond to the truth and which in part affect the honorability not only of this Member, but of the whole section which handed down a sentence unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u16	The presidency doesn't appreciate it. You were in the debate. No, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u17	The Presidency only appreciates what the People's Party is interested in, to vary. You just appreciate what the People's Party is interested in...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u18	The Presidency appreciates it very well. No, I'm not taking anything off.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u19	...and acts once again with a part character, instead of acting in the service...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u20	No, no. The debate is over. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] For that there are courts, if you want to put it this way. That's not the point. I'm sorry, I'm not taking anything away. It's over. Mr. Villares, you've finished your shift. Your time is up. Mr. Villares, you don't have the floor. Mr. Villares, I don't want to call you in order. That's the end of the word. It's over. Question by Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the need for compliance by CRTVG with the public service function
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u21	Question by Mrs Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u22	Thank you very much, President. Mr Feijóo, imagine you're being told about a country where the director of public television is appointed by the president when the law says that Parliament has to appoint him. Where workers and public media workers have been reporting manipulation on black Fridays for a year. Where there is a filer filed for denouncing the censorship before the president of that country. [[Applause]] A country where interviews with artists are cancelled because they went to the public with the T-shirt that denounces manipulation. Where we have heads of information that go from the election to the ruling party, or also retaliation actors to participate in a series denouncing the ties of the president's party to drug trafficking. Would you say that this government respects a basic principle in democracy which sets out the laws, Mr Feijóo, of independence and plurality? Would you believe the president of that country if he came to Parliament saying that he doesn't know anything? Well, look, Mr. Feijóo, this is what you're doing on this country's public radio and television. The Greeks and the Greeks paid 100 million euros to have a television and radio that is all of them, not their press office and propaganda. And what I'm telling you is just the tip of the iceberg of what's going on in the public media under your mandate. We have a lot more examples. The last one, Mr. Feijóo, what happened in this campaign, where we see how you boycott there may be debates on Galician TV. Yes, yes, you, when you were -- calm, quiet, ladies and gentlemen of the PP --
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u23	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u24	...in the opposition, he proposed debates in the general elections among political leaders of the parties. When you were in the opposition, there were debates. Now that you're in the government, get out of the debate. And of course, as they have to disguise, they organize a debate simulation at ten in the morning, ladies and gentlemen, in the public media. I don't explain how on the rest of the televisions there are debates at ten o'clock at night with audience share. I think, Mr. Feijóo, you're going to have to send Sánchez Left to explain to them what the anti-debate means. Look, the democratic quality of a country is measured by its media, and Galicia, with you as a champion of manipulation, comes out very badly. We want to return the radio and public television to whoever pays them, which is the citizenship of this country. That's why I want to make three proposals for you, Mr. Feijóo. The first is that we regulate electoral debates, so that citizenship has guaranteed its right to see political leaders contest and debate proposals, and in hours of maximum audience. Secondly, we must end the violation of the law. You can't follow a named-to-finger general manager, and what we're proposing is that there be a public contest so that the next CRTVG leadership doesn't unilaterally decide it neither one or two, but that it's the result of a merit contest where the best is professionalism and independence. And finally, Mr. Feijó, we were told to comply with the law. He's got CRTVG's law on the freezer. Why aren't the drafting boards and the Professional Statute already established? Because don't do it to you out of the law, and whoever doesn't do the law is a criminal, Mr. Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u25	Thank you. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, tell me if I know a country where the director of television is appointed to the finger without counting on Parliament etc. The answer is yes, I know it. I was in the opposition when that happened. The director of the Galician Radiotelevision Company at the time of the Bipartite was appointed finger without consulting the majority group of the House. The pact consisted of: information for PSOE and programs for BNG. The director of the Galician Television for the PSOE and the director of the Galician Radio for the BNG. I know that pact perfectly, Mrs. Pontón. We were the majority party of the House and they didn't even talk to us to see if it seemed right. [[Interruptions.]] I know him in detail, Mrs. Pontón. [[Murmurs.]] I know him in as much detail as this majority party, most of them absolute minus one seat, for four years he had less time on television than any of the two parties that made up the Government. [[Applause]] Starting with the BNG, which had a third of the MPs who had the Galician People's Party. I know him so perfectly that I will never forget. That's why the first thing I did when I got the Presidency of Galicia was to talk to the Socialist Party and propose a third party to elect a director, and from that, the Socialist Party elected the current director. See if I know in detail exactly how the Galician Radio Television Company was formed! [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, without going into other considerations, I also know perfectly well how that Bipartite director had to send letters to the nationalist vice president complaining about the interference of nationalists in his work. I know him so well that I have the letters here. That's why you're here to talk about the manipulation of the Galician Radiotelevision Company is a sarcasm, Mrs. Pontón. What I'm telling you, ladies and gentlemen, is that this Galician Radiotelevision Company is healthy, and with you it had a deep deficit. This Galician Radiotelevision Company is the most sighted after Spain's TV3. And this Galician Radiotelevision Company has a public service to promote Greek language and culture. Your Honor, TVG is the leader of all autonomous televisions after TV3. In 2018 it closed with a 10% audience, and in prime time and programs with 10.8%. The data just came out of the first quarter of 2019, an absolute audience leader in the main slots of the day in Galicia. It leads sixteen at twenty-four hours of television in Galicia. I know well that the company is the most valued channel in Spain as far as the spread and culture of Galician language; 20 points above the average of the autonomous communities that make up FORTA. And I know very well that this TV is healthy because we had to clean it up, Your Honor. And now this television is healthy, it has audiences and it's a television with an independent status, and it's up to the director to conform and attend this parliament and to give this parliament an account of their appointments. Just as this government, unlike its government, doesn't name anyone in the Galician Radio Television Company, it doesn't name or stop, so when it's named, it turns out it's wrong. And when what was called wrong is stopped, it's also wrong, Mrs. Pontón. But what is the obsession of the German nationalists with going against everything that is in Galicia itself? Against public health; against public education; against the Galician Radiotelevision Company. Despite having less than half the budget that other autonomous televisions have, we have twice the audience of most autonomous televisions. Mrs. Pontón, but you really don't wake up when the Bipartite, and you sordidly, were... yes, Your Honor, yes. If you've been here a long time, longer than I have! Imagine it's been a long time! So, Mrs. Pontón, do you not remember when this group, mostly in Parliament at least one seat, said its predecessor in the post that Galician Television was worth knowing where the Bipartite councillors were going to eat?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u27	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u28	He will remember that memorable phrase — by the way, quite certain — of the spokesperson for the BNG. Mrs. Pontón, it gives me the feeling that you guys have much less trouble with the current address of the Galician Radio Television Company than with your own address that you put your finger on radio and television. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u29	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u30	Mr. Feiséo, I see you very nervous and angry. I see him very angry, Mr. Feijóo. [[Interruptions.]] I understand you're recovering from Sunday's day. [[Murmurs.]] There's absolutely nothing going on. And it's also fine because you're back in opposition, it's back in opposition from the Bipartite. Go get ready because that's what's left of you from next year, Mr. Feijóo. All right, you've got a bipartite trauma. I think it's time to fix it. What I do ask you is that you don't take our hair, Mr Feijóo, and don't miss this House or this country. Do you know who's against public health? You, who's been torpedoing the public system for ten years, prepricing and expelling doctors and doctors from this country. Whoever destroys public health is the one who's against it. Not us, who will defend her and we will continue to defend her as much as you care for her. [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Feijóo, you know a lot about all the places, but you don't know anything about what's going on in your country, and you never answer a question. Do you know whether or not public media workers have been reporting the manipulation and censorship in the media for almost a year? Do you know or not, Mr Feijóo, that it is also the workers and workers of the public that are saying that you violate the law? Why should I pass a law if you don't do it, Mr. Feijóo? What's it worth? There's a law in 2011 that said that in six months a new director had to be appointed for this parliament. And, you know what happened from 2011 to 2019? That follows the same director that you have named your finger, Mr. Feijóo. It's embarrassing, and it's kind of a way of showing us that you keep the law! Do you know the difference between the Bipartite and today? That when I rule the Bipartite there were debates on CRTVG, and today, Mr. Feijóo, there are those who are thinking about putting Telefeió on television in this country, because that's what you're turning it into. I know you're worried, but it's just that the public media in this country don't have to be a place to make propaganda cabinet to whoever's in the government. They have to operate on their public service mission, and they don't do it in the news, they don't do it in the dissemination of language and culture, they don't do it at the time that really the Greeks and the Greeks see us reflected in what's going on in the public media in this country. And you, as usual, run away. He is the king of opposition to the Bipartite, but he is unable to face and answer in this parliament. We made three proposals and you didn't say anything at all. Are you in favour or against which we regulate electoral debates at CRTVG? You're either in favor of or against ending appointments at your fingertips...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u31	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u32	...and which address is named for a merit contest, where what is worth the capacity and professionalism of these professionals? And finally, Mr Feijóo, are you in favour of or against having editorial advice and professional status? Because since 2011 there is a law that says they had to exist, and their government is vetoing those instruments. And you know why? Because if you don't, they're taking over CRTVG's command. And you, Mr. Feijóo, resist the law. Look, you have two options: you can end this long night of stone where you have the public media already, or, if not, from next year on, you'll see who's going to end it are the citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. [[Murmurs.]] Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u34	Thank you very much. Yes, Mrs. Pontón, there were debates at CRTVG, it's true. I hope I read you part of that debate. "I think my duty is to inform you about a situation that impedes the work that is being carried out by the professionals of the Galician television news services." This is not a letter signed by the company's current director. No, no, it's a letter signed by the director of the Bipartite. And do you know who she was headed to? To the Bipartite officials at the BNG. Like there was no debate? There was constant debate among you. There was a permanent debate. Whether the Vice President was properly covered or not. So much so that there was debate, because it was considered that the Vice President was not of sufficient relevance, that he was forbidden to be allowed to enter the chambers to follow what the vice president was doing. And you're talking about manipulation! But, Mrs. Pontón, I would be unable to say what you say after the history of your government. You argued that you were not in agreement with the coverage plan at the Galician Radio-Television Company, and the Central Electoral Board responded to the BNG saying: "Today the coverage plan guarantees respect for the principles of pluralism, equality, proportionality and neutrality." That's what the Central Electoral Unit says in these autonomous elections, and you shut this up too. We have a company that's following, in the coverage of the BNG, exactly what the law says, and you just say it's manipulated. They say we have no content of language and culture. The new Culture Strategy 365 of the Galician Radio and Television Company. About 40% more culture time on TVG; 40% more culture time on TVG! And the time of culture on the radio grew by 142% with the Cultural Diary. And what's important, it went from 3,000 listeners to 100,000 listeners. It seems to you that the Company's cultural programs are inaccurate. And it turns out you forget that the listeners of culture, both on TV and on the radio, are growing exponentially? We are an autonomous community with public television, 20 points better rated by the population in the field of the protection of the language and identity of the autonomous community, data from FORTA. And you keep saying it's not true? We are modernising public television and investing 15 million euros in the digitization of public television. He's already started broadcasting on HD, being Spain's only TV with more than one channel on which they all broadcast on HD. [[Murmurs.]] But, Mrs. Pontón, I'm giving you audience data. It's the second autonomous television with the most audience in Spain. It's television with more audiences -- 24 hours in Galicia -- 16 more audiences. And you say the Greeks are fools to look at her! That reminds me of another party politician who, unfortunately, continues to exist in our country, we will see for how long! But do you want to go back to last century, where were the TV accounts to be reformed because they didn't fit into reality? Do you want to go back to the Bipartite Television Company, which had the greatest litigiousness in its history? Do you want to go back to the Bipartite Television Company, which had to reprobate the People's Valedor and the election boards? Twelve convictions to the Galician Radio-Television Company in coverage of the 2009 autonomous elections for treating the majority party of the House indiscriminately! But, Mrs. Pontón, a little respect! [[Murmurs.]] I repeat, I understand that you may be upset, but the proposal of three directors of the Company was transferred to the Socialist Party because it was the majority party at that time; and of those three, they chose one, and that's what it is. Therefore, as long as there is no agreement to change it, I understand that this director is a consensus among the major parties. Look, Mrs. Pontón, tell me if I'm nervous about the election results. Man, of course, I'm not happy with the election results. What we have to do is congratulate the one who won the elections, which was the Socialist Party, which will never do the BNG when it always wins, except on this occasion, the People's Party. What we have to do is congratulate the Socialist Party and tell him he has won the election cleanly. [[Murmurs.]] That's the difference between a democratic party and the BNG. We must congratulate those who win, Mrs. Pontón. Congratulating those who win, it's logical! [[Applause]] So, Your Honor, when you tell us whether we're nervous or not...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u35	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u36	...and it turns out that BNG has practically the same vows as Vox in Galicia... to say from the BNG that the People's Party is nervous, when this party that says it's Galician savior... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u37	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u38	...have the same votes as Vox in Galicia, is it for the BNG to be satisfied? Mrs. Pontón, you still feel satisfied.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u39	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u40	If you think that Galicia's representation and Galicia's defense are improved with votes similar to Vox, which are against Galicia's autonomy, it's obvious, as I told you a long time ago...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u42	...that the extremes touch. Nothing else and thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u43	Thank you. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga of G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the balance sheet of the policies of the Government of Greece on housing
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u44	Question by Mr Xoaquín María Fernández Leiceaga, spokesperson for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u45	Good morning, Mr. Nuñez Feijóo. The truth is, in a day like today, after the electoral hangover, there won't be much attention — I fear — to housing policies, but we have to try. Except you tell us you're looking for a place to live in Madrid, then that would be news. [[Murmurs.]] I'm going to read to you... - Let's get to the point, let's get to the point. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no... I will read Article 27 of the Galician Autonomy Statute. "In the framework of this statute, it is up to the Autonomous Community of Galicia to have exclusive jurisdiction over the following matters: land and coastal management, urbanism and housing". The fulfilment of article 47 of the Spanish Constitution, which basically determines that all Spaniards have the right to enjoy a decent housing, for Galicia's case, is in the hands of the Council of Galicia. And this question has as its objective that we discuss what since the Socialist Party we understand is the passivity of the current Council of Galicia in this matter, and force a change of course and priorities in these policies. In practice 2009, housing policy spending forecasts exceeded EUR 200 million. In the last four exercises, already economic recovery, we were in a little less than 1/3. For some specific program, such as access to housing, in 1/6 of what was in 2009. But if instead of predictions, that is, what's planned, we're talking about what's really going on, we're even further behind. Over the past four years, they have ceased to run around 100 million euros in housing policy, which were lost because they were own funds. That means, about, we lost 10,000 homes of public promotion. The real balance is dramaticly enlightening. The year 2009 began two thousand shelters protected, two thousand! In the last year it's closed, nine. In Spain, in 2017-2018, they qualified in all kinds of schemes nine thousand thirty-two dwellings; in Galicia, sixteen; that is, 0.17% of the Spanish total. We'd have to multiply by 30 to be on a per capita ratio similar to the Spanish average. Its policy can therefore be summed up in the abandonment of incentives for the construction of protected dwellings and total paralysis in the direct promotion of dwellings, as has traditionally been done in the Autonomous Community of Galicia, and it is only necessary to remember the examples of fountains, of San Paio de Navia, in Vigo, or others. And it's not because there's no demand. It's not that we've got a demo so good that none of this matters. In the plaintiffs' register there are thirteen thousand petitions; about four thousand, under thirty-five years. I mean, they're our youth; almost all concentrated in urban areas. Fifty thousand people behind these requests, and a maximum offer, being generous, for the whole legislate, of about a hundred dwellings: fifty thousand in front of a hundred. Do you know what the consequences are? That the renters rise, that access to housing is increasingly difficult in an effort on the average income of families, as the Observatory of the Housing of Galician Union itself says. And so, especially people who are in the most disadvantaged situation and youth, they find it more difficult to access a housing, to be able to be emancipated or to have a decent life. These are the figures, these are the alarming signs of the consequences of your policies, and that's why you should have told us in the response you notice and you're going to change your policies in this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u46	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Leicega, on behalf of my group, would like to congratulate you on the elections that were held last Sunday, on the election results, where the Socialist Party has reached a hundred and twenty-three seats, was the most voted force, and the Socialist Party has also won in votes in the Autonomous Community of Galicia. I would like to tell you, Your Honor, on behalf of this parliamentary group and the Government, that I hope from now on there will be a stable government in Spain and there will be a government that respects the legitimate interests of the Greeks, which are the interests that we have been asking for for a long time ago and which, unfortunately, have not been met in recent months. Galicia is and will always be a responsible and loyal autonomous community with the Government, the government that is presiding over the Central Government of Spain. The general elections have already been, indeed, the Spaniards have spoken. In the same way that the Greeks spoke in September 2016, there is a majority government in Galicia since 2016 and there is a government that needs to deal — we hope you will tell us who — in Spain from now on. The Union will work with the Government of Spain, and I ask you to work with the Government of Spain. We'd like to work together, it would be best. The Socialist Party pulled out more than the People's Party, and the People's Party has a Senator than the Socialist Party. So, ladies and gentlemen, yes, then I'll explain, but you have to appoint senators for autonomic designation. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So the Socialist Party has one less senator than the PP and one more MP than the PP. We hope to be able to work together for the sake of Galicia, I offer it from the very first moment. [[Murmurs.]] If you want to talk about housing, you shouldn't refer to my residence in Madrid, because if we're not going to talk about housing, and I'd like to talk about housing because for that I'm here, Your Honor, as President of Galicia. I, of course, am not going to tell you about his residence in Madrid because it seems absolutely inappropriate, and I tell you that we would miss him very much. So, Mr. Leicega, you stay in Galicia, it's a proposal with a certain authority that I propose. [[Murmurs.]] Stay in Galicia, Mr. Leicega, the same way I am in Galicia. [[Applause]] Mr. Leicega, the accounts of the budget execution are certainly not well set, because you have to put the accounts properly according to the State Housing Plan. In the State Housing Plan, you have to pay some things, as they're multi-yearly, for a year, and then the following. If we all paid for the first year, we would not comply with the State Housing Plan. So the budget execution of housing in Galicia, own funds of the Autonomous Community, is 88%; and in the funds coming from the State, execution is 91.02%. Look how we give him the data, even with decimals. Mr. Leicega, we have a housing park growing in rent, more than three thousand and five hundred homes. We're helping the younger ones, no doubt. We help the most disadvantaged. We avoid more than 2,000 defeats. We lowered the taxes to thirteen thousand Greeks to buy housing. In rural areas, zero taxes to buy housing for certain groups. We have a rehabilitation law, the first powerful rehabilitation law in the Autonomous Community, and we have residential soil to keep growing. You speak of Navia, I thank him for the reference. We invested 10 million euros in Navia to make a thousand six hundred protected homes. We just need the Town Hall to approve the partial plan, but the Vigo Town Hall, as is usual in close collaboration with the Galician Union, does not approve the partial plan. That's why it would be good, now that you have this euphoria, that you have approved the partial plan, to build a thousand six hundred homes in Vigo, where the Union is investing more than anywhere else. That's why, Your Honor, I'm surprised you're telling me about Navia, about protected housing, about protected soil and budget execution. Of course, Your Honor, all housing policies are better, but when we get to the Union...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u48	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u49	...there were twenty-five thousand waiting for a public housing and now there are thirteen thousand. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u51	First of all, thank you for your words on behalf of the People's Group and the Council of Galicia. I want to thank you for these words, which seem normal to me in a consolidated democratic situation like the one we have today. Democracy I think it's based on those who lose hope to win a little later, and, justly, it's about cordiality and respect for others, something that doesn't always happen in Spanish politics. And thank citizens above all, who have given a demonstration — I believe — these days, the day of vote, of tenderness and sensitization, in the face of the risks that a democracy like ours may have. [[Applause]] As far as the topic is concerned, I'm going to read you another, very brief document. It is a resolution adopted in the last debate on the state of autonomy at the initiative of our group, which we have negotiated with you and that you, together with your group, have also approved; which obliges the Galician Council — it has had to read it textually — to double the current five-year housing park, preferably in rent plans, addressing the collectives with more problems. It means placing in the market, to be able to fulfill it, six hundred lives a year for five years. It means mobilising 60 million euros every year! And do you know how much you actually spent the Galician Union in 2018? He had 7 million in the budget and spent 1.3 million. So, in order to fulfill what is promised through that resolution of the Autonomy State Debate, it would have to multiply by eight the available resources and by forty-three the actual expenditure. I'm waiting for you to answer me in this second intervention that you're planning to do to ensure this important quality leap. And you can't tell me things are working well because, in a program like helping rent, you know perfectly about the delays, which affect young people and affect the most needy. Last year, only 700,000 euros are executed, a 3.7 million program. And yes, three hundred and fifty Thursdays were helped, but there are four thousand applicants, four thousand applicants! and today, only three hundred and fifty. That's the rent help program and those are the run levels we have. So we need to change housing policies, focus on promoting public housing, promoting protected housing for all kinds, so that that greater supply, on a demand that is growing — because the economic situation is improving progressively and that is well — allow prices to be controlled; allow family effort, and specifically youth, to access housing to levels, to parameters, to be reasonable; allow the emancipation of our youth, which is a necessity, to be done in conditions of normality. And for that, we have to change housing policy and we have to change management systems, because otherwise they won't do it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u52	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u53	I remind you: Article 27 of the Galician Autonomy Statute, exclusive competence; Article 47 of the Spanish Constitution, right to a decent housing. It's up to you. It's up to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Leicega. Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Leicega. I cordially tell you, indeed, that those who lose always have expectations of winning. That's why you know enough, so today I congratulate you, because you've won, and that, naturally, is something remarkable. Mr. Leicega, let's not confuse budget execution again. The budget execution is done when the investment is believed. The budget execution is carried out annually, according to the rate of accreditation of the investment. But that's what the Junta de Galicia says, they tell the governments of Spain and the autonomous communities that we agreed on the State Housing Plan. The ratios I've just mentioned, of own funds, are executed at more than 88%. So don't mix things that aren't mixable. Mr. Leiceaga, three thousand five hundred houses in the rental park of the Union of Galicia, three thousand five hundred! In buildings of construction and rehabilitation, we're rehabilitating more than one hundred and eighteen buildings. Your Honor, when you talk about the youngest, four thousand help in the last two years. Mr. Leicega, it's good that you listen to me because it won't make the mistake you made when you said we were giving you dozens of help. No, four thousand help in the last two years! In 2018, two thousand and two hundred helpers. And in aid for acquisition, equally. As far as the disadvantaged are concerned, there's nothing there. We are one of the autonomous communities that soon activated agreements with financial institutions, establishing the empty housing program and placing rent bonds up to six years for people with more difficulties. We avoided 2 thousand defeats or 2 thousand throws. By the way, Your Honor, in the Empty Housing Program there is no government of the Socialist Party in the cities. Out, they don't want to know anything about the empty housing program! They're only Ourense and Santiago. It is surprising, Mr. Leicega, that he gives us kind of how we can help those who have the most difficulties. The Mortgage Relocation Program helps 100 percent of applicants. Rental charge, Social rental bonus, 225 euros per month for six years. Your Honor, this is what we had to shorten during the economic crisis. During the economic crisis there were no requests for new housing, which was the need to keep the homes they had, and that was the priority of our policy. Mr. Leicega, we are the only autonomous community that has no taxes in rural areas to acquire a housing; for example, the youngest or most numerous families. And we've taken more than 13,000 homes acquired in rural areas without paying a share of taxes, or lowering taxes by 25% elsewhere. We are the autonomous community with more areas of integral rehabilitation in Spain: one hundred sixty-seven areas of integral rehabilitation. That was supposed to help 50,000 families. Why is the obsession with making a new home if what is to rebuild and rehabilitate the millions of built housing we have in the autonomous community? Don't you realize that the paradigm has changed? It's not a matter of building to keep the floors empty, but of rehabilitating buildings where people are living. Fifty thousand, Mr. Leicega, fifty thousand! [[Applause]] Your Honor, and only for public housing: in Pontevedra, five hundred dwellings; in the Olympic Park of the Coruña, a thousand two hundred dwellings; in Bertón, in Ferrol, we delivered a thousand dwellings; in Garabolos, in Lugo, delivered nine hundred dwellings. And we return to San Paio de Navia again: we want to build a thousand six hundred houses. We put 10 million euros to expropriate the ground but they haven't approved the partial plan yet. We can't even bid that land to build housing and now you tell me that we have a shortage of housing! But, Mr. Leicega...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u56	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u57	...in the only county where you rule alone are blocking the possibility of building public housing continuously and repeatedly, and now you tell me if we run more or less housing! Mr. Leiceaga, I hope that now that Mr. Knight will come to the Chamber, do something of your own to the other Knight. It would be good for the homes in Vigo, if we could do it, Mr. Leicega. What you and I weren't able to achieve, maybe the new secretary general of the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u58	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u59	...is capable. But in any case, I've already told you that in the law that we are going to bring to this House — I hope — and I already ask you to vote for it, the surplus law, we want to put 3 million euros for housing. I hope, Your Honor, to count on the support of the Socialist Party to spend Galician money on needs...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u60	Thank you, thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u61	...two of the Greeks. And as the dwelling remains the necessity of the Greeks...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u62	Thank you. The president's finished...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u63	...I hope to have the support of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u64	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u65	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u66	Thank you very much. We continue with the agenda item. [[Murmurs.]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo and D. Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez, on the performances to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the business parks of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u67	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u68	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today we socialists bring a non-law proposal in which we once again demand that the Galician Union act with transparency, that the Galician Union cease to act as a recentralizing administration and respect the autonomy of local administrations. An autonomy which is collected in the legislation; an autonomy which Mr. Núñez Feijó's Galician Union forgets over and over again to place duties on the municipalities, those which it considers subordinate to the autonomous administration. See, ladies and gentlemen, the Autonomous Community of Galicia has the exclusive competence in Article 30 of its Autonomy Statute on the promotion and planning of Galicia's economic activity. And I stand in exclusive competition, I want to underline it, because the Galician Union on certain occasions prefers to forget what its obligations are and derive them from other administrations, in this case from the municipalities. The councils—and you should know why you have been debating in this House many times and sure that you too belong to some council—what you need and what you've been demanding for years is to address once and for all, by law, local funding. What they need is collaboration with the Autonomic Administration in terms of equality to help make countries among them all. What they don't need is guardianship; they don't need guardianship. [[Applause]] The Socialist Parliamentary Group agrees that the promotion and planning of Galicia's economic activity requires collaboration between the Union and the municipalities, and that is what we fully agree with. Planning is absolutely necessary, joint work is absolutely necessary, because we have a very important, too important challenge in the future. We cannot continue to lose population at the rate that has been lost in these ten years of Mr. Núñez Feijóo's government. I remind you that there are almost 90,000 less people. And I want to remind you that more than 22,000 people under the age of 40 in ten years of Mr. Núñez Feijóo's government. We have the challenge of regaining the level of occupations at least at 2009 levels so that the population will not continue to emigrate. Today we have eighty-eight thousand three hundred busy less than in the same quarter of 2009. We have the challenge of recovering, at least, the level of employment in the 2009 industry. Today we have thirty-six thousand eight hundred people in the industry less than in the same quarter of 2009. And last year, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, if we look at the fourth quarter of 2017 with respect to the fourth quarter of 2018, the loss of jobs in the industry in Galicia is three thousand six hundred less. I mean, we're down 1.3%, while in the state as a whole we grow to 2.3%. [[Applause]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, stop looking elsewhere and stop putting on other people's duties. They assume their skills, plan and collaborate. The Greek municipalities are the perfect allies in terms of equality. And as a fellow of mine says, I'm not going to name it, but they know it perfectly: here always is the guest board and the municipalities pay. [[Applause]] The Economic Council put into operation the Going Business Galicia Office in 2016 and on 10 October 2017 the Gounta de Galicia and the Galega Federation of Municipalities and Provinces signed an action protocol to encourage the implementation and fixing of companies in Galicia through the creation of this initiative. This protocol places a number of duties on municipalities, such as administrative simplification and speeding up procedures with a maximum of thirty days, modification of the legal regime for opening and licensing of municipal works by prior communication and a modification in their tax regime, modifying the tax orders and for three years in the IBI a bonus that can reach 95%, in the IEA a 95% bonus, in the ICIO a 95% bonus, eliminate the rates of delivery of urban or equivalent services and the elimination of the rate for opening up establishments; in addition, set competitive prices in the company plots, establishing bonuses. That is, local farms, which have claimed precisely more resources for their municipal buildings, which are already insufficient in themselves, in order to provide a level of public services suitable to their population, have to give up an important part of their most important income. What about the Galician board that gives them in return? Well, in exchange for positive discrimination with a minimum of 20%, we will be able to score in employment worker subsidies, hire employment agents, integrated employment programmes, support for business parks, industrial farmers or aid for excellent markets, be able to integrate the industrial soil of its ownership into a business soil observatory in the Galician Union and the creation of a territorial brand. These measures have been included — that is true — in the paper and you always create paper rights. They're pretty good at that. They cannot be denied, because they approve Law 5/2017, to promote the implementation of business initiatives in Galicia. In September 2018 we asked Commission 3a to be interested in the evolution of these measures implemented by the Council of Galicia, as well as an assessment of the fact up to that time, which had already been a year and peak of implementation. In this session, the secretary-general expressed the enthusiasm of the Galician board in the implementation of this system and informed us that at that time there were 104 municipalities attached. It is true that he expressed it, because he did not provide us with any study and any report that could support his speech and at the same time collaborate with the work of these Members and Members, who are true that we are in the opposition — we hope that for a short time — but that we have as much right as those of the Government to handle at least the figures with which the Government of Galicia works. Looking at the website of the Galician Union, the truth is that, once again, with a lot of traps and a lot of losses, we found the number of city halls entrepreneurs. It's true that it was also an information that a few days ago did not appear, but paradoxically seven days ago it was hung by the Galician Union; one shows more of the opacity level of the Galician Union or one shows more about how the Galician Union understands transparency. Well, the data published seven days ago tell us that there are 121 municipalities attached to this initiative (28 de la Coruña, 19 de Lugo, 55 de Ourense and 19 de Pontevedra). By the way, only 30 of these municipalities appear on the map of business parks of the Galego da Vivenda e Solo Institute, and on the map of business parks, which appear 121 parks, there are 87 municipalities, of which 56 are not members. Well, also in the Observatory, which was one of the star measures, it was -- let's say -- that wonder that they would also be made to the municipalities and it was a very publicized measure, and among their objectives are the assessment of the needs of the sector, the proposals for action and the issuance of periodic reports -- because, once again, the socialists were unable — probably by our incompetence — to see nothing on the website where the activity carried out by this observatory over these two years. I understand that maybe we don't look right, I hope the People's Party representative explains to us how we have to do it. But we believe that the websites have to comply with that Transparency Act, which was passed mostly by the People's Party in this House, must be intuitive, dynamic and agile to find the information required. We really don't understand why they always have to do such an opaque and so against what the Transparency Law itself is. We in this non-law proposal will bring something simple and we would not understand — no one would understand — that it was not approved by the majority party of this House. We ask for reports, studies, a study on the number of companies located in the city halls and welcomed to this initiative, a study on the advantages achieved by companies located in the business parks hosted by this initiative, drawing up a study before this current period of sessions on the needs of all the Greek parks with the aim of developing a five-year improvement plan, an improvement plan for all the business parks, a distribution of which are the specialities that need or need each business park and perhaps for some other use, because in some of them they know perfectly that what they are doing is to grow toxos and slaughterhouses, which are not the fundamental purpose of a business park. So we're talking about data, reports, reports that can prove to us that those measures that you've approved and are implementing are correct or there's a need to correct them, and maybe we have to deal with other issues that you're not considering. And besides, it's data and reports that should help us in making decisions, in making decisions, something important.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u70	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u71	I'm done, Mr. President. Well, for this first intervention, I think that's what I meant. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u73	Good morning to all and to all. Well, the question we are debating today has a basic problem that we must put on the table: it is the absolute absence of an industrial policy planned by the Greek Government, because the only industrial policy they know is absolute deregulation, deregulation and nothing but deregulation. And that has led us to a real policy of industrial demolition, and the data are there. Beyond the data of the decade or the last year that gave the voice of the Socialist Party, the fact is that the trend is nowhere to catch it. We can see the last EPA and it's precisely in industrial employment where the biggest increase in unemployment is in relation to the previous quarter: three thousand people. And also compared to the same quarter of 2018 we see an increase in unemployment of more than 500 people. So there's no way to get it, the contrasting period is opposite. And this shows a lot of questions. It demonstrates that policy of industrial demolition, but it also shows something that we have already predicted, which is the most reprehensible failure of the Business Implementation Act, more known as the Predation Act, which was sold to us in 2017. And you have to make a little memory of how that law was born. It was born as a necessity of advertising and propaganda from a government that has been denying the relocation to Portugal of vector sectors of our economy like that of automotive, and when it was already unsustainable that they continued in their ivory tower denying that reality, because they had to get out of the drawer this law to do what they did; a Frankenstein law in which more than twenty laws of all kinds and matters even — I want to remember — of the Heritage Law itself, which gives an idea of what it was. But from these poles, we have these muds. And one of the issues that I've been doing since BNG when we discussed that law was exactly how it affected the municipalities, first because it was undermining their competences, because it was taking out of supramunipality for everything, so that it could favor these big companies like Ence, like Toysal, when they had some council that opposed their projects. And secondly, because they were almost exclusively responsible for the councils of this country — councils of all kinds, underfinanced councils and municipalities with a completely different reality — for the industrial policy of this country, which we looked like a nonsense. And from there comes that fantasy of the Doing Business that already promised us Mr. Núñez Feijó in his investment speech, that there would be an office that would solve everything; then that was a tab on the website of the Economics, Employment and Industry Council; and then that figure of the Doing Business Town Council was born. And we criticized, among other issues, which was born without any planning, without mapping the needs of this country. Because we have industrial polygons in Ourense, for example -- I won't say with a proper internet speed -- closed, without electrical power connections. But we have other realities, we have an obvious problem of lack of industrial soil in the south of Pontevedra, but we also have municipalities on the gold part that limit that have space and that is not encouraged and taken advantage of. We also have other realities like, for example, going north, one of the industrial poles in the north of our country, The Bridges, which has a serious industrial soil problem when you have companies that are asking for it and that are expanding to other areas because they are not given a solution. Finally, a country with many needs that have not been evaluated and which are not ordered by the interests of the People's Party. We also criticized him as being late. He was late because Portugal had been making a specific policy of collaboration with the municipalities in this area for five years. But, above all, the slowness with which this walks and the lack of transparency and objective data to assess whether it works because it really works, and therefore we are in favour of this initiative and add a question, which is to make an in-depth annual assessment of the functioning of this Frankenstein law, the Business Implementation Act, in all aspects it touches. But I want to finish by fincapé on a question that I think is important, which is the blackmail that was submitted by the Galician Board to the Greek Councils with this Doing Business protocol. It is a protocol in which there are BNG councils that have joined, but which have adhered precisely to the fear of being able to stay out of help, opportunities and issues that would be limited only to Doing Business Councils and that sometimes do not have to do with the need for industrial soil that was justified, for example employment workers that many municipalities will not be able to assume simply because they do not have that issue of industrial soil. And the fact is, today, half of what we have in our country, there are 121, but if we see it through the territory and distribution, it also gives us an idea of this failure, because precisely municipalities in the most industrialized area there are few, more industrialized areas, but that's not being used to bridge the constant deindustrialization of our country's interior, and so it's an example that it doesn't work. And I'm done. Mr. Verea Fraiz, Technical Director General of the Galician Council, was recently told when he appeared to report on this issue in the Commission, I can't remember any more if I have 3rd if 6th, that this was a loyal and solvent collaboration. For us loyal it has become clear that it is not, but solvent, because we will have to prove it, and therefore we are confident that, since we are downgrading the level we are asking for only studies in this German Parliament, because the Greek Government is accessing it and that we can therefore give a rational debate. I'm afraid you won't, Madam Voicer of the Socialist Party, because that would return to them with the image that they are failing in the drive of this country's industry, but, in any case, we will be optimistic like you and we will support the initiative regardless of whether or not you accept it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u75	Thank you, Mr. President. Two years ago, in March 2017, this group made a proposal in this plenary to correct the disunity of the promotion of industrial soil between Xestur, dependent on the Galician Union, and Sepes, dependent on the Ministry of Development. The reality is that nothing has been done in these two years before a reality that was already serious in 2017 and that is now inescapable. That's why we were asking for the development of an industrial soil map in Galicia at that time, as this GNP also proposed, so obviously we're going to support it. But in those two years nothing was done either. Every time we hear the Industry Advisor, there's no industrial problem in Galicia, there's no industrial policy problem and much less industrial employment. I no longer repeat the figures that the spokesman of the Socialist Party commented on, because then the adviser comes to say that everything is a lie, that all the statistics of the INE, the IGE, of all the statistical institutions of the state and Galicia are wrong, that industrial employment is being created so that, if we hear the ratio of thousands of jobs that are created, there would be no industrial unemployment in Galicia. This is just one part of industrial policy. Obviously, if there is no development of industrial policy, that we have never heard of any single concrete proposal, much less there is one of its legs, which is the management of industrial soil, which, as we have already requested two years ago, should exercise the Council of Galicia, but, of course, as there is no interest in asking for any kind of transfers... we have requested it two years ago and I am sure that the State would be willing to transfer the entire policy of industrial soil to the Council of Galicia. And that it doesn't continue to happen what's happening right now, that one park is perhaps fifteen or twenty miles away and the prices are totally different, even double between each other. This doesn't make any sense. That's why we're claiming again that the Galician Council calls for the transfer of industrial soil management to the state and that Xestur assumes it completely. This would make it easier for the development of all these policies to be done from Galicia, which is where it has to be done, knowing reality, and not going through what was going on with many polygons developed by Sepes, which are practically inviolable. That cannot and does not mean that the Galician Union has to assume this full management, in order to be able to dominate areas with less growth, with worse access to communication infrastructures, etc., by solving all those problems. Because the reality is that the industrial development of the near future is going to be very linked to agribusiness. It is undoubtedly happening all over the world: all industrial development in industry and healthy agriculture has a huge future, and it can't be that in Galicia all this change is not being predicted that is taking place in all the industrial situation around the world. And from there, besides, developing a plan to improve services, access, sustainability, which has many environmental problems, in many of the polygons, the mobility of the most busy. It's terrible the situation... - Yes, it's true, there's a heat that no one can hold here. [[Murmurs.]] A very important subject, too, mobility in the most busy. We have a problem, especially in the parks in the Vigo area, in the Coruña area, which is absolutely impossible for people to go to work in a comfortable way, and it's a situation that needs to be taken immediately. And now I'm going to talk about this, too, because the Socialist Party spokesperson asks for a statistic on the incidence of Doing Business Galicia, that pomposia strategy. It seems here that when you put a name in English, anything happens to make sense. The reality of what's happening is that, again, as the development of the Galician Predation Act does, the Dog Business Strategy Galicia is not favoring — and that's why they won't give you that statistic — at all industrial development in Galician industrial parks, no. What you're doing is giving money to energy companies, mining companies and forest derivatives companies, which is the fundamental goal of that law, giving them money, from the municipalities that need them for other things, because wind farms are not going to mount elsewhere, they're going to mount where they have the concession. To give them all the municipal taxes that they would have to pay is absolutely indecent, because they're already getting rid of the wind canon by that rule that now three 3.3 megawatts mills are equivalent to twenty-five that were before and they don't pay anything anymore, they don't pay wind canon anymore, but now the Galician Union is not paying any municipal taxes either. That's truly intolerable, because that doesn't make industrial development; that's to give money to people who had no other remedy than to be implanted in those areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u76	Thank you, Mr. Casal. We now welcome students from the Alfonso X Centre The Room Wisdom — they are students from the administration and finance cycle — and their supporters, who are in Parliament today. Welcome to Parliament. Have a nice day. I now give the floor to Mrs Vázquez Domínguez for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Welcome also to all the students who accompany us. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal has already been tabled and discussed in Commission 3a. We thank you again for bringing it to the proposed group, the Group of the Socialist Party of Galicia, and so we remember what they voted against. Seen, the Popular Parliamentary Group, in October 2017, supported the Law on the Promotion of Entrepreneurship Measures in Galicia. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, Mr. Casal and Mrs. Presas, voted against the three main objectives of this law. I'm going to remind you, one by one, so we're going to remember what they voted against. They opposed the sale of business soil, opposed administrative simplification, and, in addition, opposed tax subsidies. They voted against Galicia's industrial policy; now, as you see, the results are satisfactory, they ask for reports; we thank you. Look, the initiative of Galician entrepreneurs is the result of collaboration between the Galician Union and Fegamp, in order to boost the strengthening of the business fabric of our Community. The primary objective of this law, ladies and gentlemen, is to add effort and actively collaborate in the creation of economic activity and increase the level of employment, Mr Casal, always on the basis of responsible and respectful use of our resources. This initiative therefore reflects the sum of efforts between autonomous and local administrations to capture investment and be open to all who share this objective. Look, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, clarity is the data, and above all transparency. Galicia has 121 entrepreneurial municipalities, of all political colors, of all political colors. Perhaps they are now regretting to oppose the Business Initiatives Promotion Act. They're late, but welcome. I'm going to give them the data, because they're asking for them in the PNL. They're available for you to have us. Or do any of you trust the National Institute of Statistics or the IGE? According to IGE data, more than 11 companies were launched every day in 2018. And, in total, Mrs Presas, 4,049 companies, and almost 13 every day in the first quarter of the year 2019, a total of 1,139 companies. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, you don't like the data. Here you go. Mr. Casal, you said nothing was done. Listen, don't you trust data from the College of Registrars then? The number of societies that in 2018 moved their headquarters from other communities to Galicia was positive. But I'm going to give you more -- with a lot more intensity in the first quarter of the year 2019. They came 158, against 64 they left. Transparency, ladies and gentlemen. They have the data available, just like I could get them. I beg the same struggle for companies at risk of closure for their lack of transparency, work and rigour, both by the Central Government to Ence and Alcoa. Stop looking at Madrid and look at Galicia. [[Applause]] Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, I'm going to give you examples of great projects: PSA, Star Galicia, Finsa, Coren and Entrepinares. I don't know if you like them. At the moment they add investments worth more than two billion euros, which are being executed in Galicia in the industrial sector. The first quarter of the year 2019 closes with more jobs. Mr. Casal, you said you didn't create a job. Less than a year ago, EPA being the best in the beginning of the last season. We've been counting more than thirty thousand busy last year. You don't like them? I'm still. So they're meeting the goals of the Galician Union. He did it when he set in motion the law on the implementation of business measures. Between 2015 and 2018 more than 1.45 million square meters of soil were allocated to the dependent business parks of the Galician Union. This has resulted in an investment by companies of more than 375 million euros, and thanks to it it is possible to create more than 6 billion jobs. In February of that same year, more than 1.25 million square meters were made available at a bonus price of 50%. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, I will remind you of what the two-party government has done: it has achieved for its own merits, especially for its own merits, to ruin Xestur Galicia. Look, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, not to see the weeds and the toxos of what you were talking about, work so they don't shut down companies and traffic companies so they can settle down in our autonomous community. From the People's Parliamentary Group we welcome the benefits of the Act on the introduction of business measures. Total transparency. INE data: more than eleven companies every day in 2018. A law with three objectives: greater ease for businesses, greater administrative simplification and greater industrial soil bonus. And at the third point, at which you were asking for an improvement plan, see, the DDG of January, which you were commenting on — I have here — you published the call at which the Galician Board invests this year EUR 5.5 million in improving the infrastructure of the business parks and in the creation of industrial farmers, where 61 projects are planned to be supported, mobilise more than EUR 7 million and generate 144 jobs. [[Mr Vázquez Domínguez shows a document.]] If the Central Socialist Government's industrial policy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u78	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u79	...if it looks like the industrial policy of the German Government, Ence and Alcoa wouldn't be in the situation they're in. From the People's Parliamentary Group we encourage them to continue to work for the Greeks and for the Greeks, as the German Government does, and leave excuses for another moment. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u80	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez. Group author of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is you just used a data that I didn't intend to use, not for nothing, but it was just because I didn't give myself time. We also know to consult official data, don't think it's just the People's Party's merit, eh! [[Applause]] But it's just that it makes me funny, because with respect to commercial societies constituted according to province and legal form, Galicia, all of Galicia, you used 2018, but look, what it doesn't say is that in 2018 980 less than in 2017, in one year. Official data, IGE statistics. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo shows a document.]] And in capital, 46 million euros less. Therefore, the data does not support them. They endorse what we have just stated here saying that the industrial policy of the People's Party in the Union of Galicia is non-existent and, in addition, that they want to derive and send to the municipalities the obligations that correspond to you. Look, by the way, I also forgot to say or if you forgot to say, though something has already pointed out, that those who were attached were of all political colors. Man, I'd just be missing, I'd just be missing! But the truth is, although they are of all political colors, Mrs. Sandra, the subsidies aimed at the creation of industrial farmers in business parks in 2018 were three municipalities, three, of the People's Party; three of the People's Party; that is, 701,000 euros, which took only the Town Councils of the People's Party; and in 2018 the empowerment and improvement of business parks infrastructures, 50% were also of the People's Party. That forgot to say. Look, I also have to tell you that the adequacy of the training of the workforce to the offer of the jobs offered by those companies that are implanted is absolutely necessary. It doesn't just happen by setting up companies, you have to train the workers so they can take up the jobs that these companies offer, something that would avoid what I said at first: both the population indentation that pointed out as the alarming drop in the number of people in general and the number of people in the industry and, in particular, to recover levels, at least in 2009. Look, I'm just going to tell you some press notes these days. See, April 18, "The Welsh metal only covers one third of the vacancies despite good wages." You know why it is, don't you, you know why it is? "The Galician naval companies only capture one hundred and ninety-five stops to cover a thousand and two hundred vacant posts." You know why it is, don't you? Because the policy of the Galician Union is not concerned with forming skilled labour so that they can be used in these jobs, which are today's great demand niche in our country. And look, I'll also remind you of another: "The part-day beats records and adds 40% of the job created in the last year of Galicia." These are your data and your results. By the way, of the municipalities that joined me, which, look, I also looked for them, and I also found them, after a lot of work -- I told him at the beginning of my intervention -- seven days ago they were hanged, seven days they were hanged -- don't laugh! -- seven days, put it here, because eight days ago they weren't. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo shows a document.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u82	Quiet, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u83	Look, Mr Pazos, I know you're very nervous, but, whenever you want, you get out here and talk.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u84	About the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u85	They weren't hanging, they weren't hanging. [[Applause]] But look, the truth is, it's curious, because out of the seven cities of Greece there is no accession, not even Ourense, where you rule; therefore, that plan should not be so wonderful.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u86	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u87	And look, my question is, apart from all this, when you're going to solve the problems of existing business parks, for example access to Vimianzo, PLISAN's blockade or the planning of their needs.Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Time's up. Will you accept the amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group? Accept it. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. Before we discuss the following proposal, let me tell you: We're going to give you gas back to the air conditioner. I say it because it's a situation that's hard to control. I want to warn you, because when you're going in and out, going in and out, it's impossible to keep a temperature. So, let's go get some gas. Tighten up, warm up a little, because it's impossible. We can't always be cold, I'm hot, I'm cold, I'm hot. [[Murmurs.]] So we're going to gas it so that there's such an atmosphere, but get a little tight. Okay. We continue. [[Murmurs.]] They're being warned. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the possible relocation of the United States company in Ourense, which provides services for Naturgy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u89	Amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the People's Parliamentary Group have been tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u90	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u91	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. First of all, I would like to greet the United States Business Committee, which will be accompanying us in a few minutes in the rostrum. Ana, the Marga, the Teresca, Bethlehem, Miriam, Mary, the Sardinian and by extension to all the comrades and comrades of the United States in Ourense, who are currently following this debate or are at their workplace taking calls. All of them and them, thank you, thanks for this effort you're making. I'm convinced this battle is going to win. Ladies and gentlemen, United States is a company located in Ourense, in the technological park, where 131 people work, and on which there is now a serious threat of relocation. I want you to look at the figure I just gave: 131 jobs; it's a considerable staff picture. At any point in the country this situation would be a very complex and serious situation, but I am not convinced that it is populism or localism when I say loudly that this in Ourense would be an even more serious problem, taking into account, on the one hand, the average size of companies in Ourense and, on the other hand, the socio-economic situation in Ourense, which, after four decades of most of the People's Party in almost all institutions, leaves much to be desired. We can see it, for example, in EPA's latest data: it's nineteen hundred unemployed and unemployed in March and more than two thousand three hundred since January; a province that currently has more pensioners than active workers and a constant loss of population. We're also talking about a company in which, as usual in the sector, women are mostly women, and we have to say that in this case both women and male staff break one of the most common statistics in the sector, which is the middle age. It exceeds that average age 25-30 years, which is a majority in global terms in the sector. Therefore, if there is a closure, the difficulty of placing my comrades and companions will be very high. And I insist: most, women, with the added difficulty that we have because of the discrimination that is done to us in the labour sector. This company has opened a decade ago in Ourense and an important part of the staff, some of the people who are listening to us, have been in it ever since. It's a single-client platform. Today this company continues to deny a copy of the UK terms of employment with the final customer, but we know it's only Naturgy, the old Fenosa Natural Gas. For all these years, they worked exclusively for this client. They actually started doing it next to Velle's coronation, until, in legal matters, they took off, as the law marks, the subcontract of the matrix and went into the polygon. These workers and workers survived the worst moment of the economic crisis, they also survived an ERTE in 2013, thanks to the effort they put into their hands, reducing shifts and reducing days, and, although now we're talking about 131, we also have to remember that at some point this company has over 200 workers at other times. Historically, the United States has dedicated itself to paying attention to the customer care services of regulated trade, to regulated trade in Gas Natural Fenosa, and to a lesser extent also to customer care in Portugal, when it began to emerge this market once the Luso was liberalized. And for a few months now, the company committee, and by extension, workers and workers, are having a great deal of concern, a great concern that began with a significant downsizing of the volume of calls. It is true that in this sector it is quite common that there are cycles, but also, as the company itself began to make gas training, because they thought it might be a temporary issue, but the fact is that what seemed temporary started to seem constant, and the alarms went off, the issue did not improve and the company itself adopted the ostrich strategy, something that did not contribute to calming the staff frame. Besides, there were more indications that something was happening. When you take a call in this work, it's something like when we look for an initiative in the implementation of Parliament; here we see its history, there we see if any parliamentary group has gone along and we see other issues. For my companions and colleagues began to see what is called typifications, both from Reus and Colombia, and therefore also began to increase these alerts. In October, by putting a data on the table, this platform managed over ninety-nine thousand calls and in March they managed just over seventy-seven thousand calls, that is, a fall of more than thirty thousand. That's what happens. We have evidence, like those managements in Colombia, those managements in Reus, and of course what we're living in is a manual relocation, but even more, despite the company's negatives, we've had more news about it. We have here news that the United States opened a platform in Reus with more than one hundred and fifty jobs. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantiños shows a document.]] We also have screenshots of InfoJobs' offers here, where they even valued Welsh as a positive value for those job offers, which also puts more alerts on the table, because that's why they want to take the plant out. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantiños shows a document.]] And in view of this situation, since the works council called for arrests on 8 and 10 April, which were assisted by 100% of the staff. I want for a moment the people who are listening to us stop thinking about what it means in economic terms, when these people charge an average of 700 euros a month, to have to make these stops. It's a difficult decision, a decision that they make because they're worried and worried, and to all of them I want to tell them I'm proud of us and that we will of course not stop standing by them until I'm assured that the United States doesn't leave Ourense and that the jobs are maintained. After these mobilisations, neither did the company, nor did the UK nor Naturgy make any kind of commitment that could give some tranquillity; they only stated that, at most, they could sign a commitment that in the next two months they would not take any action against the workers, which logically is absolutely insufficient and also makes us suspect that the strategy is to take out services progressively, gradually undermining the workforce of workers, until there is no other one left to close. And we want to insist today that we're playing a lot in Ourense, but we're playing a lot more. U.K. also has, through Advanced, a platform in Coruña, which at present the problem that they have is not a burden of work, is of working conditions and relationships, but nobody tells us that it can be free of this as well. In any case, today we want to insist that Ourense, of course, cannot afford this blow. We have companions and companions of the city, of Paderne de Allariz; we have companions and companions of San Cibrao, of the Pereiro, of Vilar de Barrio, of all the surroundings, of Maceda, of Barbados—and I certainly forget many municipalities—but with this what I want to remember is that the impact would be enormous. We have companions and colleagues who could start retirement in the next few years even in this company, which considering what usually happens with telemarketing is almost a miracle. And we have companions and companions who, despite the precariousness of their conditions, have managed to carry out their life plan in Ourense; as a companion says, we already have nearly second-generation units. And to all of them and to all of them, and to those who will come, we must at this moment be up to the circumstances, and the truth is, despite the complicated situation, we have many points in favor, we have many points to put on the table for a positive exit. First, United States is the leader in the sector. The company itself recognizes that it is the most profitable platform in the whole state, that they constantly, year by year, receive prizes for the quality of service and for the effectiveness of care. This has already reached the point where we saw the peak of the hives, which is that they have led staff from the United States Ourense to form the future staff of the United States Reus. Secondly, we're talking about a platform that's customer care, and that's fundamental, because this platform doesn't sell, because this platform doesn't have the circumstances that other ones we've been talking about here, like Vodafone or Bosch, to which I also want to send our spirits from here. This platform makes customer care, a service that will continue to exist and which is not subject to market rules, and which, therefore, we have instruments to demand that it remain in Galicia, because it is also undeniable that cultural and linguistic proximity facilitates attention, less the proximity of time, which even makes good understanding with platforms in Latin America difficult. And finally, we're also talking about a client who's not an ordinary customer, we're talking about Naturgy, about the old Fenosa Natural Gas. I will no longer refer to that this company has been on its theoretically Welsh day, but it is a company that is exploiting our natural resources. I want to remember that Ourense has 50% of the big hydraulics in the whole country, and therefore they owe them something; a company that billed more than two hundred million euros for net profit last year, a real scandal. But also an opportunity. I was saying the other day to the absent advisor of Economics, Employment and Industry in another debate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u92	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u93	...that gives us the chance that the German Government, if you want to be in touch with the circumstances, take the phone, raise the phone and demand that Naturgy keep the jobs in Ourense. We therefore hope that today this initiative will bring the unanimous agreement of all Members and Members and send a clear message that the United States is not leaving Ourense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u94	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. By the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u95	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies. I would also like to begin today by greeting the United States Business Committee and also conveying solidarity on behalf of the Socialist Group. We share your concern, so we will also ask the Industry Advisor who plans to do the German Government to halt the relocation and loss of these jobs. I also want, at the doors of May 1st, to tell you and convey our congratulations, because you are a fighting and responsible company committee. Fighter, because before the first signs of job loss you didn't get your arms crossed, you resorted to mobilizations, those unemployed people who have already been commented on here, who were a real success. Responsible, because for ten years you've been looking for dialogue and consensus at all times, even accepting a hard ERTE in 2013, resolved before the planned effort and work, or even unpaid permits during the summer to try to save those jobs. On the contrary, the company's attitude is scurantist and malicious in all this matter. Efforts that you have made to prevent the materialization of what would be a tough stick, not only for your families, but for the whole province of Ourense, which has the lowest rate of activity throughout Spain, which in the last quarter has risen unemployment to twenty-five jobs a day that have been lost. And, of course, there are some Members and Members of the Ourense People's Party who are apologizing when we talk about the province, and instead of apologizing, it would be good if they did something when they were ruling in the Town Hall of San Cibrao, in the House of Ourense and also in the Government of Greece, which is responsible for the industrial policy of this country. It's nothing new. It's a highly feminized sector, with low wages, with a stressful, unstable and monotonous work, where there's no internal promotion and it ends up even frustrating. It is also one of the most remarkable reflections that the new generations have been the most affected by the economic crisis and labour reform. Salaries around the thousand euros, for people working thirty-nine hours a week, which was something that to me, when they met with these workers, called my attention. The maximum number of days is thirty-nine hours, and it turns out that of the 121 workers there are only eight people who have this day; that is, 6% of the staff, because the remaining 94% are workers who in many cases have been working for ten years at this job by twenty-five or twenty hours a week, who have a salary of between 600 and seven hundred euros. Of course, the logic would be to look for other jobs to match, but it turns out to be an impossible mission, because, among other things, those changing schedules that often have. There are also many complaints — and it's a subject of little talk — about occupational health and the psychosocial risks that are present in these jobs and also about those lows for anxiety and depression, which are usual. Workers who, in addition to having a difficult job, must suffer that pressure from the relocation of services to countries with lower wages, something that has already caused hundreds of redundancies in our autonomous community. If it is serious that Naturgy, with benefits — which have already been commented upon here — of more than two hundred million euros in 2016, which is expected to rise also during this year, which he claims with advertising and propaganda of his false Galeguity, intends to lower the costs of subcontracting companies that intend to shorten the rights of workers and workers, to maximize the benefits, we believe that it is still more than the Council itself, the German Government itself is subcontracting directly or indirectly telemarketing companies that do not respect the rights of workers, companies that are not even located in our autonomous community. Madam President, by fully sharing your initiative, we have made an amendment to complement it, so that, in addition to demanding the Council of Galicia to put the points on the is, once it stands in front of Naturgy, against the United States as well. We believe it is important that it is the administration itself to preach with the example, including during this legislation as indispensable requirements in recruiting all the services of the autonomous administration that, in the case that companies that have call services, are themselves or are subcontracted, lend themselves from our autonomous community, lend themselves from Galicia, both at the time of adjudication and also during the entire period of contract that they have with the autonomous administration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u96	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u97	Also, of course, something that has already been taken up on the initiative: that this telephone service should be kept in English. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u98	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanco. The People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia has the floor, Mrs. Novoa Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u99	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. First of all, I would like to begin by greeting the United States Business Committee, present here today in Parliament's rostrum, and by congratulating them, of course, on the responsibility with which they are dealing with this important labour conflict in their company. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Group wishes to express its regret at the situation they are experiencing in the United States telemarketing company, located in Galician technological park, in the municipality of San Cibrao das Viñas, in Ourense province, the position of lords, which affects one hundred thirty workers and workers of the municipality of San Cibrao, but also other surrounding municipalities — of Paderne, Barbados, Pereiro — even of the city. As the previous Members have told me, UK is a telemarketing company, but it has a peculiarity, since it works entirely for the company Naturgy, specifically for the regulated market, and the only ones who respond to the calls of this company. One hundred and thirty workers, most women, and almost all of them indefinite, formed and very solvents, who were even congratulated by the Naturgy group themselves for their good performance, but who for some time have been seeing how the calls have diminished, and have to learn beyond that their UK company opened another seat in Reus and checking how they were responding to the same calls that they have only been paying attention since now from St. Cibrao's Town Hall. As I said before, one hundred thirty very skilled workers and workers, who can even assume greater workload, in case it was necessary, and which is therefore not understood why this process of hidden relocation of this company from my municipality of San Cibrao das Viñas is not understood. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we are concerned about the situation and share the concern of the company's workers. I would also like to value the agility with which this conflict is being dealt with from all administrations. The works committee was received by the mayors of the municipalities concerned, including the city council, and also by the president of the Parliament, and approved in the corresponding full institutional statements against the possible closure of the United States; and of course, ladies and gentlemen, they were also received by the Government of Galicia, specifically by the Director General of Employment, only one week after the complaint of the conflict. Madam President, we agree with much of your initiative and therefore propose a replacement amendment, which would little change part of your initiative. I'd change points 1 and 2, we'd reject points 4 and we'd accept points 3 and 5. Then I'll explain the corresponding reasons. We propose as number 1 to carry out the appropriate management in order to determine the reasons for the intention of relocation and the situation of the company in Ourense, and to make available the collaboration of the Galician Union in order to maintain the activity of the United States company on its platform located in the Ourense technology park, highlighting that the Middle Galician Union and helping in the search for a solution to this problem, and in fact it is doing so from the very first moment, being received by the Director General of Employment a few days after getting to know the problem. And not only the committee, but also the Galician board is keeping in touch with the United States company, it's in constant contact with the company to work to get a job load other than that of Naturgy, if that's the case. As for point 2, the Popular Group proposes to carry out management with Gas Natural Fenosa-Naturgy in order to demand that it guarantee the necessary workload for the maintenance of the UK company in Ourense and the existing jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have deleted the phrase "taking pressure measures", since the Galician Union always acts within the institutional respect and within the existing legality and, of course, how the entire Administration should do. [[Murmurs.]] With regard to points 3 and 5, we reiterate that in our amendment to its initiative we insist that a table should be set up, and a table where the Administration, the company, the works committee and, ladies and gentlemen, not political representatives are present. That's the proposal, and I repeat: dialogue has been since minute one. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also true that the telemarketing sector is going through a difficult situation, and that is why we agree with you to do a study that analyses the sector; so we support your point 5. As for point 4 — I leave to the end the theme of Greek — just to tell them — and I insist, ladies and gentlemen — that we have already repeated it several times in this gallery: the language in Galicia is not a problem, ladies, rather; Galicia is a model of cordial, harmonic bilingualism, in which two official languages live in balance and the Greeks and the Greeks can express themselves freely in the language they want. This is because the German Government complies with the laws, lordships, abides by the Constitution, the Statute of Self-Government and the Law of Linguistic Standardization and always guarantees the right of everyone to express themselves in the language they wish. I would also like to remind you that the Galego Institute of Consumption and Competition guarantees the rights of the people of Greece also in linguistic matters, to use either of the two official languages of the Autonomous Community, and, in fact, there are claims on this subject. That's why, Mrs. Presas, I think this is an important issue that affects the employment of our province of Ourense...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u100	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u101	...and that deserves a unanimous agreement. I believe that an important effort has been made from this group to support its initiative. I also believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the workers of the United States today deserve to leave here with an initiative adopted by all, unanimously. So I'm starting to negotiate and we're taking this issue out with a majority agreement. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u102	Thank you very much, Mrs. Novoa. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u103	Thank you. I also want to greet the comrades and colleagues of the U.S. Business Committee of Ourense, send them all our support, of course, all our strength; they are giving us an example of dialogue, trying to reach agreements and constant mobilization and unitary work. Of course, we are going to vote in favour of this initiative. This is not the first time we have discussed in this Parliament about the situation of telemarketing, nor is it the first time we have talked about the situation that goes through the United States. The truth is that we are glad that the Galician Union seems to change its position a little bit, because in all these weeks we have been talking about this subject often refuse to listen systematically, voted against proposals that are going to vote in principle in favour, and we rejoice because, as I say, the situation of telemarketing is very alarming, and the United States is just one example. We've been saying that many times. When we talked about Bosch in Vigo, we mentioned it. I'm sure other companies with problems will show up, because it's not the first time or it'll be the last time, and a week later we've seen the situation of Ourense workers. And again, the cause of the problem, as we said, is relocation, and there are many measures and there is legislation that can be approved for relocation to end. All it takes is political will and taking the problem seriously, because there are often speeches going on one side and then politics going on the other. Just like the problem of precariousness, there is a major cause that companies consider themselves to be entitled to exploit workers, which are the labour reforms of the People's Party and the Socialist Party. If labour reforms are not exceeded, surely we are moving forward with only patchwork and with totally partial measures. It has already been mentioned here that Ourense is one of the provinces with more alarming unemployment rates. We have to do everything we can to keep this company from closing. The workers have already endured an ERTE in 2013, and there is, as I say, to do everything possible. We hope that a unanimous agreement will be reached today and that the company will begin to assume that it cannot do what it desires at all. Because it's particularly alarming when we talk about these companies, which are earning millions of benefits. We're not talking about a sector where there's economic problems. Companies get more millions of benefits every year, and workers get even more insecure every year. They drop wages or keep them frozen, many of the workers have poor wages. That's why today we have to put a solution, of course, to which the United States does not close. We must avoid relocation with all these measures. But we also put ourselves on the fundamental task to end the precariousness. They have to raise the wages of this sector, of this company and of the set of companies that exist in the country. We're talking about 10,000 workers in the country who are suffering a high psychological burden, a lot of rotation in their jobs, which often, as I say, have poor wages, as most of them have already mentioned, don't work full hours, many work twenty-five-thirty hours, charging -- as I say -- real misery, with which you can't reach the end of the month in any way. And you have to do that job, too. Of course, we're also glad that the Galician Union has a dialogue with workers and workers. But it was just missing, it's their responsibility, an obligation for all administrations to keep a dialogue, because for that they are, it's no favor or assignment they're going to make to the workers and the workers. It's an obligation and it's the least, because we're supposed to owe them and them. And, of course, as I said, we are going to vote in favour of the initiative and hope to reach an agreement. The truth is that I am not going to get into some of the considerations that the People's Party spokesperson has made, for example, on the subject of bilingualism, because it would give rise to another debate, but it has been quite well reflected in her opinion, or on the subject of institutional respect. The People's Party has been always on the side of companies, never, absolutely never, on the side of workers and workers, standing on the side of workers and workers discursively. They have some speeches of support and empathy, but then, at the time of truth, when they legislate, when they pass here, when they reject many of the initiatives that we bring — because we can do heeroteca, because we talked about this and we had a motion in the previous plenary, not five months ago, it was in the previous plenary, not in the previous plenary but in the other -- again they rejected many measures. I mean, it's not a novelty, with the telemarketing sector now, and I've said that I'm happy that they're going to do a study, because, after a lot of time, they've been repeatedly denied, and we're happy with all the strength that can be transferred to the workers and workers of the United States in Ourense, but of course, also all the pressure that can be made to the company with Naturgy, everything, will be necessary.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u104	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u105	That's why we expect an agreement to be reached, and I reiterate our support again. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u106	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quinteiro. On the part of the author group of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Presas Bergantinos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u107	Well, I wanted to start by thanking the will to seek a consensus from all the vocabularies without exclusion. To remember that, of course, there are fundamental problems, the framework is a fundamental problem, not only because labour reforms allow it to be cheaper to fire a hundred and thirty people and close a platform and open a new platform elsewhere, but also the framework itself, because really my colleagues, these workers, are employed by the electrician; what happens is that the framework favours half of the salary to do the work that, in normal conditions, if there was public control over the energy sector, should do this company directly, and, on the other hand, because these issues we have discussed at other times. I wanted to stop a little on some matter that we proposed. Mrs. Novoa, I appreciate the effort they have made, because I am aware that they have made an effort to maintain, as far as possible, from their point of view, the literality of our amendment, and we will accept your proposal. We simply propose to add the Socialist Party's point and our point 4, so that it will also vote and remain in the session log for the future, but we understand that the issues that put us on the table are reasonable and can be voted in favour; in addition, it is opposed to the company committee. I just wanted to do two killings. First, on the question of language, we literally read what we propose: "Asking the electric company to guarantee the right of the Greeks and the Greeks to be served in German by the service provider company and to contribute to the maintenance of employment in Galicia in the call centres sector." Rule of autonomy, eh!, the attention in Italian. I mean, we're not proposing that they put a bite on the workers and the workers or someone if they don't speak German, just that we take advantage of that right as an economic value, it's economic value too; otherwise, Reus wouldn't be pointing out that we can speak German; and that's what we have to value it and it's a demand in addition to our country's trade union. Just keep track of it. And then another question. You felt here that the councils are, indeed, doing their work; the Deputation does its work, receiving the workers and workers; and also the Board of Galicia. I think I'm short, frankly, to be welcomed by Mrs. Covadonga Toca and that the Industry advisor doesn't mind raising his phone. In any case, I'm simply warning the People's Party. Yes, I know, because I'm talking to my workmates, Mrs. Novoa, I know you haven't been called by the Industry Advisor; they may ask. In any case, I make a warning here at the People's Party's bench: the BNG will not allow this to be left alone in words, we will be constantly watching this issue, so that it will not just remain in words and be done. And to insist on two issues that seem key to me: first, that study is necessary; there is not so much a voice voter who voted against an initiative that my companion Montse Prado defended, voted against doing that study.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u108	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u109	In any case, it is important, because when I entered this Parliament we were 8,000 people in the sector and today it is six thousand five hundred or seven thousand in Galicia; therefore it is necessary. And lastly — and finally, Mr President — it is essential to also dialogue with Naturgy, because in the end the customer is always right, and if you, just as you hug the delegate of Iberdrola, negotiate with Naturgy, we will have a lot of chances that this will go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u110	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u111	Finally, Mr President, wishing all the workers and workers to remain active and active in the struggle, that we will not let them down from this German Parliament and that we will get the United States not to close in Ourense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u112	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. We moved on to the next non-law proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Da María Monserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the demand that the Government of Greece should make to the Central Government in relation to the penalty imposed at the Provincial Court of the Coruña to a neighbor of Lira - Carnota - for an incident with a theft of the region
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u113	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u114	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u115	Good day to all and all. First of all, I would like to greet the representatives of the family of Manuel Martínez, representatives of the neighbors and representatives of the friends. Today we are bringing here, to this Parliament, an initiative with which we want this Parliament to manifest itself in favour of seeking pardon from the Spanish Government for a neighbour of Lira, in the Town Hall of Carnota, for Manuel Antonio Martínez Lustres. Manuel Antonio, Manuel de Talelo, is a neighbour of Lira, in Carnota, 43 years old, sailor, who is dedicated to the realization. Manuel is sentenced to three years in prison for a crime of injury following an incident with a robbery at the mouth of the Costa da Morte. The facts for which he was convicted happened almost seven years ago, in the summer of 2013, in a context of great tension and uncontrollable poaching; a tension arising from the Board's decision to withdraw the financing of the surveillance service of the marine reserve of the Minas, in Lira, a pioneer initiative around the world and which had been launched in 2008. With this decision to eliminate surveillance in the area, this reservation was left unprotected, and with this decision, which included the disapproval and discomfort of seafaring people, since poaching was one of the worst enemies of this reserve, this deprotection forced professionals themselves to have to control and deal with theft. After this withdrawal of surveillance, theft began to operate without a barracks, for until then it was an area that had been controlled for this illegal activity. In particular, the group involved in this incident, for which Manuel was convicted, was characterized by his dangerous act, being well prepared, and amassing a number of conflicts and causes by the spousal of fishing and seafood resources and by episodes of violence resulting from this illegal act. In this context of the summer of 2013, perceivers of Lira saw how stealthy they were working in the morning, taking advantage of this lack of surveillance, in the Minerzos area. After this illegal raid on the reservation, they were confronted by the collective of professional fellows who legally do in the locality, with the intention of expelling them from the reservation. Among these perceptions was Manuel, who at that time was the president of the group of fellows and also the major pattern of the Lira Congress. That same night, the robbery group appeared at Manuel's place of residence, proceeding to make important threats and disturbances. Manuel called the Civil Guard, but when the Civil Guard arrived they were gone. When they failed to achieve their goal tonight, they returned to Lira days later and located Manuel in the cassette where the material was stored, where they threatened him, intimidated him, and tried to secure him. When he saw his integrity threatened, Manuel defended himself from this attempt of aggression, with an object that he had in his hand, a scratch to go to the realization. In this defense act, in that attempt to catch him in his own house, for he wounded one of the attackers, causing a major injury, from which the robber had to recover for several months. The judicial process opened after this complaint ended with a sentence of three years' imprisonment by the Provincial Court and was then ratified by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. This judgment is currently in execution process and Manuel's entry into the string may be imminent, you can notify it at any time. At this point, we bring here this request for pardon, because Manuel recognized the facts of assaulting the robbery, in a situation of seeking to defend himself from an attempt at aggression. He proceeded to repair the damage caused to the injured, having already paid the amount of EUR 7,200 for compensation. And in addition to this, Manuel has the support of the neighbourhood, of Carnota's sports, associative and economic fabric, with a laugh of solidarity support to prevent him from entering the prison. The neighborhood of Lira, Carnota, and the bar was organized to initiate mobilizations and all kinds of actions to try to prevent Manuel from entering the chain. This support was seen last Saturday, April 13 at a concentration where hundreds of neighbors and neighbors expressed this support on the explanation in front of the port of Portocubelo. The Municipal Corporation of the Council of Carnota also approved an initiative to request, unanimously from all groups represented in the plenary, the discretionary grant of pardon to the Council of Ministers. The request for pardon was also followed by most social, cultural and professional entities in the municipality, the Lira Football Club, the Monte Pindo Association, the Confederation of its own locality. She was assisted by the Provincial Federation of Coruña Brotherhood, which also addressed the political groups represented in this Parliament, asking that we also request this request for pardon from this House, and there are also a collection of hundreds of signatures supporting this request for pardon. Everyone agrees that the penalty is excessive, severe and disproportionate. They consider Manuel a man loved and loved by the people of the sea and loved and loved by the neighbors, the worker, the father of a younger child, and what his family's livelihood depends on. Of course at the BNG, like all these groups who demand pardon, we believe that they are still victims of cutting policies that leave unprotected a breeding space of fish and seafood of the most sensitive of the Galician coast, and that this has forced professionals themselves to take care of this surveillance and protection of the undispensive zone that they want to take advantage of this poor surveillance situation. We consider him to be a victim of an incident before which he cannot expect another reaction that was not self-defense and intimidation, and we consider Manuel's reasons for his conduct, as well as his personal and family circumstances, to be believed and supported and supported by that request for pardon. The facts were produced in a context in which we must take into account the serious damage thefts had to do to this in the reservation, to the resource, which was the livelihood of the people of Lira, and that this must be considered as an element to be taken into account and an exigment. Of course, what seems to be a cry is that his entry into prison only causes him a terrible personal and family prejudice, and that we of course consider that it does not bear any benefit or reward absolutely to anyone, whenever the person who suffered the injuries has already been compensated for their damage and who has even manifested in the media that, if they asked him for the signature for pardon, he would also sign it. Manuel has sent, through his defence, to the Ministry of Justice a request for pardon, and of course we believe that this Parliament must also do so, to the extent that pardon is a measure of grace, based on the hardness that sometimes entails the legal application of the penalty imposed, when they compete with humanitarian reasons, of rehabilitation or of sufficient fairness so that the State can renounce the exercise of punitive power, because it would be more prejudicial than beneficial. We sincerely believe that those circumstances which are set out to grant pardon compete in this case of Manuel, and that is why we ask the parliamentary groups with representation in this House to urge the German Government to request the Spanish Government's Council of Ministers to grant discretionary pardon to Manuel Antonio Martínez Lustres. Nothing else, waiting for the positive vote, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Salorio.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u117	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Go ahead with our support to Manuel Antonio Martínez Lustres, his family and of course his neighbors. This parliamentary group does not advocate anything for violence to solve this problem. We understand that there must be other avenues of legal punishment for such conflicts. We have of course on which side we are, on the side of the sector, always. Stealing is a scourge that must be eradicated and an economic, social, health and environmental problem. We call for awareness. If there's theft, it's because there's people buying thieves. The Provincial Federation of Coruña Brotherhood called for a joint initiative from all groups of support to the former President of the Lira sensitaries, urging the Galician Union to support the requirement to switch the sentence and request the Central Government to grant a pardon for Manuel or at least the last one to go to prison. Once the criminalization of furtive conduct has been established, as reflected in the reform of article 335 of the Criminal Code, urges the Central Government to apply the rule more rigorously, preventing serious cases of theft and hinder the possibility of situations like the one lived in Lira. The PSOE did not want to join, because it does not want the second part of the proposal; In Tide, because the PSOE did not join; and the BNG, because they were free. We can't understand why they didn't join this sector position. Now they can prove they want to help and not politicize. Our amendment is not to correct, but to improve and pick up the sector's position, just like I read it a moment ago. If they do not accept the amendment, we will also support the proposal, but we will present our own proposal and the proposal of the Coruña Brotherhood Federation, with regard to the sector. Of course, we consider sanctions disproportionate, as if an assault on a fishing guard would usually bring minor economic sanctions and prison sentences less than two years old, which would not lead to prison entry. The sentence was committed with a dangerous means, with aggravating and alleviation and mitigating damage repair. His defence has sent a letter to the Ministry of Justice requesting full or subsidiary partial pardon and that the execution of the sentence be suspended — as Mrs Prado has also mentioned — until the request is resolved. They also mentioned that Manuel had already stolen the EUR 7,200 for compensation, as well as that he had been asked to go to prison for irreparable damages and would not report any kind of benefit in the sense of reinstatement. Neighbors, collectives and confrereries from various municipalities concentrated on Carnota to ask for Manuel's pardon, expressed respect for judicial decisions, but the general public considers the judgment to be very harsh, disproportionate and disproportionate. They define Manuel as a man loved and loved by the people of the sea and by the neighbors, a man of work, honored and father of family, with minor children in charge. Representatives of the concentrated groups declared to the press: the thieves came to Lira twice to look for fuck, Manuel recognized the facts and already paid compensation. They're going to put an honest person in jail and he hasn't been looking for anyone. Your prison entry would not repair any damage and if it meant a serious situation of disappearance for your family and the outrage of the whole town. Manuel had to defend himself from the assault on his person and his family by the burglary. To conclude, justify the request by the Provincial Federation of Coruña Brotherhood to reform article 335 of the Criminal Code, with statements from a number of persons involved, so that the burglaries of incidents are condemned by the criminal procedure and not only by the administrative procedure. The powerlessness of the confrries to the thieves — of those who declared themselves — are the smugglers of shellfish. The problem is that sanctions are administrative, nobody sends them to jail, so they act again. Stealing has become a lifestyle, some carry more than a hundred complaints to their backs. The PP had to fight alone on request for prison sentences for the riots. PSOE and BNG rejected a PNL in 2004 to consider it a crime. The opposition also did not support the request to introduce this request into the Criminal Code in 2015. BNG and PSOE always argued that it was a problem of tradition and culture of the coastal peoples and of marginality and social inclusion. Last but not least, saying that it is not true that the Union is cut off in the fight against theft. The law governing the Coast Guard Service has been reformed, five patrols have been renewed and 42 new people have been added to the service, a 35% increase in the average of inspections and 42% of offences detected, 41% seizures, 201% on the annual average of charges; in addition, 456 have been detained by the Autonomic Police since the criminal character of the repeat robbery came into force. For now, nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Salorio. Before we give the floor to Mrs. Toja, we're going to greet the students of the Castro do Grove Rosalía Center. They're 5th grade students who are visiting Parliament today. Welcome to Parliament, and also to the people who accompany us today from the rostrum. A greeting to all of them. Mrs Toja of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has the floor now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u119	Thank you, President. Good morning. First of all, our support for Manuel and his family. These days on the Death Coast are rough days. Doces, because most of the Greeks and the Greeks we chose a colored Spain and not a dark-black grey Spain, as I wanted the right. But they're bitter days too, they're days of great bitterness on the Death Coast, because we're awaiting entry into prison by Manuel Martínez Lustres, Manuel de Telelo, as is known in Lira; an issue that, although expected, is a matter that falls like a cold water jug on the Death Coast. From our group we're going to support Manuel's pardon request, because we understand it has to be so, that it can't be otherwise. We also know the defence they face the people who work in the sea, especially the fellows, the maricadores, day after day, in the face of furtiveism, and we know the abandonment that the Galician Union has subjected them to. We supported, in addition to voting for this initiative, accompanying the neighborhood of Lira and the family in the demonstration that took place in Lira on 13 April; there were the socialists. We also support Manuel through the Government Delegation, from which we are now working from the very first moment we've had knowledge of this issue. And we support all possible legal means to grant the pardon application. In addition, it must be borne in mind that this is about how the procedure works; it is a long process, it is an administrative dossier with a long processing period, in which it is also necessary to give an audience to the injured person, to the injured person, with which it would be essential to shorten the deadlines of this long process to count on the favourable support of the injured person, the injured person, the pardon person. That's a fundamental question that could shorten the deadlines for granting Manuel's pardon. I therefore repeat that we have voted in favour of this initiative and will continue to work to ensure that this request for pardon succeeds. But it is important to remember how this initiative reached Parliament, because a few weeks ago — if you remember — it was proposed to make a joint initiative of the four groups, an initiative that we could be discussing today with the four groups together, but the initiative was not ahead because the PP insisted on including a point 2 to take advantage of and campaign for general elections. Instead of thinking what was important at that time, which was the joint pardon request of the four parliamentary groups, he put over his party interests, as always does the PP, and left aside what really mattered, which was Manuel's pardon. That is why we are debating this initiative today, but each of the groups we are here is presenting our initiative. [[Applause]] And look, in addition, in the middle, they kept lying, they didn't get it; in addition, they continued to lie, because the sea councillor, in Castelo, in Cervo, went to the sector saying that the initiative would not go forward, that the pardon would not be achieved because the Galician PSOE would abstain. How were we going to abstain on something that had not been discussed yet? How could they lie like that on such a serious issue? Perhaps that's why, by their lies, the "safe value" they announced ended up in a "failure value." That's the problem. [[Applause]] And the problem is, we can't stay behind, the problem that brings us here is furtiveism, the helpless people who work at sea in a hostile environment, the work in the face of the indifference of the Union. Because we can't lose sight of the fact that the origin of this problem, which brings us here today, is theft, and the question of theft is a clear and relevant issue for the Greek socialists. That is why we are constantly approaching the Committee on Fisheries initiatives on this issue, a clear and clear defence of the legality, quality production and work, the defence of the work of seafarers. But every time we put forward an initiative, every time the Socialist Group has presented an initiative on furtiveism, we find ourselves with a PP that votes against, for two reasons: either it is already being done or the problem does not exist. And there's the problem, there are the consequences of the problems, the consequences of a union that has abandoned the sector and that does not put the measures necessary to end the theft. If not, tell me — that they have a recent problem there — what will they do with these confrereries that have been withdrawn from the European funds? What are they going to do with the backs that are not going to be watched now because they don't have the European help to deal with technical aid and also with the help against theft? What are you going to do? I've been asking that question for months and they haven't been able to give an answer yet. Don't forget: The problem is not anything but theft. So — and to make it clear — the Socialist Party supports this initiative within and outside Parliament, with the family and through the Government Delegation, making the necessary managements for this pardon to go ahead. And I ask the PP to forget his amendment, that he forgets point 2, that he thinks of Manuel, that he thinks of Manuel's family, that he thinks of the Costa da Morte, for once he thinks of the Costa da Morte. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u121	Good morning. First, welcome my neighbors from Lira, those people who make me happy every time I'm around. The truth is that I'm very personal about this matter; I don't personally know Manuel, but if I know some part of his family, I know many of his friends, his colleagues, and all of them, they make clear Manuel's personality: he's a good person, he's a worker, honest person, who has never been immersed in any situation like this; he's seen himself in a totally undesirable situation, in a very unpleasant incident, that he has acknowledged and regrets and that he's already paid compensation. Today we have an obligation to help justice be done. I believe that it is these times when the work in this Parliament is truly dignified. Because we know that justice is not the same for all. If Manuel had the necessary information and a good criminal defense, he wouldn't be in this situation. Several criminalists consulted by this group showed their perplexity after reading the summary. They all claim that, with good defence, the sum would pay a fine, given the evidence that he acted in self-defense and that he never had a record of violent conduct. That is why it is essential — it seems — that it will happen and I am glad — that we all vote in favour of institutionally claiming your pardon. And here I want to make a special call to the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, so that they really develop again not only a social Friday but also of justice and that they can get Manuel not to have to go to jail for a single day. That is why we have asked them to do all the necessary management to speed up the whole process, given that all the circumstances are given. The truth is, I'm not going to come in and comment or qualify the attempt to political manipulation of the People's Group with such a sensitive matter. The neighbours of the Coast of Death don't deserve that indignity. To pretend to put Pedro Sánchez on this initiative is totally absurd. What was that supposed to mean? Are we going to make political use of anything, even with such a sensitive thing? That's why I'm going to stay alone with one thing, and I'm going to congratulate myself for the popular group's support for this initiative, which will allow it to support itself and leave here unanimously. We hope that this unanimity of the most important institution in Galicia will be sufficient for Manuel not to have to step down the prison, and that is why I reintroduce and insist on the Socialist Party's lords, who have the methods and processes to be able to solve this, of course, within the legality, but, as it seems, as the spokesperson for the BNG has already stated, that the injured person would be willing to accept and give his good view to the pardon, there would seem to be no problem in the short term so that this matter can be resolved. Obviously, we could move on to political matters if we really did enough to avoid robbery, but I think we would bring little, because the people of Lira know better than anyone, we don't have to give them any information about it, there's no need to provide them with new data. That is why I would concentrate on the fact that there really is a powerful demonstration in this Parliament that Manuel cannot enter prison, because he is totally a victim of an incompetent defence, which I already say, if he had the methods and the information and, as always happens, the economic means, would not be in this situation. We have the opportunity to resolve an injustice, and I think that would make this Parliament worthy. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u122	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u123	Well, first of all, I would like to thank you — I dare you to do so on behalf of Manuel, his family, his neighbors and his friends — that this Parliament is going to vote unanimously today on a request for forgiveness from the Spanish Government, and that is good news. It's good news that the German Parliament, where the people's sovereignty resides, does not stand out in the face of a situation of distress in which Manuel, the family, and I dare say that the sector. The truth is that I regret the intervention that has been made here trying to dissuade this initiative, Mrs Salorio. Look, the BNG filed this pardon request when he arrived via his family on April 10, when there was absolutely no request on the part of either the Federation of Conferres or anyone else. We presented it and registered it. When the Federation of Conferres' request for a joint initiative came, the BNG said that it had absolutely no problem, no problem, with which this use, indeed, says very little in favour of those who intend to instrumentalize and undervalue the position of the other political groups, which of course is out of place, totally out of place [[Applause]] Of course, BNG's concern is that Manuel doesn't enter a single day in jail. That's why we're not going in here where the action against furtiveism should be and who has to perform the performances, because we've already debated it and we've also got quite clear what our position is. What I mean is that, after this unanimous approval, it plays, and it plays speed, because I insist that Manuel can't go into jail for a single day. It applies to the Union, which must immediately transfer this request to the Spanish Government and have a proactive position. It's not enough to send a paper by email or send a letter, you have to have a proactive position, because there's a unanimous position in this Parliament, and an active position has to be off the phone or going to meet with the officials of the Council of Ministers. And it takes proactive position on the Spanish Government, in the hands of the Socialist Party. It takes speed, because the procedures, painful and slow, and the difficulties, when desired, will come. If the People's Party and the Socialist Party agreed and one day they were able to modify Article 135 of the Constitution so that the banks could charge before anyone, they could well speed up all proceedings so that an honest worker and that the only crime he committed was to defend his means of life did not enter prison and that pardon was granted as soon as possible. I think it's about priorities, and governments, even if it's only occasionally, should have as a priority to defend the workers, not only the banks and the top ones, that there are no slow procedures there, but there's all the speed they have. So, we've also asked from BNG for approval...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u124	Do you approve the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u125	...unanimous, of which we are pleased, in this Parliament, but, after that, please to whom it belongs, to the Greek Government, to the Spanish Government, to do their duties quickly and immediately, because Manuel cannot enter the prison for a single day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u126	Do you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u127	I'm sorry. With regard to the amendment, we're going to make a transaction if we accept the People's Party, adding to the first point...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u128	Read it later, if you want, anyway, if you're going to trade...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u129	Excuse me, one second.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u130	Don't worry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u131	It would be to ask the pardon and add "or at least to be eliminated from prison as soon as the pardon request is not resolved." And we're not going to accept the second point, in order for this petition to come out unanimously today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[Mrs. Salorio Porral asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Salorio, what do you want the word for? Give a voice to Mrs. Salorio's chair, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u133	To correct an inaccurateness. Mrs. Toja said that the second point of our amendment was the People's Party initiative, and it's not. That's exactly what the Provincial Federation of Coruña Brotherhood requested when it came to asking for the joint initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u134	Thank you. It's an incorrect correction. [[Mrs. Toja Suárez asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Toja? Give your voice to the scene.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u135	Thank you, President. What we're saying is that you didn't want to give up on point 2, putting your interests above the interest that prevailed here, which was that of Mr. Manuel's pardon. That's what we said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u136	No, no, that's it. That's something else. That's part of the debate. Mrs. Salorio's inaccurateness, which was a proposal that moved them to all groups, was killed; the other was in the debate. We continue. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera and 14 other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the processing of a change in the General Cost Regulation relating to the deadlines for granting the occupation of the public maritime-terrestrial domain
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u137	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u138	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor of Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u139	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Seeing the tone of the debate, a few rapists who have now launched Mrs Prado to the future Government of the Socialist Party, we assume absolutely the election result, but, as far as we can be listening, Mrs Toja is still a bit on electoral campaign. We assume that result and, in addition, this initiative I think is very close today, because we believe that the agreement coming out of this House directly affects Galicia and we want Mr Sánchez not to fail the Greeks and that he can remedy this amendment of the Rules of Procedure or at least the procedure he is carrying out with the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, which is not done with all the transparency that is required of him and if he is required of a Central Government. Moreover, in today's amendment of the Socialist Party, we can see that they recognize that the whole law must be complied with. If it was a decree or an initiative with perhaps some electoralist intent, it's true that it worked, it worked, and now what we need is that Mr. Sánchez and the Socialist Government don't miss the Greeks and the Greeks. What we need to know — I insist — about the amendment of the Rules of Procedure is, firstly, whether the Government knows that this amendment affects several companies and not only is it to talk about an extension or the granting of the Ence factory. We also need to know that the amendment of the regulation must be consistent with the 2013 Back Law, never go against it. So we've seen so far, it's not adjusted, and therefore we ask that this change that is being processed be withdrawn, and we also need to know what it is done and that they're going to comply with it by following the appropriate procedures, giving the affected, the stakeholders, making their demonstrations, making their claims within the deadlines set by law. We believe that this was done — and when we presented this initiative, in addition to a certain alarm — by the back door and that it was a maneuver — I insist — at a time of an electoral period. I think it was ten months of the Socialist Party's government preparing a campaign for the generals that went well, but it was ten months of preparing a campaign with decrees that in many cases affected very negatively and harmed Galicia, and we hope that from now on we can see other horizons and things are done as the Greeks deserve. It's a very serious situation, it's a very serious situation, because -- I insist -- this urgent change in the back rules affects a lot of companies and it can eventually harm workers and many jobs. The Government of the State has tried or tried to legalize decisions which, as I said before, speak of the open procedures, such as the extension of the grant of Ence, but I insist that this has to have a legal basis, and also affects another type of company, another type of facility that is in the maritime-terrestrial territory and which, therefore, is not only related to that factory. That extension of Ence must be remembered that it was granted in 2016, which had the legal protection of article 2 of the Law of Back and all necessary reports and environmental assets, in case there was any doubt. We also ask the Government of Sánchez to listen to the workers of Ence, who were also in Ferraz trying to talk to the Socialist Party and ask them to consider the importance of this factory in Galicia. What he did and will do to this government, because we think he's going to follow the same line, it's an interesting interpretation of the rules of the back, that at all speed he was trying to cover that decision completely unjustified. The Government quickly began the processing of a change without counting on the autonomous communities, contravening a rule of law, just to justify a position — I insist — on the spread of Ence. In fact, in addition, that was done on March 19 of this same year, that is, just five days after the decision was made public on the concession of the pastry. So this has a lot to do with that factory, but I think they didn't calibrate the consequences it could have in Galicia. It has generated complete legal insecurity, as those affected are at the expense of arbitrary changes in legislation that may endanger their activity. The amendment of the Regulation was made on the basis of a report by the Advocate General of the State, but without a normative basis, because it is expressly intended to approve that amendment of the Rules of Procedure, in which no extraordinary extension may exceed seventy-five years, including the granting time, i.e. no extraordinary extension may benefit from installations which may be located outside the public domain of the sea-terrestrial. If we exclude this or if we stop thinking about Cence, you have to think about everything that can affect you. That is to say, in this case a study has been done — of course I will say so — because I have data — very clearly by the Galician Board, by the Territory's Institute of Studies, in which it identifies that there are about five thousand buildings in Galicia — in particular, 4,934 buildings — that are entirely or partly in the public domain area of the sea-terrestrial, among which companies, debuggers, infant schools and even some health centre are found. [[Murmurs.]] So this is the number of companies that are, but the impact would be very important on the economic fabric, as I said earlier. It could eventually affect jobs that affect more than a hundred companies linked to the sea industry chain. So I think this has to have some responsibility, and we know that you will agree to make this change without exactly fulfilling the procedures and being subject to the law because it is not receipt by any government, and it also directly affects Galicia. We understand that this amendment is contrary to Law 2/2013, which does not correctly interpret the Ditome of the Council of State, which does not correctly interpret the Judgment of the Constitutional Court on Law 2/2013, and which implies an arbitrary change and contrary to legal certainty in the legal criterion which has so far been maintained by the Central Executive. So we believe that -- if you allow me the expression -- they've made a mess. They made a fool of you to have an election speech with regard to Ence, but -- I insist -- you did everything that might affect this amendment of the Back Law in Galicia, because you will know that we have 2,500 kilometers back and so it's important. Well, Sánchez has always been behind Galicia, hopefully today he has another heel — I insist — with the support of the Greeks for the Socialist Party. Don't miss the Greeks, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party. So what would happen if this procedure was done as planned? The maximum period — as I said — of the duration of concessions would remain for a maximum of seventy-five years, including the extensions, so — as the Galician Union has said — that period should not include the concession, but only the extensions, because otherwise it would put at risk all the plans or the viability of the companies that designed their projects in the future in those deadlines. The requirements for granting should be reviewed again when the extension has to be decided, and this would complicate the future of numerous facilities in documentation, time and expenditure necessary to renew or extend these concessions. Therefore, the obligation to derive out of the maritime-terrestrial public domain area activities that may take place elsewhere is established. I insist that it is already done by the Instituto de Estudios do Territorial and that this would affect about five thousand installations in Galicia, many of them, in addition, linked to the sea-industry chain and, therefore, jobs of Welsh and Welsh. The work of the Joint Government has been totally transparent, you know it. A director general came here to answer a question. Together she tried to get in touch with the Secretary of State, tried to get in touch with the minister of the Ecological Transition, but they did nothing; or not in response, absolute silence. We hope that with this GNP you will be able to get out of here a unanimous decision from the Galician Parliament so as not to prejudice Galicia directly with this amendment you intend to make. Ladies and gentlemen of Galicia, particularly the Socialist Party, we are faced with an arbitrary change that creates legal insecurity. It is against the 2013 Back Law, which is currently in force. A decision that is only explained by the electoral period, but that today can be amended and we can come to an agreement to make things right. We are faced with a clear example of institutional disloyalty and a completely arbitrary policy. We therefore believe that we cannot rule under that electoral criterion. If you've seen four years and you've reached agreements with other parties, then you'll have to forget the coup d'decret and try to solve this, because it's been ten months preparing some elections, but from now on there's another direction, another government, and we can come to an agreement so that these things can be done well and do not affect so much the jobs of the Greeks and the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u141	Thank you, President. Mrs. Egerique, a joke has happened to the valet in recent months. It's a joke that shames all the Welsh and all the Greeks, and that you support. That's a joke, and that's not what we're going to discuss today! Interestingly, it's a non-responsive bill that was registered on April 10, this year. Home!, the letter from the sea and the environment advisors is sent to the Ministry the following day. You are more concerned about this matter as a parliamentary group than the Government of Galicia itself, because the letter referring to the ministry follows its non-law proposal. There was not so much urgency on the part of the Government. And by the way, it's answered on April 26, here's the answer. I don't know if you haven't talked to either of the two advisors -- maybe, we don't know -- because you're very disappointed after what happened on Sunday, and you're so, so, so out of the place that you probably didn't have time to talk to either of the two advisors, who, by the way, were here this very morning and could have been told that if you were questioned by the Environment Secretary on the 26th of this month. Today is 30th, Mrs. Egerique. This initiative was just to generate noise and scare the sector in an electoral period. For that was the urgency of this initiative, and for nothing else. [[Applause]] We can only understand it in this context. Suppose — for all of us to understand — to go against a draft reform of a regulation, the General Costs Regulation of the year 2014. In fact, in our amendment we ask that the principle of regulatory hierarchy be respected, as a result of law and legality. It's not that it doesn't conform to legality, it's that all regulations, also those of the Government of Galicia, have to correspond to the laws that protected them. That's the first. Secondly, be transparent. And thirdly, let us continue to open up a process of participation. That's what we say in our amendment. Mrs. Egerique, it's curious that you come to us to talk about transparency when — and I'm going to talk about an example of my commission and an example of this same morning at the Speaker's Board — the 2010-2015 Judicial Infrastructure Plan, which is still not running at 30%, has never been officially published and therefore could never be made official allegations on the part of anyone. That's total transparency on the part of your government. And even today, you, with this desire for participation from all over the world, including parliamentary groups, have brought to the Council of Spokesman a bill of credit supplementation, in the single reading procedure, without the possibility that any kind of amendments may be made by the parliamentary groups. Long live participation! [[Applause]] Of course, to come here to teach lessons, you have to look inside, which is going to be what's going to touch you at the Congress of Deputies and the Senate from now on for these four years. You ask for a comprehensive report on all concessions. What if you just told us that there are five thousand facilities affected because there is a report -- a study you said -- from the Territory's Institute of Studies? Why do you need a report if you already have a study? And apart from that, it's a lie. It's a lie. The data you give is a lie. First, it doesn't affect aquaculture, it's not true; neither the ports, nor the aquaculture, nor the salts, nor the navigation, nor any of those activities. I'll explain why. First, because there is a law, which is the Galician Fisheries Act, of the year 2008, which establishes for aquaculture facilities a ten-year period of concessions, which can be extended for another 50 years, which prevails over what the Back Law says, and which, in addition, in the case of completion of the concession, can be applied for a new concession, because necessarily these activities have to be carried out on the coast, not like Ence, for example; they cannot necessarily be moved from location. Besides, besides... President, I'd like someone to stop talking so much, because I don't even listen to myself. [[Murmurs.]] I don't know if you want to go out here and talk to her about me, because I take the whole initiative with a rum, rum, rum behind you which really bothers a lot. Well, I'll shut up, if necessary, and that's it. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u142	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u143	Of course! I don't know if they're particularly nervous or nervous. Ourense was very bad. Maybe that's why, too, I don't know. It's just...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u144	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u145	Well, there's still more to say! Regarding the canons of aquaculture facilities, they don't affect either. For the calculation of the canon for marine crops this amendment does not affect either, because in no case does Article 181.4 of the General Back Regulation, Mrs Egerique. You have to see what it affects. The reform affects, in particular, 300 and four exclusively licensed facilities, which can be extended under the 2013 Back Law, which, by the way, was a back law approved by Mr. Mariano Rajoy Brey when he was president of the Government. It only affects three hundred ninety-four. One hundred and thirty-five no longer asked for an extension, so those no longer affect them because they didn't want it; and of the others, there are one hundred seventy-four who still have time to ask for it, so at the moment they can't be worried about anything. There are eighty-five people who have applied for an extension, and within these eighty-five...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u146	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u147	...I'm going to finish -- there's twenty-nine who have problems, and they're the ones you're seeing, not those five thousand you just told us. Actually, it's very sad that you're using, like the valedora, the Institute of Territorial Studies to do the job. It's very sad. This draft regulation must conform to the Law of the Back. That's exactly why you're changing, because Romay Beccaria, president of the State Council, said in September 2014. The regulation is October, not September. And we also ask for more participation, and that a new deadline should be opened as a result of the allegations. We hope the new government can continue to do its work. Thank you very much. Don't lie and don't make noise by lying.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Time's up. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará. [[Murmurs.]] Mr Bará, whenever you like, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u149	Thank you, President. Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Good morning. Thank you, President. The People's Party clearly sees the lead, because this initiative has an apparent intention, which is the Rule of the Back Law, but it has another real, really, that is, Ence, to defend the interests of Ence, which is what you've been doing all this time. Of course, it seems obvious, for reasons of legal certainty, to make a reform of the Rules of Procedure, because this is what the State Counsel says, because this is also said by the State Council's report, the Constitutional Court's judgment, Supreme Court's judgments: that there are inconsistencies and inconsistencies between regulation and legislation, the Law of Costs and also the Law of State Heritage. So, that's indisputable, we understand from BNG. Another thing is that we also argue that it must be done with all guarantees, with deadlines, with transparency, with maximum participation, and we do not agree with the urgency procedure followed by the Central Government. But, said this, what we have to say is that the People's Party has been campaigning lies and manipulation for weeks in this regard, including meetings of two councillors with Fegamp. Well, with Fegamp, not because they met with the Vice President of the Fegamp People's Party. It must have been that they couldn't even have a meeting with the Fegamp directive and had to meet with the mayor of Cervo, the People's Party, apparently it was a meeting with Fegamp. And that's where all this alarmism has been sown, all the confusion of those five thousand buildings, which is a lie and a gross manipulation. We need to be serious and strict. It's not all worth defending the interests of Ence, Mrs. Egerique. You're talking about schools and health centers. Look, schools and health centers, if you need to change your site, change your location, what's the problem with that? Do they necessarily have to be on public domain land? Where was that said? They can't be because they can have another location. They won't close. Or, if not, you have to defuse those lands of the public domain, which has been done many times. You're talking about affectation -- the advisors told you -- of three thousand and five hundred aquaculture farms and farm parks. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The danger to aquaculture and to farming parks is not the Regulation of the Law on Back, but it is an aquaculture law which has kept the People's Party in a drawer and which has not yet withdrawn, which is a threat to traditional Greek aquaculture and which has been withdrawn by massive mobilization. What constitutes a danger and a threat to bats and farm parks is the contamination of rivers and the threat of mining operations, such as the Arousa River or the Noia River. What constitutes a threat is Ence's permanence in the stream of Pontevedra; that's a threat to aquaculture, fishing and seafood. What constitutes a threat is that the People's Party acts in the service of the great economic interests of the Ibex companies and the rotational doors and that they want to illegally occupy 3,000 metres of public-dominated land earned at sea. That's a threat to the river, it's a threat to health, and it's, above all, a threat to democracy, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. And speaking of democracy, you turned last Sunday's elections into a kind of plebiscite about the continuity of the CCE in the stream. They set up a campaign of plots, lies and coercion. A campaign, by the way, funded by Ence and executed by the union arm that you and the company have, with attacks on political parties' headquarters and democratic candidatures; attacks, threats and coercion on democratic candidatures and threats to a candidate and a companion, a concelerator at the BNG of the Pontevedra Town Council such as Carme da Silva. And even with attempted sabotage of international sports competitions in Pontevedra. And what we're telling them clearly, to make it clear, is that they won't intimidate us with these threats and these coercion, they won't frighten us and we'll continue to defend public interest. We demand a public condemnation here in Parliament of these mafia practices, which cannot be called otherwise. Yeah, they're mafia practices putting dinas in front of the door to a BNG concierge. That's mafia practices, and we won't agree. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And the People's Party, headed by Mr. Rueda, threw the rest last Friday 26th, going to the demonstration that took place in Pontevedra, and they took a monumental battalion in Pontevedra district, which told him massively no, that he does not want the People's Party. And this is just an advance of what will happen next May 26. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u150	Thank you, Mr Bará. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u151	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. With this initiative - as Mr Bará has said - you do not fool anyone. You come here trying to generate alarmism, but what this initiative hides, like so many actions and so many initiatives made by the People's Party, is the defense of the profits of the owners of Ence. No one is surprised, it is another initiative of the use of the People's Party of Institutions to encourage their friendly companies and to encourage economic elites. It's another performance by the People's Party to use the institutions to defend the interests of the owners of Ence and his colleagues of the People's Party on the board of directors of Ence. The real authors couldn't sign the initiative because they're no longer Members. You could clarify whether this initiative has been drafted by Mrs. Isabel Tocino, former Environment Minister of the People's Party, fundamental in the privatisation process of Ence, who is now on the board of administration of Ence by charging EUR 100,000 a year, or whether that initiative has been drafted by Mr. Carlos del Alamo, former director general of Montes, former Environmental Adviser in the Parliament of Galicia of the People's Party; a tremendously important and necessary role in the immense benefits of Ence which is now also part of the board of administration of the company, charging EUR 50,000 a year through this plot of rotation of the People's Party with Enc. It's good to remember, when we talk about the privatization of Ence, it's done with a specific date of completion and it's done with a price, which is to end in 2018. The company's owners knew it, the Administration knew it, until Mr. Rajoy decided to make an irregular extension, with a government in function, which converted that privatization into one of Galicia's largest corruption balls, giving for sixty years more to a company, without any competitive process, the permanence in maritime-terrestrial space. The zero cost and no consideration for the company to guarantee jobs, which shows that the People's Party gives absolutely equal jobs. They grant more than sixty years of extension without any obligation or commitment by the company to maintain jobs, obtaining immense benefits, which allowed, once this extension was made, Ence could fire workers while raising his salary to the board of directors. The People's Party didn't say anything, but in that board of directors there are two people, two People's Party discharges, two very relevant people in the People's Party, who voted to fire workers while they were raising their salary. This was done by the People's Party, demonstrating that it has no interest in defending workers and that the only thing that interests it is its own benefit and that of friendly companies. There's a legal process going on right now. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you dress up the costume of constitutionalists, the one who removes and acts according to the interests that are defended, and let justice do its work, that justice determines whether the extension is irregular or whether the extension is not. They do not interfere, and allow justice to act. You and Ence are too used to believing above the law and lying. We recently saw how the Environment Advisor said Ence doesn't pollute. It's an obscenity of such a level that the Environmental Adviser goes to the media saying that Ence doesn't pollute, it's such obscenity, that the deslexy absolutely to be able to carry on with its function. We can talk about the pollution parameters, the different substances they contaminate. We can discuss whether they're within legality or not, but saying that Ence doesn't pollute is such an obscenity that the environmental adviser should leave his office immediately. Just like you're constantly lying about employment data, using the data that the company provides. And, of course, we are facing a legal security problem!, the problem that you caused with the amendment of the 2013 Back Law and the 2016 irregular extension. That legal problem was generated by the People's Party, and that's what puts jobs at risk. You have failed to fulfill your promise to work on the transfer of the Year 2009 and 2012. It's been ten years since 2009, when they said they were going to work on the transfer from Ence, and in ten years they didn't present a single proposal on the table. Stop saying the transfer is impossible, put a proposal on the table, put themselves to work on a proposal, because depending on the terms, it will be possible or not possible. You're still cheating and lying. Look, what you need is Pontevedra's laugh is an ecological transition without leaving anyone behind. The river of Pontevedra must be fully restored. Obviously, not only is Ence the problem, but it is one of the fundamental problems, and we need that ecological transition without leaving anyone behind because it is possible to fully recover the stream of Pontevedra, to preserve the environment, to defend health and to preserve jobs, and what is needed is political will. For me, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Cal. For the author group of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Egerique Mosquera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u153	Thank you, President. Mr. Cal, you've spoken all about your intervention in Ence, I've told you that this affects a much larger infrastructure than Ence. Look, did you talk to the drummers? Do you know that by this decree you could take away the award of new beatings and stay in hands we don't know who from? He didn't talk to them, he's not talking and he's not on the subject. Look, this procedure that the Government of Sánchez wanted to carry out... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u154	Quiet, please. Quiet, quiet. I'm telling you to shut up. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you very much. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u155	...at the back door—and now I'm going to reply to Mrs Vilán.......we don't generate alarm, the alarm gives rise to the government of Sanchez when he put this change in motion. He made it through the emergency procedure, giving only seven working days to file claims, reducing the deadline for public information to ten natural days. Today, in its amendment, they ask that the law and the 1978 Constitution be scrupulously complied with. All right, I think it's very nice that you also want to fix a central government mistake. We're going to accept your amendment, if it can be addition and addition, and not substitution, because we believe the report we ask for is important to be made. Now you also set up the Fisheries Act, a regulation, you want to mess up. This is very clear, Mrs. Vilán. This has to be done within legal proceedings, which is what it would not be done. So you certainly say here that the alarm generates it by the People's Party by presenting the PNL, and we present the PNL precisely because it generated an alarm by establishing that decree. So there was a social alarm and we presented this non-law proposal to defend the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks and all the workers, Mr Bará, because for you there are workers of first and second, and for us the workers of Ence are first workers like all the workers of Galicia. I also have to make an incision here, Mrs. Vilan. The Territorial Institute of Studies has all our respect, I don't know why you have to question that high school to do the study, when it's the strictest thing to do it and what gives the most objective data, which are the ones I exposed here in my first intervention. Mr. Bará, I say you talk about election results, but look, I don't know, I don't want to put my finger on the lake, but in Pontevedra you're not going to throw rockets either. What I wonder is if you leave Pontevedra. Because you also talk about Ence and have been talking about that factory for years, scorning the workers of Ence and not other companies in Galicia, and maybe not leaving that territory. As I said here, the coast is two thousand and five hundred kilometers in Galicia, and this decree, this decision, not only affects Ence, but also affects, as I say, cetareans, sea-industry companies, health centres — yes — and schools. No, we shut up and change places, as if we could take a crane and change it in a moment. Mr Bará, this is more serious than you've exposed here and the tone you've used. Therefore, we believe, in addition, that it is necessary and it is important for counselors to meet with Fegamp. You also question it, why do you meet with Fegamp? Well, to transfer this information to all the municipalities, because the municipalities on the coast of Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u156	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u157	...are the most affected by this decree. With regard to the amendment, Mrs Vilán, we will agree to add it to the initial text that we have, so that we can go out — as I say — with unanimous or majority support to present to the Government of Spain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u158	Thank you very much. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and 13 other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament in respect of the request of the Greek Government to the Central Government for an immediate response to the proposal for the deployment of Navantia Ferrol 4.0 linked to the five frigate construction programme F-110
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u159	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u160	Mr. Tellado Filgueira has the floor to formulate the proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u161	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Beyond the electoral calendar we are living in, from this parliamentary group we have been especially critical of the Government of Pedro Sánchez since the conviction that this executive is not beneficial either to the economy, to employment or to the industrial activity of our community. Here are the open conflicts with the electro-intensive industries, the thermal power plants, the automotive industry and also the naval sector. And, therefore, as an industry spokesman and as a ferrolan, I can say that we are following with particular concern the evolution of the news about the naval and the project of the F-110 frigates that developed and pushed the Government of Mariano Rajoy. Since the motion of censure, the socialists had ten months, ten months!, stopped the project, when all they had to do was approve, sign the execution order and use existing resources in the state's general budgets by 2018. Specifically, a 252 million euro share that was already recorded in those general State budgets, approved by the People's Party and rejected by the Socialist Party. The F-110 frigate project assumes workload for Ferrol River shipyards for 7,000 people over the next ten years. Ten months we had to wait until the execution command could be signed. It could have been signed in July 2018, but the Socialist Government preferred to leave it in a drawer to sign it ten months later, in April 2019, in full electoral precamp. The Defence Minister took advantage of two visits to Galicia on grounds of party acts, of the Socialist Party, to draw up a draft which is not even theirs and which they systematically launched against every occasion, rejecting budgets. The first was in January, in an act in Pontevedra, when he undertook to run the project at once. The second was already in the third final campaign, the signature of the execution order itself to a few days of the elections. The most clear electoral use of a project, and for that, they didn't give them clothing paralyzing ten months that order of execution and having workers at home, hand on hand, without being able to work. We believe that the Central Government must stop looking at the naval as a source of blows of effect, as a source of electoral propaganda, to actually work in the present and future of Navantia in Ferrol. Actually, the execution command is already signed from recent dates, but right now there is no guarantee that there is a workload in the next year. On the shipyards of Navantia Ferrol, as long as he doesn't start cutting plates for the frigates. Now what's gonna happen is engineering work, but I don't work at the workshops. So there are workers in the auxiliary industry who are at home, unable to work, because this order of execution arrives ten months late. There are no guarantees that there is enough workload to use all these workers. In fact, the only decision that the Socialist Government has made is precisely in the opposite direction, in order to remove the burden of work from the shipyards of the Ferrol River, to remove the burden of work from Navantia Fene to take her to the Cadiz, one of the platforms of an wind farm. That was the only decision the Socialist Government made. That is why we believe that it is necessary for the Government to begin as soon as possible to develop the necessary infrastructures and the productive processes that lead Navantia to gain positions in the constitution of the factory of the future. The project of the F-110 frigates brought together the transformation of the yard, the modernization of the railway yard facilities, investing 400 million euros to transform a constructed and constructed yard in the 18th century and adapting it to the needs and requirements of the shipyards of the 21st century. Of this process of Estaleiro 4.0 nothing is known and nothing speaks the Government of Pedro Sánchez. This is about this initiative, of incorporating into the F-110 frigate project the investments needed to implement the 4.0 Station, these 400 million euros that will allow you to modernize and bring to the 21st century a yard that has already been pointered in the eighteenth century. The implementation of this project is one of the keys to the future of the naval for the next decades: to strengthen the competitiveness of the shipyard, one of the world's best shipyards; to empower new lines of action and diversification of industrial activity that develop on the Navantia-Fene-Ferrol shipyards; and to improve the efficiency of activity and consolidate the international leadership of the Navantia shipyards in the Ferrol River. The development of technical processes, more robotics, digital control systems, improvement in production processes, are fundamental for rail yards in the Ferrol River to reach more contracts in the coming years. From the People's Parliamentary Group we know and are fully aware that the Union has no doubt about the importance of this project, and thus demonstrates it with its policy of full support to the shipbuilding sector in close collaboration with the various shipyards, with the auxiliary industry, with other institutions and, of course, with the naval workers. We believe that in this issue, the joint research units launched since 2014 with the collaboration of Navantia, with the collaboration of the University of Coruña and with the AIMEN technology centre play a key role. Their involvement in this Starship 4.0 definition project is fundamental, with an investment of 7 million euros, and it has already produced great advances, such as, for example, advances in design, configuration, of what is called a smart ship. This activity can already be applied to the F-110 frigates, therefore, we believe it is essential that the Government, at the same time as it is approved — late but approved — the order of execution of the F-110 frigates, immediately commits the 400 million euros which are necessary to develop the modernisation of the Navantia shipyards' facilities in the Ferrol River. Today the Welsh naval, after years of crossing the desert, mainly caused by the disloyalization of the socialist government sector, lives a good time of health; a moment of health that becomes manifest with the burden of work and the committed contracts that are above the table. But this good moment must be taken to advance, and as soon as we've reached the contract, to the signature of the order of execution of the F-110 frigates, we believe it is essential that this project does not overturn the investment necessary to modernize the yard that was engaged and that it was planned along with the execution order. That has not yet been said, and we believe it is essential that this Parliament deliver a clear message to the Congress of Deputies, a clear message to the Government of Spain, because the order of execution of the frigates is very good, even if it is late, but it is necessary that this order of execution be paired up, be accompanied, of that investment of 400 million euros that allow the yard of the Ferrol River to be modernized. So today we bring this initiative to the plenary of the Galician Parliament, as a whole of this Parliament, the opportunity for us to support a demand from the territory of Ferrolterra, that we support a claim from the society of Ferrolterra and also from a strategic sector for our economy, so we bring this non-legislative proposal that urges the Council of Galicia in its request to the Government of Spain to respond immediately to the consensus proposal for the deployment of the Starry 4.0 in Ferrol, linked to the construction programme of the five frigates F-110, which will entail the generation of a relevant number of jobs and will place the Fene-Ferrol Navanta in the technological vanguard of the naval sector. Today we are taking an initiative to support the region of Ferrolterra, to support workers in the shipbuilding sector and to support an industry that has allowed the development of a region like Ferrolterra. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. You have the floor, on behalf of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u163	Thank you, Mr. President. Good day again. Mr. Tellado, you said you wanted a clear message from Parliament. On the role I agree that it would be necessary for us to send a clear message from the German Parliament in view of the situation that is currently going through the railway fleet. The fact is that you have made more effort in drafting the initiative, in setting out reasons, than then in the proposed agreement. We tabled an amendment to improve it precisely because you ask the Government of Spain for an immediate response. The immediate answer seems to us to be a little too broad. I don't know if you were afraid that you might have another election result and, then, it wasn't just that they were getting too repulsive to the Government of Spain, but the fact is that it seems to us that the formulation is a little low; it's also because of the experience given to us by the past, with the governments of the People's Party and with the governments of the Socialist Party, where that response was sometimes immediate but negative to Galicia's interests. That's why we tabled an amendment adding a number of questions, because, as always, since the Galician Nationalist Block, we placed the same responsibility on the part of the Government of Madrid, whoever it is, and all the parties involved. So we understand that we must demand that the central government be high, but we must also demand something from the Galician Union, because, reading the explanatory statement of its initiative, it seems that you did everything at all. He spoke of an exceptional moment, then he spoke of a desert crossing, I don't know the wilderness crossing was only Rajoy's Government and not the Feijóo Nuñez Government, but at last we understand that the Galician Union also has to play its role, so we insist on complying with the naval law. And then, as it seems to us that we have to go beyond their answers, we understand that we have to put in a number of demands. First, I would like to stress again in this House that it is necessary to remind the Central Government that the veto that continues to exist actually in civil construction, because the future goes through diversification. So, apart from military charges, there's more life, and civil construction is necessary, repairs are needed, we need to continue in the wind market and turbines and not give up anything, but for that there is also a need for a question that you put in the speech but not in the agreement of the initiative, which is to put a stop to that derivation, which continues, of workload for other points of the state. For example, you mentioned Galician strategic importance in wind. He mentioned it here in the oral exhibition as well. And I want to remember that, precisely, we have to regret as a floating platform for the marine windmill of the Kincardine contract, which had to be done in Fene, is going to be done in the south. Really, if you divert one of five platforms to Puerto Real, it seems to us like bad news. And I also think it would be important for us to send an important message in this, because this is a matter that concerns us, since it is not something that happens only with this example that I just put on, but we could keep quoting others. So we understand that demanding that this doesn't happen, and also demanding a burden of work, is a fundamental thing. Precisely, demanding burden of work were the workers, both from Navantia and the assistants, last Thursday, on April 25th. This is a matter of great concern to us, precisely because you here, Mr. Tellado, have brought out a lot the breast of the F-110 frigates and the Socialist Party's delays in ten months, and that seems very good to us, but it would seem better to us that I had no selective memory and also to remind us of what the People's Party's approach to the F-110 frigates is: a two-year delay in favor of Mr. Morenés' interests and, above all, the small letter of the F-110s, which tells us is that within a few years it will not begin that workload; therefore, we are in front of two or even three years of uncertainty in which there may be dismissals, both in the matrix and in the auxilies, and that is an irresponsibility of the previous central governments. Finally, we also insist on an issue that we consider important, which is the modernization of these yards. We understand that the debate is not that pim pam pom that there is between the People's Party and the Socialist Party whether it's going to be linked or not, and how, at the F-110, but what there has to be is a firm budgetary commitment, and not a justification, which can also come from the Central Government, that as this does not occur within two years, we will delay this. Of course, we demand that these investments be launched immediately and we want this initiative to grow in ambition, but of course we will not oppose that it is too much, because...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u164	Finish. Please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u165	...we understand that it's essential to modernize installations that are obsolete and without whose modernization, of course, it's going to be hard to compete. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u166	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. We welcome students from 5th and 6th CEIP The Doubled, Vigo. You have the floor, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Pérez Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u167	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Mr. Tellado, you said in your first intervention that these frigates were promised, signed the order of execution, in an election campaign. I don't know if you remember when the president of the Union, in the autonomous elections, was also promising fleets and ships that were flooding... right now, the Government of Spain, a socialist government, has just approved the biggest contract — I repeat, the biggest contract — that was never made between the Ministry of Defence and the company Navantia. [[Applause]] I'm referring to the F-110 frigate construction contract, which is a fundamental piece for the future of Ferrol rail yards. The budgeted project is about €4,500,000 and predicts it will generate between twelve and sixteen million hours of work, with an occupation for about 7,000 workers, both from the main company and the auxiliary company, over the next ten years. This contract will help to dynamize the region of Ferrolterra, Eume and Ortegal. The PP government, with Mr. Rajoy in front, Mr. Tellado, has been ruling in Spain for seven years, while you, here in Galicia, were silent. However, after Pedro Sánchez's motion of censure, today they are claiming to the Government of Spain everything that you have not done in seven years of government. It is true that in the 2018 budgets there was a EUR 250 million share in the Ministry of Industry to fund the Navantia in the construction of the frigates, but that does not mean that the contract could be signed, because the technology program was not even approved or decided what type of missile would take the frigates. In addition, if we were to wait until the programme was completed with a multinational linked to senior positions of the previous PP Government, to investigate whether it was possible to use its missile because it was compatible with the rest of the systems, we could not hire the frigates until April 2020. What they must recognize from the PP is that whoever gave the impetus to the F-110 frigate contract was a socialist government, because the PP government had it stored in a drawer. So, if it wasn't for the Socialist Government, we'd have to wait at least a year longer, to keep his word, to get the contract started. [[Applause]] In short, this initiative is a Galician PP strategy to hide what they haven't done in seven years. As for the Strategic Plan of Navantia, signed last December 20, 2018 by the company and trade union federations with representation in the company, with the visa and pleasure of Sepi and the ministries involved, in this plan for the Ferrol shipyard include very ambitious investments, among which highlights the immediateness of the new subblock manufacturing workshop, which will allow you to start applying the model of Estaleiro 4.0 for the manufacture of frigates F-110. This is going to be the most modern workshop in Navantia, where the most modern shipbuilding techniques will be applied, for example, robotization and digitization. The procedures for obtaining the corresponding environmental impact permits with the competent authorities and the studies necessary to start the project of the new manufacturing workshop are currently under way, together with the relevant approvals. What Mr Feijóo has to do, on the other hand, is to take care of his competences, to bet more decisively on the formation of workers and workers who will have to incorporate Navantia and the auxiliary industry, boosting dual FP, funding the university campus in Ferrol and boosting the CIS Center of Cabana. In order for the Union to fulfil its responsibilities, we present an amendment to add: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to develop, in collaboration with Navantia, a plan sufficiently budgeted and a timetable to promote the formation of new incorporation into the Starhouse 4.0 as a dual FP; promote coordination between the main company and its auxiliary companies for training plans; develop the Innovation and Services Centre, CIS, The Cabana." If we do not accept our amendment, we will vote in favour of this initiative. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. Pérez Seco. Mr Casal Vidal has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u169	Again with the case of Navantia. This matter shows how essential Galicia has its own voice in the governance of the state. In 2014, studies were started to develop the Navantia industrial plan, and what was done in the four years of Mr. Rajoy's government and in the ten months of Mr. Sánchez' government? Nothing, nonsense! A lot of brochure, yes, with a lot of 3D illustration, but not a weight to develop, that's the reality. Navantia's industrial plan is still a paper, no budget planning to put it in motion. Until 2018 it was the responsibility of the People's Party, but now it is the responsibility of the Socialist Party. You have to know what the budget is for developing all those projects, where it's going to come from, how it's going to be programmed, how it's going to be scheduled. That's essential for real security. By the end of 2016 the F-110 frigates were ready to be launched, but the PP has paralyzed it for two years, we know why. I'm not going to strike because we've said it many times. Later, Mr. Sánchez was also not the agile he should be, because the project was still ready, but what a chance! it took ten months to get the news out of the mail. What a coincidence, a few days before the election! And now the People's Party presents us with a PNL that the truth looks like a song to the sun. It seems to be unfair again and try to make Navantia's responsibility not to make progress is someone else, and that's why they're at ease. It is clear that what the People's Party is asking for in its GNP is to be asked by the State, it is obvious, but there is much more to go there. The truth is, it's an overly small proposal. It seems the People's Party is no longer ruling in Galicia, it seems they've already assumed that next year they won't be in the Government, because they don't make any proactive proposals on which the Union has competence. As far as state competences are concerned, it is of course necessary to urge the Ministries of Industry and Defence to seek immediate alternatives for the two years in which the yard will actually be stopped, because the frigates F-110, as soon as possible, will be difficult until the end of 2021 to really bear important workload. We also need to urge the leadership of Sepi and Navantia to plan new staff exits and entries, because, in fact, for the conversations we have with all the workers that we have had opportunity, they don't understand that if people are marching with enormous experience and that hundreds of new people are going to enter the yard without a overlap of knowledge transfer. It's really amazing. There's a key theme in the development of Starfleet 4.0, which is the dry dam. I don't know if anyone's seen a dry dam so they can make big ship buildings, but it's a very considerable tingle that's going to require a really complex environmental impact report and it won't take four months to do it. However, it does not seem that the Galician Union is moving to dynamize this environmental impact study. And I say, bear in mind that the dry dam is going to be a manufacturing ship — which is the new shape of the yards — of nearly 350 meters long, 60 or 70 meters long and 60 or 70 meters high, in addition to the exit channels. That, of course, has environmental implications that will take a long time to develop them. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, put it on the move now, that we don't come in two years' time, with another government in the Galician Union, to blame us for not being active in the dry dam workshop. Then we need funding for all this. Where's that plan? Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, where is the programming of these funding? The Galician Union is actually collaborating with 7 million euros with universities to develop R & D+i projects, but it is that it takes a lot more money. How can 150 million euros for Rozas and 7 million euros for Navantia? But does that make sense? Obviously, autonomous mobility has a future, but the yard has thousands of gifts in mind! The reality — we checked it a week ago, when we were back on the yard — is that all we are developing of marine wind is patented by third parties. Navantia has no patent. He's renting solars and a small part of the staff. Practically all staff comes from outside. That's right, with important participation from the auxiliary industries as well. But, Mr. Tellado, in the face of the statement of the one who made you so grateful that there were fourteen persons of Navantia's own staff...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u170	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u171	...working on the jackets, they said I was very optimistic. They told me again: "You've been very optimistic." What do we have to do? Navantia has a workshop of turbines from the most developed in the world, which is not to make jackets, is to do the multipliers, the turbines, the passageways; it could be done there the integral construction of the marine wind farms. That's why we need money, so that the yard really has another way of development, in addition to the shipbuilding. That takes money, and 7 million euros, compared to the 150 million euros of a drone park that we already know why companies are developing... actually, I don't know what interest is! It is truly incomprehensible, gentlemen of the People's Party. They repacitize and have more budgets in R & D and the naval, agri-food and the car, and it would be much better for us to go! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u172	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u173	Thank you, President. I'll start by referring to the amendments so I won't forget, and then I'll answer many questions that are quite surprising. On the amendment of the Galego Nationalist Block, we incorporate everything proposed to us, except point 3.(c) On the amendment of the Socialist Party, Mr. Pérez Seco, is that everything you ask is already being done, so don't take our hair. The Galician Union is involved in this issue. The Galician Union dedicates EUR 9.5 million to Vocational Training for the Naval Sector until 2020. Either they don't know, or they don't know, or they came by. So, finally, understand that we're not going to collaborate with your distraction strategy. The only thing we have here is that there is a Government that, by being able to approve the order of execution of the frigates in July 2018, did so in April 2019. And why? For electionist interest! Look, if we're talking about F-110 frigates today, it's because since 2014 Mariano Rajoy's government has developed this project. You guys didn't do anything! Because they didn't, they didn't even approve the budgets to develop the frigates, which we approved with their vote against. But why are they taking our hair? On the investment, Mrs. Presas, the fact is that the investment of Starry 4.0 cannot go into the state's general budgets, it has to go within the F-110 frigate project, because if it would not be considered illegal State aid. So what we're talking about is that, within the F-110 frigate project, one sees the investment needed to develop the modernization of the facilities. It's 400 million euros. Here Mr. Pérez Seco told us about the investment in a workshop. But why are they taking our hair? What do you think, that Ferrol people don't realize they're taking our hair? He spoke from The Tides of Podemos, or as they call themselves from this afternoon, that we must know what a dry dam is. Look, Mr. Casal, there are five dry dams in Ferrol, but what we're talking about is to make a bigger dry dam, so ships of larger dimensions can get in there. That's what we're talking about. We're talking about an investment of EUR 400 million in Ferrol Station 4.0, in the modernization of the 18th century yard to adapt it to the needs of the 21st century shipbuilding, and the Socialist Party again says no, say no! They passed the execution order ten months late and said no. That's the reality. Mr. Pérez Seco, we thank the clarity that has been expressed and expressed, but if we're talking about F-110 frigates today, it's because a government, that of Mariano Rajoy, that of the People's Party, has developed the design work of this project over the past four years. Not only did we develop the project, we gave the general state budgets the necessary games so that we could sign an execution command. You guys did what? Paralyze it. That's your responsibility. Today there are workers in the naval sector in the Ferrol creek at home, without work. Because of whom? Because someone thought it was better to keep the project ten months and approve it in full electoral campaign so they could go double to the polls in these elections...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u174	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u175	...that's the reality, that's the reality. You were talking about using the fleets. But how do we get our hair? Do you know what situation the People's Party Government has found the naval sector in the Ferrol River? Five years without one job contract at the last stage of President Rodríguez Zapatero. So the fleets you laughed at gave labor and bread to many Ferrolterra families. You're already in the same speech as The Tides of Podemos...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u176	Thank you, thank you. Your time is up, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u177	...that they laughed at the fleets, and the fleets ate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u178	Your time is up, Mr. Tellado. Your time is up. Thank you. [[Applause]] Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u179	We proceed to the vote on non-legislative proposals. Close the doors, please. We begin by voting on the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Carmen Santos Queiruga. There's a compromise proposal that all groups know, so we vote for that transaction. [[Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo Rodríguez asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo, why do you want the word? Give a voice to Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u180	I would like to ask for the separate vote, by points, of paragraph 2a of the transaction, if possible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u181	Mrs. Santos, do you accept that? Thank you. [[Assentment.]] So, first of all, we vote on point 2 of the transaction, which already knows all the groups. We vote. Vote of point 2 of the proposed non-law of the G.P. de In Marea, at the initiative of Da Carmen Santos Queiruga, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the reservation quota set out in Article 42 of the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2013 of 29 November, so the recast text of the General Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and its social inclusion is approved. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This point is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u182	Let us now vote on the rest of the points of the transaction. We vote. Voting of the transactioned text, except point 2, already voted, of the G.P. Non-Law Proposition. de In Marea, at the initiative of Da Carmen Santos Queiruga, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the reservation quota set out in Article 42 of the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2013 of 29 November, so the recast text of the General Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and its social inclusion is approved. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u183	We are now voting on the proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Raúl Fernández Fernández. There is an amendment by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group that has been accepted. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Raúl Fernández Fernández and Mr José Manuel Pérez Seco, on the modernization of agricultural and livestock production structures in order to measure the achievement of the objective of increasing the weight of agricultural producers and farmers in the value chain, especially for milk producers and producers. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 69. The voting is positive. The text of this non-law proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u184	We voted for the Group of the Socialists of Galicia at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo. There is an amendment by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group that has been accepted. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo and D. Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez, on the performances to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the business parks of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u185	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Our Bergangino Press Amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and to the People's Parliamentary Group are accepted. Madam Presas, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u186	For the vote, we would vote on the amendment to replace the People's Parliamentary Group, then on the original paragraph 4 of the BNG, and on the amendment to add the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. I understand that we would vote separately on the amendment to replace the People's Party, and then on the point of the BNG and the Socialist Party, which is no problem in voting together.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u187	We therefore voted first of all on the amendment to replace the People's Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting of the amendment to replace the People's Parliamentary Group on the Non-Law Proposition of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the initiative of Ms Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in connection with the possible relocation of the United States company in Ourense, which provides services for Naturgy. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. This amendment is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u188	We now vote on the rest that Mrs Presas has explained, which is point 4 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. We vote. Original point 4 vote, along with the G.P. addition amendment. of the Galician Socialists, of the Non-Law Proposition of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantiños and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia regarding the possible relocation of the United States company in Ourense, which provides services for Naturgy. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected as a transaction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u189	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Da María Monserrat Prado Cores. There's an amendment from the Popular Parliamentary Group, where a transaction was pending. I don't know if he's got it, and he's got it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u190	Yes, I've read it in the intervention, but it's a little bumpy, you have to admit it. There would be point 1 of the initiative that BNG presented with the addendum of "or at least you will be exempted from going to prison as soon as the pardon request is not resolved."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u191	Thank you, we voted for that transaction. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Bloc, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the demand to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government in relation to the penalty imposed at the Provincial Court of the Coruña to a neighbor of Lira - Carnota - for an incident with a theft of the region. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u192	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera. There is an amendment from the Parliamentary Group of Socialists in Galicia that is accepted, and there is a transaction. Mrs. Egerique Mosquera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u193	The initiative has three paragraphs. We keep 1 and 2 as they are; 3 we change it by the amendment of the Socialist Party; and we call for a point vote. We would vote on 1 and 3 and 2 separately.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u194	Well, everything Mrs. Egerique explained. [[Mr. Bará Torres asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Bará?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u195	We call for all points to be voted on separately.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u196	Mrs. Egerique, will you? So we vote separately on 1, 2 and 3. Let's vote point one. Vote of point 1 of the proposed non-law G.P. At the initiative of Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera and 14 other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Galicia to the Central Government in relation to the processing of an amendment to the General Cost Regulation relating to the deadlines for granting the occupation of the public maritime-terrestrial domain. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 51; abstentions,18. The voting is positive. Point 1 was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u197	We now vote point 2. Vote of point 2 of the proposed non-law of the G.P. At the initiative of Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera and 14 other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Galicia to the Central Government in relation to the processing of an amendment to the General Cost Regulation relating to the deadlines for granting the occupation of the public maritime-terrestrial domain. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 37; votes against, 14; abstentions, 19. The voting is positive. Point 2 was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u198	We now vote point 3. Vote of point 3 of the proposed non-law of the G.P. At the initiative of Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera and 14 other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Galicia to the Central Government in relation to the processing of an amendment to the General Cost Regulation relating to the deadlines for granting the occupation of the public maritime-terrestrial domain. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. Point 3 was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u199	Finally, we voted for the People's Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira. There is an amendment by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group which has been accepted, except for point 3(c) as an addition. Except for point 3.(c) The amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia is not accepted. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and 13 other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament in respect of the request of the Government of Greece to the Central Government for an immediate response to the proposal for the deployment of Navantia Ferrol 4.0 linked to the five frigate construction programme F-110. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 69. The voting is positive. The text of this non-law proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u200	We suspended the session until 6:00. Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u201	We continue the session with the third point, which is that of interpeleration. Interpellation by D. Antón Sánchez García from G.P. of In Marea, on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to the mining, energy, water and waste sectors
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u202	Mr. Sánchez has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u203	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. I wanted to start by saying that there are currently three relevant facts that explain part of the nature of the People's Party and this Government that are going too unnoticed, to my opinion. First, the strong man of the People's Party in rural areas until recently, the president of Youth Farmers until very recently, who for years received millions of grants to work as voter of the People's Party and to be able to spend long weekends on his yacht with high positions of the People's Party, like Mr. Rajoy and Mrs. Ana Pastor, is being prosecuted for a white-trafficking crime. Secondly, there was recently a sentence in which the appointment of the niece of Fraga in the People's Valley was annulled because the valet instigated a diversion of power and arbitrariness; in paladin Roman, a person from the PP had put in someone else from the PP, something typical. And finally, thirdly, the Director General of Energy and Mines, Mr. Tahoces, is charged with an alleged crime of environmental prevarication. It's not bad these three facts coincidentally in time. God is free to pass on to us — and I say to us, to this part of the parliamentary arc. How we would be! We'd have to expand the news. We'd have to expand the covers. But it's seen that the powers go beyond what's a political party and they don't treat everyone the same way. Some of us are more upset than others. Because of the many influences they have to hide reality, the reality is that corruption is part of the People's Party's [DNA]. [[(Expression taken from the Journal of Sessions by order of the President and the author of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure.)]] And I'm also here to talk to you about the mining and Mr. Tahoces, Counsellor, but we haven't come to talk about judicial proceedings, which have a different route, we've come to talk about politics. Because we've asked for Mr. Tahoces' resignation over a year ago for his policies, not for his judicial crimes. We've come to talk about politics, about the policies that you carry out as a government, for example. That's why I'm not talking about justice, Mr. Prado. Because I suspect in Portugal, I suspect in Portugal... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u204	Silence! Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u205	We are talking about the policies that you carry out as a government, which are being implemented, the policies that Mr Tahoces has been pursuing in the Directorate-General for Energy and Mines, by the model that Mr Tahoces has been defending during these years in mining policy, by protecting those who pollute, by protecting that public funds are being used for the business of certain companies. The case of San Fins, so he's accused, unfortunately is not an isolated fact, Counselor, nor are cases of corruption isolated in the People's Party. In the case of mining, it's a rule that happens in San Fins. We could talk about Touro, where for decades, after the closure of the previous exploitation, it contaminated the public domain without the board being free. On the contrary, the neighbours who have been fighting for years and years for defending their surroundings can testify to them as they are the ones who are upset about the mayor of the People's Party, they are annoying to you. Meanwhile, the People's Party alternates in alliances with the company that contaminated the public domain; while the mayor of the Touro People's Party tries to approve urban ballasts for this company. We could also talk about the continuing contaminant acid drainages in Santa Comba, Monte Neme. We could talk about the Ombudsman's reports on the action of the Board to fail to comply with the legal obligation to ensure that Valdeorras' restoration and conservation duties are met. We could talk about the conviction of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, which gives the reason for Corcoesto's neighborhood after five years when the Galician Council denied him access to information about Corcoesto's mine; five years in which they had to fight for something that corresponded to them by law — judgment also directly against Mr Tahoces' decisions. I could tell you about the complaint that the UN has admitted for failure to comply with the obligations of transparency and access to information; that is, once again obstructing the work of civil society in defence of the environment. And finally, we could talk about San Fins, the case that Mr Tahoces is charged with. The tax dilemmas that made Adega public warned of four irregularities and four allegedly delicious clues. The first of them is the absence of an environmental impact study, demanded in 2008 by the Government of the Bipartite but not demanded by Mr. Tahoces with the arrival of the People's Party at Unity, claiming that exploitation had not changed since 1988. He approved the reopening without requiring the need for an environmental impact study, and thus the prosecutor recalled it censoring the attitude of the Administration and recalling that any mention of the conditioner of the environmental impact study disappears from the documentation. We could also talk about the request from the Prosecutor's Office to pour a million cubic metres of mineral water without accompanying an instrument of environmental assessment and impact, still being required by law; or the fact that for decades if they were doing greenery — recognised by the company itself — there are no sanctioning files. We could also remember that he never sanctioned the waters of Galicia, even though in the public water domain of that area, the levels of pollution exceed at many points the limits allowed. And we could explain how, despite the fact that there were two old rafts on the farm — that one is collapsed and that can be a danger to the environment and people — we will ultimately have to, with public money, decentrate and restore those rafts, because Junta is doing the work of that company to exonerate it from that property. That's what the Prosecutor's Office does. It doesn't speak in Marea. And the bad thing is that these are no exceptions, it's the norm in the Galician Union, as I said. In San Fins, Santa Comba, Monte Neme, Corcoesto or Touro there are documented cases of the systematic action of convivence, complicity and tolerance of the Galician Union with this mining sector. By the way, what more is needed to give a folder to the Bull's issue? It's been over two years of processing. Then I'll read article 33 of Law 21/2013, environmental assessment, so you can answer me. But I wanted to ask you: On February 21, the company Copper San Rafael filed a request for suspension of the environmental assessment procedure for four months. Did they grant you permission to suspend the proceedings? Could you answer that? Because, if they haven't given it, the deadline is exhausted; and if they have given it, we'd like to know. Finally, Counsellor, you will come here saying that we are against the mining, that we are against the economy of the country. And it's a lie. What we believe is that there can be an economy without pollution, there can be an improvement in mining activity in relation to the environment, even in the creation of added value, without the need to threaten the environment or the health of people and workers themselves. And what you can't afford or think about is that, for there to be mining, there has to be what's going on in San Fins, in Monte Neme, in Santa Comba, etc. I suppose you should come here to tell us whether you will continue to defend Mr Tahoces' actions and, if he does not resign, if he is going to cease, if you will change the policies of tolerance with environmental aggression and people's health, if you will continue to be interested in defending a model that, as Mr Tahoces says, creates little employment, creates many environmental impacts, environmental liabilities, which we all have to assume in the form of impacts on the environment, on health or on public assumptions that you have to go to do what companies do not do when the exploitation ends; or if, on the contrary, you will protect Mr Tahoces and will defend his performance, and if, from there, you will also assume the political responsibilities that we demand from Mr Bernardo Tahoces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u206	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Mr. Sánchez, there's an expression that can address the dignity of a group, which is an expression that "PP leads to corruption in its DNA." I know what DNA is, and I think a lot of people know it. It seems to me to be an unadorned expression and I ask you if you can remove it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Don't you take it off? Then I'll take it off and call it in order, accordingly. Well, at last, I think these expressions could be avoided. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Sánchez, I come here to fulfill my duty, and I come to fulfill my obligation by applying two principles which I understand are basic in a parliament in which we are representing all the Greeks: respect and rigour. And I'm telling you this because you in your language have at no time respected either this House or the Government or the work that public employees are doing. And, of course, as far as rigor is concerned, I am sorry that you come here to do partial analyses and judgments of value, and, above all, Mr. President, not referring to the inquiry. Because this Government is accountable to all the bodies of this Parliament for all the issues before it. The Director General himself had the opportunity to give you all sorts of explanations in Commission 6a. The President did the same this morning and I come here this afternoon to answer a question about your intervention; intervention that has nothing to do with the inquiry you have brought to this Parliament. I would therefore ask you, firstly, to respect the people, this Government and this Parliament, and also to apply rigour by not transferring partial visions here of what you consider appropriate, but, above all, by referring to the orderly work of this Parliament. [[Applause]] Mr. Sánchez, this administration respects the work of justice absolutely scrupulously, you know. Surely you have a certain confusion about that. And we're working with justice at all times and we're clarifying all the issues that are being investigated right now. And you know, because we have moved it, that we act, and we have the conviction that the Administration has acted, according to what marks the law. And what we're going to do is just believe it. Your insistence on bringing in parallel trials here, judgments of value, confirms that you don't care about the truth at any time. You just make judgments and transfer as truth what is currently just being investigated. It's that double scale that you're continually applying in this kind of situation. Of course, we will continue, as I say, acting knowing that we have the conviction that the Administration has acted according to what marks the law. But if I may, I will transfer to this Parliament the content of your inquiry, which you seem not interested in the policies that this Government is developing in the field of mining, energy and waste. Because you talked about everything but exactly what I was trying to talk to this government. And you, once again, actually, have a story against industry. That's the reality, Mr. Sánchez. In Marea he has an account against industry simply because they continually try to generate rejection and try to act against jobs linked to industry. They don't care about any kind of industry, they don't care about mining, they don't care about industry, they don't care about anything, but you have that story against industry. I deeply regret it, because the industry does what it does is to generate jobs, generate wealth; and therefore we will continue to work and defend the industry. You try to move that situation in which, through your group's position in recent examples like Ence, like Elnosa and Meirama, they just make their opposition to industry clear. I have to come here to claim industry, to claim mining. And that's what we're doing, because we'll continue to defend the whole industry and the whole sustainable mining. Mr. Sánchez, in your position, and repeatedly and continuously, you come here to transfer a general and permanent offense on the mining. I'm sorry, because mining workers don't deserve this attitude of continued contempt of En Marea and that campaign of contempt that your political group wants to move against an activity like mining. I invite you to visit and to know the mining, because it gives me the impression that you live in another reality. And they should probably transfer to their own workers why you think miners' work is unworthy. Why? Do you think your professional work in this Parliament is more worthy than that of mining workers? Think about it, Mr. Sánchez? Because if you think so, I think you live in another reality. And, of course, we cannot admit that general offense that you permanently transfer to mining workers. Just as we can't admit the general and permanent offense that the En Marea Group does about the administration of Greece, whether the Government or the officials themselves. You know that this administration processes all projects following the effective legality and, therefore, keeping both the promoters and society themselves, all the technical, urban and environmental guarantees — applying a law, by the way, approved by the Bipartite, which you often forget that the law we are applying is their law. And this board of Galicia will be defending at all times a sustainable industrial model and we will continue to demand, as I say, a sustainable mining, because we deeply believe that this generates wealth in Galicia. On the accusations made by you, Mr. Sánchez, they are absolutely partial visions, both in the case of Touro — where you know that the company has to comply with the law to overcome the environmental process and, therefore, will not have any kind of authorization until it has all preceptive reports — as in the other cases you have moved in your intervention. In his interlocution he speaks and, indeed, he omits the work that this Government is doing precisely to promote the activity of industry, the activity of energy and mining: the law of enterprise implementation. Why does your group not defend a law that simply requires greater administrative simplification, greater soil ease and more economic incentives? Why? Why don't you defend the position of the wind sector knowing that this law offers a better guarantee for citizenship, that the law promotes an orderly sector, and that the Business Implementation Act also maintains all environmental requirements in the wind sector? Why don't you defend a law that guarantees the owner's position in the mining sector by providing security and transparency? Why don't you support a law that casts a natural environment with clear environmental guarantees and paralyzes processing in the face of any negative report? Why don't you defend a law that bets for a sustainable mining according to Bipartite's own law of management? Why do they not defend the forest sector, therefore, by protecting indigenous tree species and facilitating administrative processing through previous communication? Mr. Sánchez, I regret this sectarian vision that you have of the industry, because, behind that sectarian vision, there are workers, there is employment and there is wealth. And Galicia will continue, and this government will continue, betting on the job and will continue to bet on the industry. And, of course, he'll continue to bet on everything he's supposed to be an opportunity to create jobs, to create wealth, ensuring sustainable development for our economy, both through industry and through mining. And, I insist, mining workers have as much work as you do. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u208	Thank you, Mr. Count. Mr. Sánchez's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u209	Counselor, the work of people in the mining is as worthy as anyone else. I defend their rights, and so much I defend their rights that I know well that they are the ones who have serious difficulties with some entrepreneurs to be able to have rights, even to health; and that unionization in the mining sector is often very difficult; and that they have to fight to be recognized by those rights; and because there are patients with silicosis and because there are serious patients working without conditions. Of course they're worthy! Those who should not be considered worthy are the employers who made them work under those conditions; and you, who tolerated them working under those conditions. Don't come here with cheap demagogy. [[Applause]] Don't put workers as human shields, as they always do. I differ very well from the right of workers to have work. The Meiramas, the Alcoas, the Ences, all have the right to a dignified life, a worthy life that you don't guarantee them with your policies. What there is no right is that you put them as human shields so that there are people in the boards of administration that you meet, so that there are people in the board of directors of Ence who benefit from being friends of you, of your decisions, of your legislative changes to suit and who now use workers as human shields when you yourself were taking the election program that you were to get Ence out of the river. So less demagogy. You say they're defending the industry and we attack the industry. I hope they're much more successful, Counselor, defending the industry. You can see how well they defend her, with Alcoa, with Ferroatlantics, with Meirama even, with Meirama! You knew I was going to shut down. What did you guys do? What did you do when you ruled to have a stable energy frame that would solve the problem of companies like Alcoa—just without going to value what I think, which you already know and doesn't give me time to say, about the future of thermal power stations—? Like everything, Counselor, we must move forward by guaranteeing people's right to work, but we must move forward in the right direction and not defend a model of the past, as you defend when you defend the future of thermals. Well, and then, "I depress the mining." No, no, you misunderstand me, what I'm despising, so to speak, is your job as a government for failing to enforce the law, not just because it's conviving in non-compliance with the law by miners. Because you say I make judgments of value. Look, I come here to make political judgments, but I fully respect justice. And I do politics and not justice. But in the trial that's taking place and where the general director of Energy and Mines is charged, some facts are judged. And you have to check that these facts are criminal, but the facts are there. And the fact that it's clear is that the rivers are contaminated by mining around the San Fins mine. That's proven and recognized by the waters of Galicia. It is shown that contaminated water has been poured out for three decades without permission. You can't deny it here, they're proven. What you're finding is that in Touro you've been seen, without you doing anything about the brakes, contaminated water from acid drainages with high levels of heavy metals. That's a reality, it's not a coincidence. And in Santa Comba the same, and in Monte Neme the same; and in Monte Neme blew a ferry and we're all going to have to pay for the restoration costs. Because the company — certainly one of the Cotino, of the operation Gürtell — has fled and there is no way to shorten it. We'll all have to pay. Counselor, answer what I ask. Will Mr. Tahoces cease? Will Mr. Tahoces cease by these facts, by being complicit in this, by obstructing the work of the people who defend the country? Did you stop by the judgments like that of the Galician High Court of Justice that condemns you for not giving information to the neighbour? And since he talked about Touro, answer what I asked him. Article 33 of Law 21/2013. Public information and consultation procedures will be subject to a one-year review since its completion. After this period without the substantive body having transferred the dossier to the environmental body, in accordance with Article 39.4, for the assessment of the ordinary environmental impact, the substantive body shall declare the expiry of the said procedures". And another: "The technical analysis of the environmental impact file and the formulation of the environmental impact declaration will be carried out within four months from the full reception of the environmental impact file. This period may be extended by two additional months due to duly justified reasons." Do you know when he started counting that deadline? In October, 4 October 2018. We're at the end of April and we have an application for Cobres San Rafael on February 21 asking for a four-month suspension.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u210	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u211	If this suspension has not been authorised, the deadline is exhausted and therefore expiry must be decreed. You answer whether this is so or not, and if you have authorized this suspension and therefore given this company a chance to prove the demonstrable. And I'm setting a lot of examples of what the interrogation was about, Counselor. And you can't defend a model in which 81% of the capital is foreign, where you generate all those impacts that you have to cost us, Counselor. That's not the future for this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u212	Thank you. Close the appeal by the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u213	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Sánchez, almost, almost, is beginning to pose the contents of the inquiry. It's a pity, unfortunately, I hadn't started at the end. So we could certainly address what you're proposing in the interpellation. Let me move that when one in this Parliament focuses all its role on politics, on demagogy and abandons rigour, because unfortunately it can lead to truly anachronistic situations. Because, Mr. Sánchez, you have been supporting Pedro Sánchez's government. Or have you forgotten? Have you forgotten that you ruled with Pedro Sánchez and you haven't given Alcoa a solution, have you closed Meirama and you want to close Ence, or what are we talking about? And now do you come to tell me that we are not defending the workers of Ence, Alcoa and Meirama? Let me tell you that your demagogy, unfortunately, what it is cost is jobs in Galicia, and that it is costing you industry in Galicia. We have a government decision supported by you — and that will lead to your political support, unfortunately — with the closure of Meirama. And we'll see and hope -- we'll fight for it -- that Alcoa and Ence have a solution. But unfortunately In Marea can't come here to defend the industry; unfortunately, because she's not defending it in Madrid either. [[Applause]] Your Honor, we defend mining, we defend industry, we defend the energy sector, and we defend a sustainable mining. We defend mining, first, because we believe in it; second, because it's a legal activity. You forget many times, when you come here to speak to Parliament, that mining is a legal activity and is perfectly regulated. They forget that mining generates jobs, that there are 14,000 Welsh and Welsh people working in this industry today. Surely you should move them that their employment is not positive, that's what they permanently move in this gallery. Mining generates wealth, generates wealth too, and generates, of course, benefits. And you know that it also generates important taxes, because the environmental taxes of the Galician Union each year contribute about 90 million euros so that we can develop our policies. That, Mr. Sánchez, is the reality that prevails over the black portrait that makes In Marea de Galicia, a permanent black portrait that affects industry, that affects mining, and that unfortunately when you share government responsibilities, they do not apply. How curious! When you're in government, industry and mining is positive. "Aragon gives green light to 111 wind and solar parks; "Castela la Mancha plans to triple its power of renewable energy." In the mining industry, "Stream processes 230 new mining projects," "Asturias has eight projects of raw materials mining." Why do you, when you rule in other autonomous communities, defend mining, defend industry, and when you have to talk here in Galicia, are you going to set off industrial activity, energy and mining? What did Galicia do to them, Mr. Sánchez? What did the Greek mining workers do to them? They certainly don't deserve this deal. We formally ask them to stop undermining an industry that has always been present in Galicia, Mr Sánchez — where we always have mining activity in Galicia — and to stop undermining the dignity and professionalism of the thousands of people who continue to work in mining today. They don't deserve this contempt and they don't deserve this abuse. I urge you, the miners and their work have the same value as yours, and you should respect it and even defend it. We will continue with that strategy that for us is a country strategy, which is a solvent strategy. We act with complete transparency and we are complying with the law permanently, and we think that by defending mining we defend industry, we defend employment and, above all, we defend an economic activity which, as I said, has always been in our country. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u214	Thank you, Counselor. Interpellation by D. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to the situation of the physiotherapy service in the public health system
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u215	Mr. Torrado has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u216	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. We are bringing this issue to the debate today, which has already been discussed in Commission 5th on a number of occasions, and in this plenary too — sometimes on a peripheral basis and sometimes on a direct basis — and which remains a matter which is relevant to us. It shows in a way, although it focuses only on the space of physiotherapy, a reality about primary care, which, as you know, is worrying to us and that we don't share many of the issues that you're making; some of them, but we don't share the general analysis or the model that you're developing. We believe that physiotherapy demonstrates why some things are not working and, in fact, where some of the problems are. We believe this is a service, the physiotherapy service and the work that physiotherapists and physiotherapists do, very important in primary care. But these are really empty words sometimes, because at all they say it's important. And when everything is important, it seems that nothing is. Why is it relevant? We have a kind of population, as we've all said here and how I think we all share, with a certain specific problem, especially for the average age of our population, for the conditions and for a purely demographic issue. This population usually has certain problems, which, in addition to the eternal problem of chronicity — which deserves another type of more global attention — have a lot to do with mobility problems and problems for which physiotherapy and its knowledge could be taken advantage of in a very strong way to help solve them. So from a certain point of view, we could even consider that physiotherapy should be especially a service or a specialty that we should have with more affection, because it would help a lot more to solve some of the problems. And I would also contribute to it in a more direct way. Because one of the problems — and now I will talk about it — is that physiotherapy is at the end of the care circuit, and that is a problem that we have in our system. In general, physical therapists also live — well through the organs that group them, well directly — the problem that lives our primary attention lately. And it's that they're constantly facing a series of problems that not only do they receive, often, no one who listens to them, but they even get rather ugly and out of place answers, or feel directly excluded from some decisions. It happened in this attempt to reformulate the primary care model that you started, which initially did not count on them, that they had practically to introduce themselves, I don't say to the brave but almost, they had to self-invit themselves to some meetings, because you didn't invite them. They're so at the end of the system, Counselor, they haven't even agreed to call them. And that's a problem, because then we're not considering the whole system. There's unattended primary care, and this has to do with -- and we talked about it yesterday to some extent, you've heard about it many times -- with two essential problems. One is an erratic planning. You guys started to realize now that people retire and that we have a population in a certain way. They began to realize now that there are work problems, they even began to realize now that these new contracts had to be made and the demands of the professionals were met. Well, it's never late if it's for good, but sometimes it's too late. And you've come to realize it's too late. It's a rather erratic planning. The truth is, I remember what happened to the retirements, who first dropped them, then they went up, then they went down again, and they went up again; a little like Pablo Casado's minimum salary, which goes up when he goes down and down when he goes up. You know everyone has the right to be wrong. And it also occurs in primary care that there is sometimes a bit of pride from the direction. Yesterday I was quoting a case from his address, from the manager of Vigo's EOXI, with some qualifications he did about the doctors — and about which, by the way, we haven't seen at any time that no one, at least, had apologized, some statements that were out of place. In general, and going back to the physiotherapists, you forgot about them. They were there and they had to remember that they were, because there were few, and so they forgot. That's the first of the problems, which are very few. Look, in the last year of the government that President Emilio Pérez Touriño — you know, the one you use to blame him for almost everything; now there's Pedro Sánchez, but the one you use to blame him for almost everything — they called — and corrected me if I am wrong — in the last year of that legislation, 54 steps for physiotherapists in the Galician Health System, 54. They obviously didn't correct all the need, but it was a contribution. That was the 2009 call. Since that, in 2010, you summoned zero; in 2011 they called zero; in 2012 -- they were already there two years and so, and then they had to be corrected -- zero; in 2013, when there were three years that they didn't call and they had to be corrected, they called zero; in 2014, they were already four years without calling, do you know how many they called? Zero. He arrived in 2015 — we stopped — and they called 11. All right! They should already be enough, because in 2016 do you know how many they called? Sky! In 2017 — they only called in a year of seven — sky! At the penultimate summons do you know how many have called? Sky! They have now called 71—that you don't have to see that there are municipal elections or that there have been elections before, it doesn't have to do with, it doesn't have to do with, uh!, it was absolute coincidence! It wasn't very good for them from the election call, but it was 71, curiously the same number of Members who lost the PP. Let's see if they're going to go in as physiotherapists in Sergas all the Members who lost the PP in Madrid! It was 71, which is a good number. It's true that you didn't know the Members who were going to lose the PP, it's not possible. It wasn't very difficult to reach, but more or less. You're all right, 71, it's a good number and it's a big call this year. Of course, Counselor, this summons is a good summons. It happens that there are many internals, many more than 71, and therefore they won't even arrive to solve the instability situation that exists. But 71 in a summons is a good summons. Ten years to make a reasonable call, ten years! And yet accumulation of defect in numbers causes us to have a situation of instability. There is in the Galego Health System, in primary care, which is practically what we are particularly concerned about — we are concerned about the whole system but knows that the interpellation is centered on it — 159 physiotherapy professionals. This gives, round, an estimate of 1 per 17,000 inhabitants. In the area of Vigo, 1 every 24,000. The World Health Organization, which gives some ratios for virtually everything -- it's usually true that they are very demanding on some issues, too ideal and they don't take account of management difficulties, that's obvious, but they can serve a certain standard -- says 1 per 3,000. We're six times worse than the World Health Organization ratio. You don't have to assume that everything you do at least the WHO ratio is very bad. Because it's true that it's difficult, from the point of view of management, to meet all the ratios. The World Health Organization is a very good and very useful organization, but it's not a government and sometimes it doesn't have the problems of managing a government. And that's what we recognize. But six times it's not, of course, a good data. We therefore believe that it is absolutely insufficient. Any level of care can show that there is a problem with the level of presence of physiotherapy and therefore there is no need to go to those ratios, but it's a good data. We have this problem, WHO says 1 out of 3,000, and 1 out of 1 out of 17,000 is what we have in Galicia; and 1 out of 24,000 in the health area of Vigo. So there's a staff problem. There is a second problem, which is training and training. Not because they have little, but because everyone they have doesn't develop it. And that's what I was asking you at first. The truth is, we have the physics at the end of the system, and they could do a lot to solve many of the problems within a multidisciplinary team in primary care, which today is on paper but not in reality. We have an excessively focused model on the optional professional, which is the axis, is the relevant one, of course, that is what the captain, as he says in simpler terms, is the assistance team. But it must not be the only one or all matters must pass. So many doctors are going through even a lot of purely bureaucratic, administrative issues; and eventually we have doctors deriving from other primary specialists, deriving or doing bureaucratic work. In the end, they don't have time to take care of their patients. And besides, as they put them fifty a day, so the thing is already going out. So we have a need to redeploy tasks. Obviously with supervision, but with the ability that we have that physiotherapy professionals, like nurses, nurses and other professionals, could have faster and easier access to patients. Why? Because that's how we'd be able to unravel the system and not make an embezzlement. The doctor or the doctor must be the axis but it shouldn't be the only input mouth, because then we have a saturation problem about him and the other professionals don't have the ability to develop training that, as you know, are very good because we have a high level of training and very good professionals. So this call to reflection on this aspect also considers it important, and to know if you think we should boost the physical therapist figure within the system or stay as a derivation option after passing through other processes in primary care. And thirdly, and very simple, there's a guide to physiotherapy -- you know -- in which Sergas collaborated and worked with the Official Physiotherapy College, he collaborated to do it. It was a very simple collaboration: they sat down to decide how they collaborated and took care of the school that had done it. It's like the bad teammates at school: work between two people who, in the end, did it and sold it to each other. But, well, this happens. You agreed to that and the physiotherapists gave you that guide drawn up in 2017. And you signed the commitment to only receive it and broadcast it in 2017. We're going in the middle of 2019 and we still don't know anything about the guide. In fact, physical therapists don't even know where he is — that you can lose an email or a paper document, but there are copies. Where's the physiotherapy guide? Because the problem is that that guide pointed them out and put some duties on them that you probably don't want to assume. But if they are committed to developing it, they should now at least introduce it. There's a staff problem and there's a problem of under-use of physiotherapy professionals. And there's also the problem that you don't know where that guide is, that you could give a lot of clues. Those are the three things that seem important to us and what we're talking about today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u217	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u218	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. The truth is, I see him happy today. I don't know if you aspire to be the next Minister of Health. Everything can be in this country, that's why I see it plethoracic. [[Laughter]] I see him very happy and plethoracic. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Mr. Torrado, the definition you make in your question, which we consider to be the specialty of physiotherapy as a minor specialty, I think it is, of course, outside of what is the reality and the Greek health. It's completely groundless. We value, and much, the excellent work that workers do every day at primary care physiotherapy units, which we always recognize and thank since the Galician Health Service. In Galicia physiotherapy has been incorporated for years in primary care centers, since the 1990s -- I don't know if Mr. Touriño was still studying when physiotherapy was already in the Greek public system. And we count on a group of very important professionals. I can ask you, for example, because you like the questions from the atril -- I've asked you, because we believe that physiotherapy is a minor specialty -- do you know how many physiotherapists in primary care there are in the Basque Country? Sky! The health that is considered to be the best in Spain today has no physiotherapists in primary care. And in the primary care strategy they're approved, they have an action called "deployment of physiotherapy as part of the primary care service portfolio." And the goal for this year 2019 is to consolidate physiotherapy in three health centres, to extend this provision to EOXI Bilbao-Basurto in 2020 and in years after the rest of Basquedi. This will mean the creation of six physiotherapists squares this year and eight more by 2020. So, I think, if we consider physiotherapy to be a minor specialty, in the Basque Country they still consider it much less. We've been working on improvement measures that allow the primary care model to evolve and respond to the needs of our citizens. Other autonomous communities want to know our model. Since the Galician Health Service we have been carrying out important improvement measures for years: annual OPEs — very few autonomous communities have annual OPEs —, extension of retirement age, open and permanent competition, professional career, continuity contract, creation of specialties in nursing, both pediatrics and family medicine. As you know, and in order to be able to move forward and improve in the primary care model, in December we started a more participatory and transparent process in primary care and that has no background in our community and the rest of the state. We have to say, for example, that the Ministry has tried to copy this participatory model and, of course, physiotherapy does not have it in its programming. Because the measures that must be taken inevitably go through the participation of all, the public administration, professionals and citizenship, because we are all responsible for maintaining what has taken us so long. Dialogue and shared decisions are imposed. Among the different working groups, we have the participation of primary care physiotherapists — those we don't know — in whom we have been represented both the Galician Society of Physiotherapy, Sogafi, and the Galician Physiotherapy College, Cofiga, together with a representative of each health area, professionals who are currently working in the Greek Public System. And they've reached commitments signed by these collectives. One of them is the inclusion of physical therapy in a functional way as one more member of the basic primary care team, so that it participates in the issues related to physiotherapy in health centres — as I told you earlier, the Basque Country, for example, now starts that path that we have fully consolidated. Another is the recognition of the autonomy of the physiotherapist in his professional development at this level of care, always taking into account the necessary coordination between primary care physiotherapy units with hospital rehabilitation services. There will also be a primary care physiotherapy coordinator who will have the necessary time and the corresponding decrease in care load to develop all tasks related to his position. There is also the development of a new course of action in physiotherapy in primary care, cornerstone and written reference of the development of the new model, in which we will start working in the medium term by counting on primary care professionals. The goal is to achieve a document that reflects what physiotherapy can provide and solve at this first level of care and which will also serve to improve your professional relationship. The progressive implementation of the measures necessary to make possible in the long term the change in the role of physiotherapy in primary care and the creation of new physiotherapy squares in primary care in the period 2019-2024. I mean, creation, we're talking not only about the OPE, about making workers stable, but also about creating new squares, which is being discussed within the sectoral table — which we have had the first meeting a few days ago, and this week we'll have the second one. Among the professionals of primary care teams it is necessary to create stronger relationships, to move away from the traditional interaction of "a patient, a professional" towards a reference team approach, which is called "the header team" specialists, in which the physiotherapist is a part to establish an individualized care strategy for each patient according to an individualized integral care plan. You said that: the chronic patient, the polymedicated patient, the older patient. So we will promote the presence, within the primary care services, of professional categories whose role is also fundamental in the development of attention to chronicity and the aging of the population, such as, of course, physiotherapy. In addition, electronic clinical history in the field of physiotherapy will be improved, including, as I say, the necessary items to follow up patients so that we have the modules that allow a better development of the care activity of physiotherapy. Another of the objectives proposed for the improvement of training and the teaching of the physiotherapy category is to increase the presence of primary care during the university training of physiotherapy. For this, university will be asked to increase the number of primary tutors in the degree of physiotherapy. This is our commitment and we will maintain total collaboration with the physiotherapists of Galicia, because since the Council of Health we know the importance and the undoubtedly value that the physiotherapy professionals of the Galego Health Service provide, primarily in the field of attention to chronic pathology and in the prevention of musculoskeletal pathologies. And we'll continue, of course, working in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u219	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Torrado's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u220	Thank you, President. Don't worry, Counselor, that I won't be a minister. I'm not trained.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u221	You don't know.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u222	No, believe me, Mr. President, I'm not trained, no, no, no. It's just, for the executives, it's not worth any of them. [[Murmurs.]] We know, I don't know if you... it's true that everything can happen. Pablo Casado was president of the PP and presented himself to some elections, and he thought he could win. Everything can happen. I thought I could win. Who was going to say it about Pedro Sánchez! Do you know the difference between Pedro Sánchez and Pablo Casado? That Pedro Sánchez is president and Pablo Casado is not, that's the difference. But nothing, go on, go on, if there's no problem. [[Murmurs.]] In the morning, someone said... Don't worry, don't worry. [[Murmurs.]] If there's now president for four years, calm down... it's a good day, too, there's no problem. [[Laughter]] They said in the morning we spent ten months campaigning. I'm going to tell you a secret, although we shouldn't tell you the strategies: the Socialist Party's best campaign was the People's Party, there's no need to let them talk. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] They speak, they speak, if so, the more they speak, the more Members. [[Murmurs.]] Don't worry about Feijóo, who Feijóo also won the elections, calm down.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u223	Silence! Silence! That's it! Please, let us resume the debate! We're talking about physiotherapy. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u224	Physical therapists are needed, they do a good job and they relax very physically, and that also relaxes very psychologically, which is important. [[Murmurs.]] After the joke, can I? I have a debate, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u225	Quiet, please! Don't provoke us either. You're talking about physiotherapy. If you provoke us, we'll have this. Don't provoke us, come on! [[Laughter]] It's been a good joke! [[Murmurs.]] I think you need to have a moment of relaxation, it can't be all that tension. But now go to physiotherapy. Let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u226	If, in the end, it's always our fault.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u227	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u228	Let's try it that way, Counselor. Look, you've raised here some questions in terms, the truth, that conceptually are good: empowering, encouraging, working, improving... but they don't translate into any particular question. He spoke here about the OPE, but generally. Because I remind him of the data I gave him: in ten years, a year they called 11 squares; another year they called 71; but the rest of the years, zero squares. It's hard to talk about OPE when we talk about physiotherapy. You're talking about the OPE, but you don't really tell us whether you intend to continue with the last year's model —71 squares — that's fine. Maybe you don't have to do so many, but we think so. We took very recently to the Health Commission an initiative which proposed incorporating a number — not immediate planning but three years from now, which could be four, five, two or three — an estimate that you considered to increase at least 50% of the existing ones. So we wouldn't cover the need for the ratios that still exist, but if we helped to alleviate the deficit a little bit. It doesn't give us any concretion, and we'd like to know if you've planned some concretion and if you can move something forward in that direction. You're talking about boosting the work of physiotherapists in primary care teams, but how. Because potentiating, improving or developing is good. But he says, "We're already working." "We're already working" is quite common as an answer, but what is the real realization? Because I remind you that physiotherapists have arrived at the meetings of primary care models, reformulation, almost on their own will. You forgot to call them in your first intention. So it's hard to defend that you're very worried about them when they haven't called them. If they didn't even remember who to call, it's hard to assume they were going to. He didn't tell me anything about the guide. All right, two years ago a guide was agreed. They've been handed over. You promised to spread it in 2018 and we're already in 2019. What happened to the guide, which is already done? Did they put her on the web or report her broadcast, collaborated with the official school, or with whom you considered to spread that work? He didn't tell me anything either. He's certainly devoted himself to talking about vagusities, Counselor. And in vagueness you sometimes experience, but in the end, you have to put them into practice in some way. And we asked: do you have any realization of the number of squares that will be convened in the coming years—nearly but with some number, with some commitment? Do you think some of the measures that are going to develop really empower — but with specific questions — the work of physiotherapists within the primary care model? Do you think you should continue in the situation where you are or have to feel more prioritized or move on to the most leading positions when you evaluate them? I don't know if, for example, they consider the possibility that there are problems that evaluate almost early ones, without needing them to pass through other specialists, who are also gateways, in some way, to musculoskeletal problems, for example. Tell them whether they consider it or not, if their conception is that the doctor should be the central axis, the first one, always the first one, that they should evaluate patients or they think there could be a redistribution. In this sense, changes in the primary care model go...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u229	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u230	...and in that sense we want to know whether they have any forecasts. And we need to know that some of the issues we can share. You made some statement that we shared and therefore might be of interest. But he said many vaguenesses without any concretion, and we hope that, thinking of the motion that might result from this interpellation, we can find some place where we can wake something up. Because in the end, if not...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u231	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u232	...we'll keep what you're dedicated to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u233	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u234	...the despotting of the minister, but then concretely, concretely, in Galicia little concrete. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u235	Thank you, Mr. Torrado, thank you. Close the interrogation by the Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u236	The truth is that it's funny to slow down, slow down, slow down... that's really slow down, come here to talk about physiotherapy and dedicate half of the intervention to subjects of slow down, slow down and slow down. Well, no, we're for something else. Look, just as at the time when the National Health System was formed, today the measures that must be taken are inevitably passed by the participation of all: public administrations, professionals and citizenship. Because we are all responsible for maintaining, as I said, this public system. And do you know why there have been no more offers in greater numbers during these years? Because there was an economic crisis powered by a government led by Mr. Zapatero, which made it that there was no replacement rate and could not create new squares in public services, especially in health care. Therefore, the cause you know perfectly well. Do you know why Mr. Tourinño, who did so much for public health, didn't increase the number of physiotherapists? First of all, for something basic, because we need to create new infrastructures. And in the Bipartite, there was virtually no new health centre. And those who are building President Feijóo, in the ten years of his term of office, the new health centers, lead gymnasiums, which is logically where physiotherapists can work. So when we talk about planning, it's not just slowing down, slowing down, slowing down, but planning the infrastructure and training of specialists, and then hiring. Well, look, you're right, at this idea we approved a stabilisation plan a few years ago with most unions, and we wanted to go beyond what the Ministry of Fairy, at Madrid level -- at that time with Mr. Montoro -- said we had to achieve, the target of 8% possibles. And our commitment is to end 2020 with 5%. So we take out all the squares we have available. And that's why the number was right, it was right. It's 71 squares that go out, because in the least number specialties they don't call every year. For a matter of practice, they accumulate for a few years so that there's an appropriate number so that professionals who want to be able to present themselves and take a stable place. Today, with this call, stability is already, of course assured. But besides that, another thing: that we're going to create new squares. This is new, this is bigger, new squares. But I'm not going to give the number, the number will come out of the discussion we have on the sectoral table in the next few days, so that different categories can be incorporated in more numbers. And that this Government itself bets on public health indicates that this year we have, for the first time, a budget higher than you had in the Bipartite, than in that moment, in the last year of the Bipartite, the general budget of the Board was much higher than we still have at this moment. At that time, the Bipartite devoted 35% to health care, and at the moment 40.5% went to health care. So, of course. The Autonomous Community of Galicia is on average among physiotherapy professionals with respect to autonomous communities, in front of communities such as Andalusia—only—, Catalonia, Aragon, Canary Islands, Extreme, La Rioja and, of course, the Basque Country too. The Health Council will develop and implement a physical therapy guide. When he speaks, then he doesn't listen, because I talked about the guide and he asks again for the guide. As for the guide, we are now adapting the initial one to the new primary care model, which is fundamental. And that's why, as I said, we did count on physiotherapists to make a new model. The ministry doesn't count on physiotherapists. And what we want to do is we're not talking about the head doctor as the only attention that a citizen has, but that he has a head team. And there, with different protocols, you'll be able to access each other as needed. So let's talk about equipment and not talk about individuals in primary care. We're going to continue working, as I say, in this strategy, which we want to close in May, this May month that begins tomorrow. And we're going forward, as I say, in most autonomous communities. The only ones who had work to do that new model were the Basque Country, and something also the Canary Islands. But it was not such a participatory model, where professionals, citizens and trade union representatives were included. And, as I say, we're going to end up with an economic memory, with a protocol of action in the different professional categories, to enrich a model that is a model of success, valued by citizenship, but which we understand must continue to improve. Of course, the Galician Union is fully involved from every point of view: dedication of time, of professionals, but also with budgets to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u237	Thank you, Mr Vázquez Almuína. We're still on the agenda. Interpellation by Mr. Luís Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Mr. Da. Maria de la Concepción Burgo López, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Italian Government in relation to the timetable of non-university teaching staff
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u238	Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u239	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, Counselor, and welcome to this Parliament. First of all, and on a preventive basis, I want to tell you that this plea does not arise as a necessity that I am seeking to be Minister of Education or Secretary of State or Director General in the future organizational chart of the Ministry. I say it on a preventive basis, on a preventive basis. [[Laughter]] I said it, I said it. [[Murmurs.]] More than anything in case you could interpret it that way. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] This explanation, ultimately, is about the working conditions of the best that our education system has, as you always say, and I share -- that are the teachers and teachers who perform their task in the centers of our autonomous community. Mr. President of the Board said this morning that Galicia was an autonomous community loyal to anyone who ruled in the state. But I remember your predecessor, when the Ministry announced the intention to amend the rules governing the schedules, that famous Royal Decree Law 14, of the year 2012. And his predecessor said they were invited and we paid, when he should actually have said that, with the teachers' schedule, the Council invited and the teachers paid with their schedules increasing his teaching schedule. Let's make a brief little story about how teachers' schedules have evolved in our autonomous community. We're going back to only thirty-two years ago, to the year 1987, when, for the first time since the autonomous community, teachers' schedules are generally regulated. And it is then, in 1997 — with the publication of the order of development of the organic regulations of the centres — when they are concrete, but it does not alter the overall calculation of the weekly hours that each teacher and each teacher must carry out in our autonomous community. So I'm talking about twenty-two years ago. In 2007, and by agreement with the trade union organizations, the hours of the teachers' body were changed, which was reduced from 25 to 21 school sessions — hours in the case of this group. And in 2011 the reduction agreed to for the teacher body is withdrawn, but not because of needs related to the educational organization, but rather with the attention of the student in time, above all, that takes place between the students arriving at the schools in school transport and the educational activity begins. In fact, the order that governed this amendment, the Order of 23 June 2011 states in its first paragraph that it is necessary to regulate the duty of care and custody that the teacher has on the student in the schools of childhood and primary education, compulsory secondary education, etc., throughout the general hours of the centre and, in particular, during periods of time that range from the time that the student reaches the educational centre and begins the educational activities and from the end of the activities and the student is collected by his parents or legal guardians or leaves the educational centre in school transport. That is to say, the real reason for this change was to give cover to this need for custody, it was not a question that those hours were insufficient to meet educational activities, as the fact that the teachers' catalogues were not modified as a result of this time change, that is, they were still sufficient to develop their complete educational activities. And in 2012 it changes the hours of secondary bodies as a result of that royal decree. You see — allow me, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the commentary — a real decree law, that figure so bold, made by a government with an absolute majority, by a government with an absolute majority that resorted to that catastrophic legislative figure. And it has changed — I insist — the schedule. We now have a new regulatory framework which repeals those minimums imposed by Royal Decree No. 14/2012, and which says that this is, of course, the hours of teachers, an aspect which has been regulated by each educational administration, and even though the Constitutional Court has evaluated the competence of the State to regulate on a basic basis the minimum school day of teachers, before changing the economic environment and failing to cope with the circumstances that motivated the adoption of that real law, it seems reasonable to reverse the situation and — I underline this — "to leave the various educational administrations again for the regulation of matter". And it must be borne in mind, moreover, that this does not affect the working days of the teachers, that it keeps within the same limits as for the rest of the public employees. It is therefore clear that the State leaves the autonomous communities with competence to set the margins for teachers' hours. And let's now see what the reality of teaching in the autonomous community has been since the People's Party. What does the teacher -- everything -- do on his weekly schedule? For, look, the rules themselves speak of attending meetings of clauses, evaluation sessions, preparation of laboratory practices, workshops and similar activities, pedagogical coordination activities, complementary activities with students and extra-school activities, tutoring of teachers in practice, working in teaching teams of institutional projects in which the institute participates or assistance in training activities. Almost nothing! But besides, within the hours of compulsory stay in the center, the teacher had an hour of tutoring for students, an hour of tutoring for parents' attention, and at least an hour of dedication to the seminary, to the teaching departments, ultimately. And that's all you've got to do, despite the fact that you've reduced the teacher's schedule -- I mean complementary hours -- and left them just in an hour to pay attention to all these activities. I'm talking about parent and mother puppetry, I'm talking about department meetings, I'm talking about coordination activities. And, look, Counsellor, the reality of the evolution of teachers in the autonomous community since you rule, is this one that is on this chart, which is taken from the official statistics of the Galician Union. Unless there is an involuntary error in loading data, nothing is false in this chart. [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez shows a chart from the panel of speakers.]] That is to say, this is the professor who was in 2008 — the terrible government bipartite — and this is from 2009 — the sensible government of the People's Party; then it comes from 2010 and suddenly you decide that it is necessary to reduce the number of teachers. I don't know why. And they reduce in such a way that between 2010 and 2018 — all governments of the People's Party — there are 1,472 teachers less in this autonomous community. I insist, it's official data. If this in itself is already bad and gives good evidence of how far you are able to cut, the truth is, we've met, year after year, systematically... and this graph reflects only the last two years, 2017 and 2018. The left column is the number of teachers in the autonomous community, and the one on the right — true hope — is the number of teachers that you systematically plan every year. That is, in 2017, there were 1,100 more teachers in the budgets than they actually did in the centers of our autonomous community. And in 2018 there's 1,088 more. Therefore, if the budget of the Education Council is able to bear — at least theoretically — that amount of teachers, it seems reasonable to suppose that the education system of that number of teachers can be provided, and thus recover the conditions that teachers had before these reductions in their labour rights as a result of that legislation. I insist, you didn't need to wait for the State to publish those regulations that affected the high school teachers' body to increase the number of hours of teachers and thus restrict, reduce, their number and also, in some ways, reduce their ability to properly manage the time needed for all those activities I referred to earlier. So being published not a new royal decree but a law passed by the State Parliament, by Congress, and therefore being the will of the autonomous community to maintain that minimum or reduce it, I ask you in this inquiry whether you intend to modify the current regulatory framework that regulates the hours of teaching staff and, if not, why do you think it is necessary to maintain that number of hours? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u240	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. The answer is addressed to Mrs. Education and University Counsellor, Mrs. Pomar Tojo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u241	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Well, Mr Álvarez, the first thing I want to say today is that Galicia has an educational model — you said — adapted to the social, demographic and territorial reality of our autonomous community, and that it is the result of responsible educational policies; responsible educational policies on the use of available resources at every moment and innovative in terms of what has to do with educational advances. In Greek education, the quality of education and the proper attention for all the student is guaranteed, thanks to the good work done by the teaching staff, but also thanks to an organization of educational supply and material and human resources by the Education Council, making use of its own competences and, as you said, since institutional loyalty. And under the necessary premises for compliance with regulations and the efficient use of available resources, in Galicia we have a sufficient teaching staff that in any case is adjusted to the real demands that appear at the start of the course. There can be no doubt that the teaching of Greek is organized to give an answer to the student. And we believe that, in this respect, the positive evolution of the school dropout rate shows that this is a reality and not a statement of intent. Galicia has registered in the first quarter of 2019 the lowest rate of dropout in education will be due early in this time period of the last few years. We're talking about 12.8%, which also means a downturn of 3.2 points over the same quarter of 2018. The data from the first quarter of 2019 shows the positive trend in recent years. Let's not forget that in 2009 we inherited a school dropout rate of 26% and lowered it, as it said, in 2018 to 14.3%. Mr. Álvarez, you support this question about the regulation of teaching hours for teachers, about a socialist policy amendment that curiously leaves communities to apply the provisions of Law 4/2019, of 7 March, of improving the conditions for the performance of teaching and teaching in the field of non-university education. I hope the Socialists will answer the questions that many citizens are asking and that they can move to their legitimate national leaders. Will they count on the autonomous communities to improve the quality of education and to reach agreements on education? The socialists abandoned the possible education pact promoted by the People's Party because they wanted more investment in education. Will they provide economic resources to implement measures that may arise from a new policy framework in education? Because, at least until now, the central government presided over by Pedro Sánchez takes measures without bringing the funds to the communities. Because that's what we're talking about today. They don't match their criticisms to reality. In view of what happened in other communities, in Galicia there was an early reaction and different from the economic crisis situation that we lived years ago, which minimized the impact of this on education. Royal Decree 14/2012 of 20 April 2012 on urgent measures to rationalise public spending in the field of education, established in its third article that the educational part of the weekly day of teaching staff who imparts the teachings regulated in Organic Law 2/2006, of 3 May, of education in public and private centres supported by public funds, will be at least 25 hours in child and primary education and 20 hours in the remaining teachings, without prejudice to the situations of reduction of days collected in the applicable legislation. As it is known, this royal decree came into force on April 22, 2012, but in Galicia at that time the Greek education system was working well; therefore, the German Government did not make any changes in this regard. What allowed you not to take the measure? For, as you well said, according to June 8, 2007 of the College of Education and Universitary Order and trade union organizations, new catalogues of jobs were established in the primary and children's education centres, and it was determined that the educational hours of teachers' staff would be reduced from 25 to 21 hours of schooling; and the fixed weekly hours, from 30 to 25. Experience has shown that increases in jobs involving these new catalogues did not compensate for the educational hourly reduction that occurred in educational centres from 25 to 21 hours a week. Disadvantages have been caused by the failure to ensure the presence of all the teachers of these centres during the 25 hours of teaching of the student in the center. The Education Council may not have done anything, but it has acted to correct this situation in the interest of improving the attention of the student. For that reason, the Order of 23 June 2011, which regulates the working day of the staff and the teaching work, has re-established a working day of 37 and a half hours, from which 30 hours are devoted to the activities of the centre with the same presence and 25 would have a lective character, at the rate of 5 hours a day from Monday to Friday. As you also pointed out, it was regulated that they would calculate as a leisure time the guards, the recreation guards, the guards to keep the student in custody in the period of time that passes from the arrival of the transport at the start of the school activity and from the end of the activity to the exit of the school transport. The March 2011 Order of 23 June 2011 which restores the 25-hour educational schedule for staff members and workers who teach the teachings of primary and child education and special education, is prior to the publication of the Royal Decree of 2012, of 20 April, of urgent measures to rationalise public spending in the field of education. Therefore, it is not based on the application of the real decree of 2012, since, as it stands out in the preamble of the order itself, it responds to the years of experience accumulated in the application of the 21 hour lecture set in 2007. And by re-establishing the 25-hour hours for primary and childhood teachers, the Education Council, as you said, kept the job catalogues resulting from the June 8, 2007, agreement of the Bipartite catalogue. Asemade, spending from 21 to 25 hours of schooling in children and primary school meant a considerable increase in teaching hours in schools in the academic course 2011-2012, in the full economic crisis. You mean there were more hours to pay attention to the student. The situation therefore began with the Order of 23 June 2011, which in Article 4 also established that the educational time of staff members who teach secondary education was 18 hours, but which could reach 20 hours if the needs of the centre so required were to be exacted by the teachers available. In order to implement the Royal Decree of 20 April 2012, the Council gave the Order of 4 June 2012, which establishes a teaching time of 20 hours — in particular, the set time is 37 hours and measures, of which 30 would be devoted to the activities of the centre with its presence, 23 fixed hours and 20 hours of lecture. In this context, the Law of 2019, of 7 March, of improving the conditions for the performance of teaching in the field of non-university education, is limited to allowing public administrations with educational competences to establish in their area the educational part of the weekly teaching day. And, more importantly, they only make one recommendation, as your question might well be raised: on an ordinary basis, the educational part of the teaching work day can be a maximum of 23 hours in children's education centres and a maximum of 18 in the schools of the rest of the teaching. It's obvious that such a measure requires funding to support it, curiously something you didn't touch. And it is that in the final provision, when it speaks of the application, this law says that the financing of the recommended measure is postponed by the central government to an indeterminate future. In particular, it says: "In order to implement the provisions contained in this law by educational administrations, the General Administration of the State will establish an adequate and sufficient funding framework." Mr Álvarez, it seems that the most reasonable thing is to wait for the General Administration of the State to establish that adequate and sufficient funding framework provided for by law. It will then be when the Board is in a position to take, if necessary, the measures which, depending on the economic approach, result in. Therefore, see the single article.2, but also the first final layout — application — as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u242	Thank you, Mrs. Pomar. On the replica round, Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u243	Thank you again, Madam President. Let's see, Counselor, you started your answer in such a way that I thought I would never end up answering me, which, in the middle, did in the end. But, well, you talked about the quality of the education system, you talked about the dropout rate. And I want to remind you that, in 2008, Galicia's dropout rate was already below the average of the state. I say it if you want to contrast your data and not be attributed exclusively to the improvement of that rate, of which I particularly congratulate, and I believe that like the whole society. It's not a matter, fortunately, exclusive to Galicia. It's a matter of improvement throughout the state. And you told me things that I... I don't know, of course, the problem with these interpelerations is that you don't know what you're going to say. But if you review, and your advisers, what you said, repeated many of the things I said in my first intervention. As is logical, we speak from the normative framework and therefore necessarily have to refer to it. But you've changed the debate, and you say no changes have been made. How come no changes have been made? Changes have been adopted twice. The first -- and I've already said it -- before the publication of the royal decree law of the year 2012, when teachers' hours were increased to 25 hours a week. And I ask: if you were in the Government since 2009, did you take two years to realize that there were dysfunctions in the operation of the centers because there were moments when the teachers coincided as a result that they didn't have to complete the 25 hours a week, which is the time that the students have — periods of leisure included —? Did it take two years to figure it out, and that's a justification for that change in downtown time? Frankly, I don't think so. And I see myself in the sad obligation to correct it, because in high school you made a mistake, or they made you make a mistake, in interpreting the regulations. Look, in the earlier secondary hours regulations, reaching 20 weekly sessions was something extraordinary and depending on the needs of the centres; i.e., the hours of high school teachers were, in general, at 18 school sessions, not in 20. You can get to 20, it's true. What's the difference? That now 20 is the minimum number, the standard number; therefore, of course they have made changes, changes that were supported by that real decree law of the year 2012. So, I repeat, I think you're wrong. Please repeat that argumental line, because it is not true what you said. And you talked about this new law and that supposed lack of loyalty of the State Government when, of course, it leaves the criterion of autonomous administrations to reduce schedules and put high school hours into 18, and it recommends, of course, primary ones, generally in 23. So you can't argue that it's a matter of financing, when I take this kid out again. That is, if you plan, in 2017, 30,489 teachers and then there are 29,389, there are 1,100 fewer who stand — I repeat — their own budgets. [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez shows a chart from the panel of speakers.]] So the Board already has at least at the time of tabling budgets in this Parliament the funding needed to have that number of teachers; not to recover the 1,400 difference from 2010 until this year, but to recover 1,100, which is the difference between budget and reality. And the same thing happens again in 2018, with 29,406 non-university teachers in the Welsh educational system and 30,494 budgeted, i.e. 1,088 plus 1,088 difference. And 1,100 or 1,088, I don't care if it's different every year, means that the argument that it's necessary for the State to come up with the necessary funding is not worth it. It's not good because, one out of two, you say we're going to have 30,000 teachers -- or 30,500 -- because it's a very round figure to say we don't reduce the number of teachers, but the truth is, year after year, the number of teachers is about 29,400, that's the reality. So you cheat on the lonely, the right ones. And you have the right frame. The different things are that you don't want to change the hours of the teaching staff in this autonomous community, which I understand is what you're answering me in this interview. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u244	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Closing of the inquiry by the Education, University and Vocational Training Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u245	Thank you, President. In fact, in 2009 Galicia may have been at the lowest dropout rates. In any case, what is true is that 1 out of every 4 students dropped out of education, so I don't know if we can assume 25.8% dropout in Galicia's education system in 2009. In any case, Mr Álvarez, in the coming years — or it seems — the Socialist Party will have responsibilities in front of the central government, and will therefore have to make educational decisions for the future of the new generations. The Education Council has always exercised its powers. I did not speak at any time of disloyalty, I spoke of institutional loyalty by our band, and by the governments of the state, and of co-responsibility also in defending the interests of the Welsh educational community. We have always done so, regardless of the party that ruled the state, and we will continue to do so. We expect the same attitude from the next, from now on to being named, Central Government. Of course, there are many of the challenges of education in Spain and many of the challenges of education in Galicia. And to deal with them we must make realistic proposals and executable proposals that allow a model that responds to 21st-century society and, of course, that are supported by economic resources that come in time and in form to each and every one of the communities. We have a new political scenario, or so it seems. The socialist government will be responsible, or it will be what invites us to do things that we then have to pay in the autonomous communities. That's the reflection it's about to make right now, since in recent months Pedro Sánchez's government has not done it. But now you have a new chance. They have committed themselves to their electoral programme — and I read literally — to gradually increase public resources for scholarship education to put Spain on average in the countries around us. And we're talking about 5% of GDP. We hope that they will comply and allow the educational policies of self-government to be implemented. I insist that it is important that any educational reform is really useful for education throughout the State, for what we all need to hear, and especially communities, in order to provide adequate funding. In recent years there has been an important work in Congress, an important work in the Senate, to reach common points and renew education in Spain. Since Galicia we offer a differentiated educational model, which can serve as a reference, since the educational results are positive, and one example is that early school dropout rate. Today we're talking about the teacher. Without a doubt, these professionals are fundamental to ever-changing education. In Galicia we had to ask teachers for an effort in times of crisis, but we also bet on them. We have reached an agreement with the unions, and since this course, the Greek teachers have improved their salary. We have been making public job offers for years, which are used to stabilize public employment in the education sector and to reduce the already low rate of interinternity in Galicia. And we bet on the continuing training of teachers, the competence of the Council itself, in which we empower the learning of foreign languages, the acquisition of scientific-technical competences, equality and co-education, as well as the inclusion and vocational and professional guidance. We hope that the new Central Government, which emerged from the 28th of April elections — which we have already congratulated on in this House — will make a firm proposal to address a fundamental issue for education in Spain, but also for education and education in Galicia. It would be good if, once and for all, there were a new definition of access to the teaching role and improvements in the initial training of the teacher, promise of the election program of this 2019: "We will reorient and strengthen teaching training, access to profession, research, knowledge of new pedagogical models, which must count on the social recognition that the teacher deserves, recovering and improving his working conditions." Without a doubt, this would be an important contribution to the improvement of education and training of citizens of Galicia, as well as of the rest of the state. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u246	Thank you, Counselor. We continue with the fifth item on the agenda, questions to the Government. Question by Mr Jacobo Moreira Ferro and nine other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the realization by the councils of Ferrol and Pontevedra of the procedures necessary for the implementation of urban transport to which they are obliged
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u247	Mr. Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u248	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. On 23 April 1985 it is known that it is the date on which the Law of Local Plans came into force, and this law establishes the obligation of the municipalities of more than 50,000 inhabitants to provide the public service of urban public transport of travellers. Thirty-four years have passed and this obligation, which is also reproduced in the Law of Local Administration of Galicia, is being breached by two cities in Galicia, the city of Ferrol and the city of Pontevedra, the municipalities of Ferrol and Pontevedra, and, more specifically, the municipal governments of Ferrol and Pontevedra. Compared to other cities in Galicia, we see Ourense spending 6.9 million euros on urban transport; Lugo, 2.2 million euros; Santiago, 5 million; La Coruña, 9 million; Vigo, 14.7 million. Ferrol, against these figures, allocates EUR 280,000, the same amount that was devoted to the years of the economic crisis; and Pontevedra allocates EUR 71,000 per year. This is the importance these two municipal governments give to public transport. It is true that there is a difference between the two municipalities, because the Ferrol Town Hall is a member of the Galician Metropolitan Transport Plan, which directly benefits a total of 166,723 inhabitants, and also benefits an area of 11 municipalities, including the Ferrol Town Hall. It has been found that in 2017 there has been a growth in the number of trips around 2%. This is, therefore, a positive development. The Pontevedra Town Hall is not in the same situation, because the Pontevedra Town Hall has not even joined nor has it shown its willingness to join the Metropolitan Transport Plan. This is damaging the neighborhoods of Pontevedra and the whole region, of municipalities in the metropolitan area, for transport purposes in Pontevedra. And this is preventing neighbours of this region from benefiting from the 100 per cent bonus of transhipments, from additional discounts to regular users, from discounts to large families, or from, for example, allowing children under 19 to travel free of charge in this public transport. Last November 20th in this plenary session, in this House, an agreement was adopted to urge these municipalities to carry out the procedures necessary to implement as quickly as possible this urban transport to which they are obliged. Madam Counsellor, the question we want to ask, since this was adopted on 20 November and we are now ending the month of April, is whether this agreement of the Galician Parliament has been complied with by the councils of Ferrol and Pontevedra. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u249	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. Response from the Infrastructure & Mobility Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u250	Thank you, President. Your Honor, you know that all public road passenger concessions expire this same year, and that's why since the Galician Union we are making a very important effort to ensure that the Greeks have a public transport tailored to their needs, a useful public transport, a sustainable public transport, a public transport which is also economically viable and, therefore, has a future. In order to shield the legal certainty of contracting the concessions and to avoid prejudice to tenderers, we call for the suspension of that tender period, a temporary and provisional suspension, before the announced but not submitted appeal, of certain transport undertakings, so that the legal correction is clear and concrete. Public transport is a citizen's right, and public transport, therefore, is a duty of public administration to put it to the service of citizens, of the Greeks and of the Greeks. And that's how we understand it from the Galician Union. That's how we understand it from the Galician Union, and so all the administrations must understand it. And it must be a responsibility also assumed by the other administrations. All the municipalities of more than 50,000 inhabitants have a legal obligation to implement urban public transport, as the Law says on the basis of local regimes. And the fact is that we see the Council of Pontevedra and the Council of Ferrol renounce that legal obligation to which the Law of Local Regime requires. We've warned him since the Galician Union, and we've insisted that they have to deploy this urban transport to their neighbours. It's time for them to equip the neighbours of Pontevedra and the neighbours of Ferrol with quality urban transport. The time has come this year 2019. We've already warned that the lines were expiring throughout Galicia. It's time for them to design and implement this urban transport in Pontevedra and Ferrol. We have committed ourselves to this inexcusable obligation of the towns of Ferrol and Pontevedra to implement urban transport. In this House, an agreement has been approved and we have taken advantage of to refer this documentation to the municipalities of Pontevedra and Ferrol, and to offer our collaboration to implement urban transport in Pontevedra and Ferrol, even offering the drafting of the preliminary projects of exploitation. Neither of the two municipalities — nor Ferrol nor Pontevedra — decided to implement urban transport, renounced that legal obligation of urban transport. And the Galician Union took on this job because we don't want Ferrol or Pontevedra to be deprived of public transport. Again it will be the Union that makes urban transport possible, and of course we will charge that cost for the service we perform. The councils of Ferrol and Pontevedra, therefore, refuse to comply with legality, refuse to have a comparative injury. No one understands that, for example, Monforte and Artexo have an urban transport and that Pontevedra and Ferrol do not have an urban transport. Therefore, Pontevedra and Ferrol do not, of course, have in their priorities to bet on urban public transport in their municipalities. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u251	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Moreira's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u252	Thank you, Counselor. From the Galician People's Parliamentary Group we regret that the councils of Ferrol and Pontevedra are in breach of an agreement adopted in this Galician Parliament. We also regret that law enforcement is in breach of law. And especially we regret that the neighbours of Ferrol and Pontevedra are deprived by their municipal governments of a right to which they have access, which is the right to public transport, which we consider inconceivable in the century in which we live. I think these mayors will have to explain to their neighbors why they deny them the right to have a public transport, the right that children under 19 can travel free of charge on the bus, like the rest of Galician cities. That they force the situation in such a way that it has to be the Union that does the work for them, of course it is inconceivable. Ladies and gentlemen, in the case of Pontevedra we are seeing that they are full of contradictions, because, first of all, they have always denied themselves for many years to recognize that this was an obligation of the councils of more than 50,000 inhabitants. Then, later, when it was evident that the law said what it said, they began to say yes, that they were preparing a transport plan for the countryside. Then they said their competition was just urban transport. So I wonder why they're preparing a transport plan for rural areas if they recognize themselves or say that their competition is just urban transport. I think we're in a situation where this municipal government in Pontevedra doesn't take public transport seriously. What we want to ask you now on this second shift, Counsellor, is to know what you're going to do to implement that transport, which you're thinking of introducing into transport to Ferrol and Pontevedra. The use of the local compensation fund seems logical and understandable, since each one must fulfil his or her competences. Counsellor, the neighbours of Pontevedra and Ferrol wonder why paying the same or more taxes that other cities of Galicia have no right to the transport service they have in other cities of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u253	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. Question is closed by the Infrastructure & Mobility Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u254	Thank you, President. From the German Government we will not allow the neighbours of Pontevedra and Ferrol to be without urban transport — the truth hurts — by the inaction of the municipal governments. [[Murmurs.]] At Junta we designed a planning, thinking, therefore, in those neighbours, that they are not without transport, even though the municipalities of Pontevedra and Ferrol, I insist, had refused to provide that service. New contracts introduce improvements, important improvements. For example, in the county of Ferrol, we're responding to this historic demand to resolve the naval hospital stop and improve that connection from the Naval Hospital to the center of Ferrol. In Pontevedra, for example, the neighbors of Alba will have better services, more competitive services, more tailored to their needs. And at the Galician Junta, I insist, we design this interurban public transport including these new urban services that renounce the Pontevedra Town Hall and the Ferrol Town Hall, and of course we reserve the right to impact that over cost, something, of course, completely logical. If the counties of Ferrol and Pontevedra didn't want to pay, they had it very easy: they put, they implanted, their urban transport, which they renounced. I don't think anyone would understand that the Council of Galicia had given up its competences in health and education, and it's not understood that the municipalities of Pontevedra and Ferrol renounce their legal obligation and their competences in urban transport. And the truth hurts. The Galician Union will invest 700,000 euros a year in Pontevedra and 1.2 million euros a year in Ferrol. Therefore, it is time for the councils of Ferrol and Pontevedra to invest something in urban public transport. Of the 1.9 million trips per year in Ferrol, 60% are within the territory of Ferrol, and of the 1 million trips planned per year in Pontevedra Town Hall, 300,000 are within the area of Pontevedra Town Hall. And look, for example, the Lugo Town Hall — similar to Pontevedra City Hall — invests more than 2 million euros in public transport; and the Pontevedra Town Hall, 71,000 euros. I think the figures say everything. In the case of Pontevedra there is no implication for public transport. I think it's obvious, much more obvious than in the Ferrol Town Hall. It's a blockade on metropolitan transport, of course, that prevents this social transport plan from being implemented and that minors under the age of 19 can use the metropolitan card. Zero is the same as Pontevedra's involvement in public transport, neither works nor fulfills his legal obligation. The most comfortable thing, of course, is to do nothing, which is what the Pontevedra Town Hall does. What we're looking at is that he claimed he didn't have any competences; and then he claimed that he pulled out a couple of leaves from the year 2015 to say he was doing something. A disincentive! Ferrol and Pontevedra are therefore in breach of the law. But we will not allow the neighbours of Ferrol and Pontevedra to be without public transport. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u255	Thank you, Counselor. Question by D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the actions planned by the Government of Greece regarding the extension of the grant granted to Cence in Lourizán, in the river Pontevedra
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u256	Good afternoon. How bad is the PP in Pontevedra and Ferrol to have to come here to oppose the municipal government! How bad they are, gentlemen of the People's Party! [[Applause]] And I would like to point out to the advisor, who is already on his way, that he does not worry because the Council of Pontevedra does have a transport plan, a transport plan on demand, an advanced transport plan, and not a transport plan like what the Board has, which has been paralysed by the administrative tribunal, has not been paralyzed by the Board of Galicia, has been paralysed by a public procurement court. Look, Counselor, today you have a great opportunity to condemn the campaign of Ence and his union friend with attacks on the premises of democratic political parties, with threats to the BNG Carme da Silva's companion. We know that you have direct threads with the company, even have representatives on the board of directors, and we want to tell you quite loud and clear here that we will not be intimidated, that they will not frighten us, that, by many coercion and intimidation and threats, we will continue to defend above all the public interest and the future of the Pontevedra River. And you've shown over the past ten years that I'm not trustworthy. You lied, you cheated systematically; firstly, when Mr. President of the Board said in Pontevedra that Ence could not stay in the river, that he would not say one thing and do the opposite; and then you voted here and unanimously voted an agreement to get Ence out of the river and to complete the productive cycle. You then passed the territorial management guidelines and the POL, which provide for the factory to leave its place in Lourizán. And then, because of pressure from large business groups, what you did was you changed the Law from back to favor the Ence and to make it easier to stay in the river. He was granted a manifestly illegal extension. Firstly, because it was granted by a government in office and was granted for 115 years. And now, of course, it's proved to be illegal. You've changed your position on corporate taxation, Ibex taxation and rotational doors, you're a salesman, you're a salesman, you're a salesman. And you recently said a phrase that can go through the annals of humor, that Ence does not pollute the laugh. Call me a trick! That Ence doesn't pollute the laugh. In fact, it pollutes the river and the atmosphere, and the company has been convicted of continuing economic crime. And the worst contamination of Ence, Counselor, is not that of the smells, of the bad smells and of the spills of heavy metals, is the pollution of democracy. That's the worst contamination of Ence. You guys campaigned...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u257	Mr Bará, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u258	Well, we want you to tell us if they're actually going to carry out those agreements that were adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u259	Thank you. Response from the Environmental, Territorial and Living Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u260	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, Mr. Bará, I'll tell you as a woman that nobody sells me or buys me. To buy me or sell me someone, and especially you, I would have to be born again. [[Applause]] But it turns out that's not gonna be like that. [[Murmurs.]] Secondly, I'll tell you who's on the side of the Union of Galicia: on the side of legality, no more or less; neither on the side of Ence nor on the side of any other industry. Whether or not it's up to you? I have to tell you it's done right now. We're on the side of legality, and that's what keeps us fighting for companies in Galicia. So we're talking about a company that counts with a legal concession -- you say it's illegal, and you'll have to prove it -- and that it meets the environmental parameters. I'll repeat it again, meet the environmental parameters. The truth is, you like to hear it or you don't like it. I will tell you how many times it takes: we are strict — rigorous with the environmental demands marked by legislation — and the Union will continue to demand strict compliance with these parameters. In fact, last year we checked their integrated environmental authorization. By the way, Mr Bará, was granted in 2008. Why, Mr. Bará? For the Bipartite. And we did this to adapt it to the new emission values set by the European Union and to the stricter discharge parameters. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Lourizán's factory is subject to the provision of public information on compliance with these parameters and to a strict inspection regime. And do you know who does these inspections? The technicians. And you know it's the technicians? Officials. And you know that these officials ruled when you ruled, and they rule within their scope when we are ruling now. And they are independent, Mr Bará. To say otherwise is supposed to bring those officials in. Since the legal implementation of this system in 2003, Ence has been the subject of three comprehensive inspections, carried out in 2015, 2016 and 2018, which involve a genuine environmental audit. They're inspections that have equipped the complete check of all the conditions set by the integrated environmental authorisation, always resulting in total compliance. That's what I have to say because I'm transferred to the technicians, because it's written and because to say the opposite is supposed to lie. In addition, in 2019 a new inspection is planned, which you did not do during the years you ruled. And they ruled for almost four years at Galician Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u261	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Bará's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u262	Yes, I heard her talk and you looked like the head of the company of Ence. I suppose later, when you leave the Council, you can even hire it in the company's press office, because you really are doing merit. And if not, you'll always have a position on the board of directors, because there's already been your predecessors in the same council that they've already paid 120.00 euros a year on the board of directors of Ence. Look, you guys in the year 2012, in the worst times of the crisis, when there was 27% unemployment in Pontevedra, they argued that Ence had to abandon its current placement. You are committed to tricking, lying, playing with the workers and the jobs. And the Government in 2008 did approve an integrated environmental authorisation because the company had granted until 2018, logically. Look, you cheat and lie, for example, about jobs. They're talking about over 500 jobs, over 5,000 jobs across Galicia, over 80,000 people living in Ence. So look, we told you that the laugh is a factory, a factory of work, of wealth that can give many more jobs, and that the Greek mountain can do much more work than the Ence gives and with more quality and assurances of the future. And, of course, what we're telling you is that we don't bring up those lies, those manipulations, those blackmails and those pressures. I'm still waiting, Counselor, to answer what I told you in the first intervention. Do you condemn the mob campaign carried out by Ence and his friend union? Condemned? Do you condemn the threats to our concierge Carme da Silva? Do they condemn the attacks? Counsellor, the Ence may have a lot of money, the Ence pays politicians service, the Ence pays grateful stomachs. But Pontevedra does not pay and does not vote traitors.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u263	Thank you, Mr Bará. The closing round of the Environmental, Territorial and Living Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u264	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Again, I come here to answer about legality, I come here to answer whether it meets or does not meet, whether it is fulfilling the Council of Galicia and if it is fulfilling a company called Ence. But I could come to answer about the thousands of companies that might be in the same situation as Ence, and of course I would answer you. So, if the question is, is it legal what's doing Ence?, the answer I have to give you is that, according to the law, of course it's legal. Is it legal what you're doing to Junta? I have to answer that it's clear that it's legal. But if you tell me if it's legal what Bipartite did in 2008, I'll have to tell you that it's also legal what Bipartite did during that period, and in particular in 2008. And from there, here, with the jobs, some play. And they think they're very worried, they're worried. Do you think it makes sense to make a change through the back door of the law to legally dress up a decision of the State, which is to deal with Ence? Does that sound normal to you? That's the answer, what we have to tell the citizen. [[Strong murmurers.]] We're saying no, and therefore we made the relevant allegations. If you ask me what the water quality of Pontevedra's creek is, you should know it. But they should also know that in 2008, an authorization for the discharge of waste water was included for the Ence, and that's what you did. I don't know if you've been informed or you don't know. [[Murmurs.]] Well, it's true that these waters are previously treated in an existing purification system in the company. But, Mr Bará, it was before and it is now, with the only difference that we now demand much more than you have been demanding, with which you do not deceive people. We don't cheat on the employees of Ence or cheat on the Ence, we don't cheat on you and we don't cheat on citizenship in general. Therefore, the real responsibility for the situation of the river, Mr Bará, is that of those who hinder the viable and possible alternatives — and there are solutions for improving the quality of the waters, i.e. collectors and debuggers — and those who do not exercise their powers. And do you know who the skills are? The Town Hall exclusively. And, you know what the Galician Union does? Put solutions on the table. And you know what those solutions are? Well, the Praceres debugger, for example. That's the reality, which you're the ones who have to say if you're in favor of the Ence, and not of Ence, but of the thousands of companies and industries that are installed in...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u265	Thank you, Counselor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u266	...public maritime-terrestrial domain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u267	Thank you. Question by Mr José Luís Rivas Cruz and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in the face of the latest judicial developments in the area of energy and mines in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u268	Mr. Rivas Cruz has the floor. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u269	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counsellor, in all the interventions in which BNG reported to you the landfilling mining projects, the unfavorable wind farms, the re-use of quarryes, where environmental aggression was manifest and the proposal of them did not entail benefits or advantages to the population, you always wanted to place our arguments and our positions in illegality. Of course, you wanted to show up like the mouthpieces of law enforcement. What law? What do you think Mr. Tahoces is doing? Because Corcoesto's was manipulated, denying transparency and trapping with reports. Who was the Council's defender right now? Has the court verdict been against the law? Article 9, 30 days of delay in providing the required information. Well, as you well know, with me, for at least a year and a half and with conditions. What are we talking about? Well, reports about mining projects in Touro and San Fins. The general address closed to which and how, denying due transparency on any subject, stealing the required information by law, Counselor, by law. San Fins, Lousame, a mine to reopen two rafts of decantation outside the project. They are not known to the owner, and the Counsellor laughs at his counselor's face; 1,300,000 cubic metres of acidic water with cadmium and other heavy metals to pour into the Noia stream, a laugh with exceptional seafood banks, the capital of the crunch. Well, you see, there's a water discharge permit that is undeclared to the river and activity is allowed without the preceptive environmental impact study. And who is due to these and other frequent anomalies? The Prosecutor's office and those affected generally point to a director general and a name, Mr. Tahoces. And we, who also pointed it out to you for their loud smiles and complicit silences, asked him: Will Mr. Tahoces cease? And what are you going to do with yourself? Because this isn't from now on, it's from old age. There's suspicions and shared certainty, there's complicity in silence to all these practices that would need round positions that you didn't have or have. You can't get out of where you can't. We will not believe that you ignored these practices reported here and there again and again by the BNG, and not only. It would be interesting to know how much these practices help in the exercise of that peculiar democracy that you practice and more in the work of convincing reticents. Anyway, do you have any plans to wash the Government's face? And, above all, the million question: when will Mr. Tahoces cease?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u270	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u271	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Rivas, you, as always, speaking of this Galicia in black, which is what you like, talking of esplation, talking of environmental aggression, of complicity. Honestly, Mr. Rivas, it's inappropriate; it's inappropriate that you come here to try to transfer doubts about the government's action, doubts about the officials... doubt about the administration itself. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You know, because we've moved it like this, that the government will collaborate with all the research being carried out in the Noia Court, and, of course, we'll answer all the questions. What we would thank you for is that you left aside parallel judgments and arbitrary verdicts, which is what you came to do here this afternoon. We have the conviction that the Administration has acted according to what marks the law, and that's why we're going to believe it. And, as I told Mr. Sánchez, the Administration will act in accordance with the law, as it has been done in each project, in every performance it is carrying out in the mining. But let me ask you a question. If you are convinced of the incompatibility of the exploitation, which is what you want to move here, why did the two-party government authorize the transmission of San Fins' mine rights in 2008? Do you have an answer? Let me ask you another question. If you are convinced of the incompatibility of the exploitation, why did the two-party government grant you three aid in 2008 for its operation — three aid of more than 600,000 euros —? I'd like to, Mr. Rivas, to try to explain it. We don't have any kind of inconvenience because we, Mr. Rivas, unlike you, trust the decisions that are made in the administration, which are always in accordance with the applicable legality. But it seems to me, Mr. Rivas, that the problem is not this government; the problem is yours and the problem is that of BNG. For you, Mr. Rivas, when you rule, everything is fine; and when you don't govern, everything is wrong. [[Murmurs.]] And that's a different measuring rod. We will continue to work, defending the mining activity, in the face of their permanent persecution against the workers and against the administration itself. We'll continue to defend this mining. I honestly believe that both the workers and the administration itself and the public officials themselves deserve another deal. Leave aside that permanent contempt that they have for mining in our country. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u272	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Rivas' reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u273	Counsellor, it is the Prosecutor's Office in this case that questions are raised, and it also lays them down on a Mr. Director General who is accused of an alleged crime of environmental prevarication, of an absence of environmental impact study, of a dumping of contaminated water, of a lack of control, of a default of sanctions, for not knowing anything about a mineral raft. [[Applause]] I asked and I was told that I didn't know who they were — a five-hectare, accumulated with toxic sludges. Look, it was the Life and Ría platform and more Amador, who I have to name him, our concierge in Lousame, who had to leave because they harassed him, because he was thrown out of there, because he couldn't afford to defend the croque and defend the laugh of Girl. Do you understand? Because you're always there where there's business, and they're for what they're for. Tell me about Gürtel, tell me about all those practices I used to tell you. But, above all, Counselor, you told me the case: what are you going to do with Mr. Tahoces? Apart from that legality that they always "defense" — between quotes — what will they do with Mr. Tahoces? And, above all, I don't take any responsibility for myself or BNG, because before the Bipartite there was life too. And after the Bipartite, you came to bother your life, that's true.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u274	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Close this question by the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u275	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Rivas, I'm sorry you're against mining, just like they're against industry and they're against employment in our country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u276	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u277	We will continue to act as we have so far...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u278	Quiet...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u279	...by complying with the law — a law that you have approved — and of course, by acting with complete transparency; and, in this case, logically, by transferring all the actions and believing that we act according to the law. You tell me about the Life and Ría or Minaria platform, curious! And you tell me about transparency. When you talk to me about these issues, you should know how certain kinds of platforms are trying to transfer to different institutions, also to European institutions, the actions of this government. I believe that I should also move here what the European Commission says about these types of actions. And I believe that I should share with all the Greeks and in this Parliament as the European Commission has said that it has not found sufficient evidence that it is no generalized practice or a systematic violation of the EU's legislation, as you are trying to move permanently in this Parliament, in the European Commission and where you want to destabilize mining, destabilize the administration and destabilize the work of miners in our country. I think you should leave aside the disqualifications that you move from the administration's performance, and we, as I say, will continue to work. And I'd like to know why you, who defend all kinds of platforms, don't you defend the Sustainable Mining Platform? What did the Sustainable Mining Platform do to them? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It turns out that neither now... Oh, now it's not sustainable. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u280	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u281	Now it's not sustainable. Sustainability has BNG, no doubt, Mr. Rivas. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I regret this myopia from an industrial point of view, from the point of view of employment, which is closing companies in Galicia with its conviviality and which, unfortunately... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u282	Quiet, the counsellor is in turn.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u283	...it's leading to a situation of not returning to companies like Ence and mining itself. I don't think workers and Galicia deserve the Galego Nationalist Block talking about industry and talking about employment. Your Honor, we, when we had to say no, said no. We told Corcoesto not to. And in Touro, if they don't do the administrative procedures, we won't say either. We will continue to apply the law, which is our obligation and which is our responsibility. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u284	Thank you, Counselor. [[Mr. Rivas Cruz asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Rivas, what do you want the word for? Quietly... please, for a moment, for a moment. [[Strong murmurers.]] What do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u285	I don't know what article I'm referring to, Mr. President, but I've come here to ask a question and nothing of the question has been answered. Nothing at all! [[Strong murmurers.]] Nothing, Mr. President. Reread the question. [[Applause]] You run away from answering...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u286	No, no... silence, silence. Quiet, I'm not going in, as you'll understand... No, I'm sorry, I'll give you an explanation. I'll give you an explanation. [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I am not able to enter into what he answers or does not answer the Government; I am able to moderate this debate. The debate was tough. You made an intervention precisely unkind and the counselor answered you. What you can't have is a crystal jaw. We need to be able to listen and pick up. Yeah, that's right, huh! [[Strong murmurers.]] This is Parliament. [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, no... silence! [[Strong murmurers.]] I'm not going in on it. It's over. Next question, next question... [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Rivas, that's it. It's over. Next question. Question by Ms Noela Blanco Rodríguez and three other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia to ensure the maintenance of the jobs of the United States company in the municipality of San Cibrao das Viñas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u287	Whenever you want, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u288	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Counsellor, the United States telemarketing company is located in Galician Technology Park, in the municipality of San Cibrao das Viñas, in Ourense, and currently employs 131 people, 75% of whom are women. This company has been doing this service for the last ten years to a single customer, to the Naturgy company. This one, telemarketing, is a sector characterized by feminization, low wages, stressful, unstable and monotonous work, and practically with no capacity for internal promotion. I say low wages because, besides, they don't even have a full day, as is usually common in the case of almost all workers, but the maximum day is 37 hours and only 6% of the staff has that maximum of 37; the rest, less than 25 hours a week. I mean, 94% of the workers in this company earn around 500 euros a month, with a lot of difficulties in terms of power, because of their working hours, compatibility with other partial jobs. We really know, through the company committee itself that accompanies us today — that I want to thank you again for being here and offering them also the support of the PSdeG again — that the company might be starting a relocation process, after opening a platform on Reus that receives the same calls as the one from Ourense and for which, in addition, curiously in Reus, it is positively valued for hiring the fact of knowing and speaking in Greek. This is in addition to the fact that United States has already had problems in 2013 — in fact, it has suffered from an ERTE — and that it is attempting to empty the workload of this platform in Ourense with the loss of more than 30,000 calls from October to March. The PSdeG and also the committee themselves believe that they are a perfect crop broth that the company is preparing for this relocation; that's why the workers, despite having low wages and being making a huge effort, have been unemployed over the past month to freeze what would not only be a hard varapau for these 131 families, but also for a very punished province where we have the lowest rate of activity throughout Spain and in the last quarter they have been lost, according to official data, Counsellor, more than 25 jobs a day. Today what we want to ask you, in the face of this situation and in the face of the gravity of the facts, we believe that they will be consolidated, what will the Government of Greece do to stop what could be a job indentation and, of course, to repeat it, a hard sweep not only for San Cibrao das Viñas and for Ourense — for the city — but for all the surrounding municipalities. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u289	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u290	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Blanco, first of all, I would like to thank the willingness of both the United States Business Committee and the workers of this company who work on this platform, who have requested the intervention of the Galician Union and who are at all times having a fluid dialogue, which I personally thank them; and I would send it to the workers who accompany us today. I would also like to thank the goodwill of the company itself, with which we are working, and we are identifying how to look for a solution. A solution that necessarily passes by burden of work, and therefore in that context it is important to have such a fluid dialogue between all sides, both with the Committee of Enterprise and with the workers as well as with the company itself. An open dialogue that we will continue to develop, because we understand that it is the only possible way to find a solution to the future. Logically, the Government continues to carry out all the actions that are of our competence. So, as a labour authority, we are at all times watching for the fulfilment of workers' rights through the Labour Inspectorate itself, and also, as an administration, we are working — as I say — with the company and with the workers themselves and identifying those possible solutions. In addition, we are fulfilling the agreement adopted a month ago in this parliament in relation to the telemarketing sector, which we are also in contact with through its national partnership. And, of course, we will accept the agreement adopted this morning, which includes, among other measures, the establishment of a work table and also the study on the situation. I, of his account, only hope that he will be supported by the Socialist Government of Pedro Sánchez. Because I remind you that the collective agreement that applies to telemarketing companies is state-owned and therefore it is up to the Ministry of Labour to monitor them. I also remind you that the provision of sufficient resources to develop the work of the Labour Inspectorate depends on the Ministry itself, and I remind you that all the changes you are asking for at the level of work, public procurement and competition control are also state-owned. So we agreed on the importance of working on the development of this sector, but I would ask you to do realism and, therefore, to work and support the Council of Galicia in developing its competences and, logically, to work together so that the Government will also develop its competences and respond to this sector and to the workers and workers of the United States. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u291	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u292	Thank you, President. Don't worry, Counselor, we're not going to accept that ultraactivity of the collective agreements that you put into effect; we've already said so with that job reform. The truth — let me tell you, you have to face to come here now to talk about it. [[Applause]] Look, don't actually confuse the good disposition of the Business Committee with either resignation or submission, because they're still fighting. In fact, I'm telling you, they're here and you can go up and talk to them, if you want. We know that there is an agreement in this chamber, but it is precisely that we are asking — and we are going to keep asking and insisting on this issue — because you are not the first time that an agreement has been breached. They're starting to look like a lot like these little puppies who get in the back of the cars, who move their heads and say yes, but don't move from the place, Counselor. You're always saying, "Yes, we're going to negotiate, we're going to talk," and then it turns out that nothing happens and they keep closing companies and losing jobs. [[Laughter]] Of course, you say that the Galician Council is negotiating and talking; yes, through the General Employment Secretary, because you did not meet with the workers — as far as we know — I don't know if you met with the company. And this, of course, thanks to the mediation of the mayor of Ourense, ladies and gentlemen, who has so much weight not only in the city, but also in the Council of Galicia, who, when he asks for mediation, is not the adviser, but the Secretary General of Employment. Look, we want to go a little further: let's propose that the Autonomic Administration itself preach with the example and that you incorporate clauses in such a way that, in that contract, companies that have call services if you are obliged to have these centres in our autonomous community and that telephone attention is also available in Greek. But, above all, Mr. Counsellor, not only talking to the United States, but talking to the giant, talking to the great: talk to Naturgy, press, take off the phone and prevent the loss of these jobs.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u293	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco, your time is up. Close, economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u294	Mr. President. Mrs. Noa, it's a sarcasm you're moving here that Pedro Sánchez's government defends employment, a sarcasm! Meirama: Closed; On: Activate all the situation so that you cannot continue your activity...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u295	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u296	Alcohol: They promised a solution and you didn't transfer any kind of solution. I think, Mrs. Noa, that I should put aside the excuses. At this point, you, the Socialist Party, have the Official State Bulletin precisely to be able to guarantee all jobs in Galicia; just as Mrs Noa, Mrs Blanco, who also have the Official State Bulletin to introduce all the measures you are proposing here. [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr. Blanco Rodríguez: Mrs. Blanco!]] It's just funny if you tell me, after ten months they were in the government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u297	Silence! [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Well, you have to listen, too. No, but don't get me in there, please. [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] You asked and here there was silence; now you have to listen. Quiet. [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u298	It's funny that, after ten months... they've been in the government, Mrs. Blanco; ten months they've been in the government and ten months in which they haven't touched any measures in the telemarketing sector, none! Ten months in which they haven't touched the ultraactivity they now claim and ten months where they haven't put any kind of measure into public procurement to ensure exactly what you're asking for now. [[Murmurs.]] But who do you want to fool, Mrs. Blanco? [[Murmurs.]] Who's he trying to fool? Do you understand that we don't know how to read or write? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We don't know how to read the Official State Gazette? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's empty! A blank page, Mrs. Blanco, precisely for the telemarketing sector... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u299	Quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u300	...and for workers and workers in the United States, an empty page. They have a chance. The excuses are all over; therefore, they do not try to deceive the workers of the United States. All the measures you're proposing... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u301	Mrs. Vilan! Mrs. Vilan, call her in order. Please. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Silence! Please, this is... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u302	With all the measures you are proposing, they have the State Official Gazette to be able to transfer them, and they will actually have all our support to support the telemarketing sector... [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u303	Silence! Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo! Well, I'll stop the time. I don't want to call anyone else in order. In Parliament's mechanics we have to be able to listen too; it's not about interrupting. If they don't like the answer, they have two options. If you don't like the answers there are two options: ask again or leave the room. [[One honourable Member speaks words which are not perceived.]] But please, what you can't interrupt is the counselor. [[Murmurs.]] That's perfect, because I think it's all right. [[Murmurs.]] Continue, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u304	Mr. President. I am deeply sorry that the Socialist Party of Galicia does the same thing as the Socialist Party of Spain: that it gives its back to employment in Galicia. Anyway, ladies and gentlemen, we'll keep doing all the management, we'll keep working together with the workers in the United States to find a solution and we'll keep working with the company itself. [[Applause]] And as for Naturgy, who was also spoken here, they know that we have transferred our complete inconformity to her about the decision they made, and we hope she's working on a solution. We will continue — as I told you — by supporting the workers in their search for that solution, by supporting the company in their search for solutions, and, logically, also for the Government to take measures to promote the development of this sector, where the agreement is of a national nature. The surveillance is up to the Ministry and therefore all decisions that can be made, which will have the support of the Galician Union...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u305	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u306	...they also have a national responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u307	Thank you. Da Eva Solla Fernández, G.P. of En Marea, about the means available to the Galego Health Service to guarantee the rights of terminally ill people
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u308	Give a voice to Mrs. Solla's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u309	Good afternoon, Counselor. More than 600,000 people in our country live in poverty or at risk of social exclusion, and unfortunately they do not have the right to a decent life. Dr. Montes said that the right to death worthy is like the right to life worthy: a matter of common sense. Unfortunately, in our country people don't die well. Today we bring this issue here, in the heat of, of course, those unfortunate news and the arrest of that person, Angel Hernández, who had to act outside the law because there are parties that do not defend the right to a worthy death and therefore do not defend the right to euthanasia either. But in our country we have a valid standard of which I myself have been rapporteur, Law 5/2015, of June 26, of rights and guarantees of the dignity of terminally ill people, which is not yet being complied with. Just a few weeks ago, only a couple of weeks ago, in Commission Five, there was an appearance where the head of the Health Knowledge Agency appeared. We asked him about something of his competence, which are the bioethics committees and reports that would have to be issued on matters of dignified death and palliative care: I couldn't answer our question. Today we want to make it clear to us that Sergas has the means to guarantee the rights of terminally ill people. If one meets the legal text, it is quite evident that it is not being so, among other things because: "Article 11. Right of the patient to receive comprehensive palliative care and pain treatment. .. 4............................................................................ All health care and socio-health care facilities, whether public or private, must provide palliative care. At the same time, these care will be implemented in home care." We only have forty-four home-hospital care teams, without any kind of recourse in that sense. We also do not have sufficient means, Counsellor, in primary care, and again — as we did yesterday — we want to remind you here of the absence of staff — both nursing and medicine — enough to provide these care. We also don't have any other resources or sufficient means to do with palliative care units in our country. And I have to remind you of the situation at the Hospital de Verín: the workers, once again, are closed, denouncing the cut-off of services and the mobility of internal medicine professionals from one service to another. That way, you can't provide the right service. Today we asked him about this; he seems sensitive to us and we believe that you are not guaranteeing the right to die properly either in the housing or in the health facilities. I remind you that, within other things, the rule also understood the right to die in an individual room, something that you obviously are not fulfilling, the content of the closed beds and, of course, from private derivations. And to finish -- that I don't have time -- I want to move him to give us a balance...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u310	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u311	...if you're meeting the impossibility of hosting...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u312	Thank you, your time is up. [[Mrs. Solla Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Thank you. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u313	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. The truth is that this kind of sensitive themes are always used in election times; I don't know exactly what the exact function is, but they always use it. Above all, Mrs Solla, because you have just said so — even if you do not recognize it — there is a law, Law 5/2015, of June 26, which was unanimously approved in this parliament, of rights and guarantees for terminally ill people, which establishes what are the rights of people with palliative care needs in the terminal phase. We have been a model for other autonomous communities and many others that still have no regulations. I have to explain to you that it is the clinical faculty who, under their discretion, take the initiative to treat a patient, whether with oncoholic drugs or palliative treatments, or both. So it's a decision of clinical professionals, not politicians, and less in this electoral period. As far as pharmaceuticals are concerned, I have to tell you that all doctors who develop their activity in the Galician Health Service have at their disposal the oncoholic treatments they need for each patient, including the latest innovations in immunocologic therapies, as well as all the therapeutic arsenal used in palliative care of terminal patients: analgesics, antiemetics, hypnotics and sedatives. For these patients, we also have all kinds of nutritional supplements provided in our hospitals, dermatological therapies for radiotherapy or immobilization complications, maxistral formulas, effects and accessories. Therefore, drug-type needs are clearly covered. In order to be able to move forward, and in order to know the needs and expectations of professionals, family members and patients about palliative care in Galicia, we conducted a qualitative study with groups of patients in palliative care, family and health care personnel directly or indirectly involved in the care of these patients. The conception of palliative care is changing from a rigid and dichotomous model, healing versus caring, to a more dynamic and integral model, in which the potentially curative treatments are combined with those intended to improve the quality of life. Palliative care is the responsibility of the entire health network: primary care, hospital care and units of palliative care and home hospitalization, and not only of the specific devices of palliative care. Currently, all patients in need of palliative care are cared for according to their needs. For non-complex needs, patients will make use of conventional resources for both primary and hospital care. The professionals of the specific palliative care devices focus on patients with palliative care needs considered complex. In our autonomous community there is an extensive network of resources specific to palliative care in all hospitals in the Galician Health Service, which include both palliative care units...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u314	Thank you, Counselor. It's over. He's got another round later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u315	...as home care units. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u316	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u317	Counsellor, of course the law exists, I was rapporteur of that law and the president was in that statement. And truly, I'm proud to propose some of the amendments that came forward, such as the elimination of conscientious objection. I'd like to know if you're doing some sort of follow-up on the application of these articles that give patients rights and which, of course, limit anyone's ability to treat those who are entitled to this rule. You here did not really report the situation of the services. Of course, as far as home hospitalization is concerned, there are only forty-four active teams, and the experts are denouncing the scarce investment that makes there a difference between provinces and the rural ones as well. I believe that the debate on the cuts in primary care is already here, Mr. Almuña, which, therefore, prevents some of the articles of this rule from being complied with. I don't know if you brought it printed today; I did, and I could do a review -- I wouldn't give myself time -- to all the articles. But there is something quite important in the introduction of the rule, which says it is necessary "to equip all health professionals with the support, information and tools necessary to assume their role safely and reduce conflict" in this situation. Not only do you have support, but you do not have resources, human and material resources. How are you ensuring that people can have a room to die surrounded by their loved ones? They have a right, put it in the norm, and it's obvious that this isn't happening. You should realize here what they're doing and what they're going to do to meet the rule, because it's been three years — almost four years — of the adoption of this rule. I have to remind you that, just a few months later, the girl Andrea died, and we also discussed in this parliament the conditions under which she had to use the family to a judge in order to apply the rights contained in this rule. We asked not on electoral matters, Mr. Almuño; because we believe that it is the right of all people to live and die dignifiedly.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u318	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Close this question, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u319	Of course, Galicia is dying decently. Health and socio-sanitary services die decently and improve year by year. Of course, there is a total and absolute implication of the Galician Union. We adapt the composition of the Galician Committee on Palliative Care, an advisory and advisory body in this area, seeking to represent and involve health and socio-sanitary agents who relate not only to terminal patients and their families, but also to people with advanced and complex disease. We thus integrate the medical staff of nursing, internal medicine and social work; medical and primary care pharmaceuticals; medical professionals of hospital clinical psychology; medical staff of palliative care units; physicians of 0.61; Hado's nursing; physicians of oncology; pediatric physicians; neurology doctors, and a representative of the Social Policy Council. The aim of this commission is to promote patients' right to receive comprehensive palliative care according to their needs. Since the publication of the law—the Law on the Rights and Guarantees of the Sick—the hospitals of the Galician Health Service are adapting their palliative care units to the collection of this law. In our autonomous community there are currently seven palliative care units in large hospitals; in addition, in the Salnes Hospital, a four-bed unit was opened, integrated into the hospital unit. In the other hospitals, patients with palliative needs are enrolled in conventional hospitalization units, followed by professionals trained in palliative care. Of the 100 rooms for palliative care, eighty-eight are individual. Today, Galicia has forty-five home hospitalization teams; forty-five teams that we take, precisely, to rural areas, the last ones, Verín and Monforte. And we continue to grow in Ferrol, Coruña and other areas of Galicia. Over the past five years the number of Hado revenues has increased by twenty-eight percent: in 2018 the number of revenue has risen to 6,128 and the number of visits to 57,227. Currently, the Hado coverage for the population of Galicia is about 70 percent. Galicia has today's Hado unit in each of the fourteen hospitals of the Galician Health Service, and over these years more have been created in Hado units that provide quality home hospitalization care. We are one of the autonomous communities with more Hado units distributed throughout the territory. Therefore, the Galego Service continues to work in favour of the palliative care of the Greeks and Greeks who need it, through a development of the Welsh Palliative Care Plan. In your introduction to this question you speak of the commission of inquiry — by the way, where you did not want to be —. There he spoke of the Pharmacy chief of the Lugo Hospital, of the HULA, of the conditions and absolute compliance with the treatments that are assigned by the optional ones, and even of patients with a multi-million-euro drug investment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u320	Thank you, Counselor. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u321	Galicia's doing everything and it's going to be getting better these years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u322	Thank you. Question by Mr Julio Torrado Quintela and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the evaluation made by the Junta of Galicia in relation to the quality of primary care in the municipality of Lalín
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u323	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor, again. We're talking about primary care today in Lalin. You know and sure you know — probably much better than I do — the Lalin Health Center: an old health center, from the 1970s, where you can certainly make some arrangement — almost any patch — but that you can't face already being the reference health center of a population like Lalin; it has an impossible global arrangement. This is a debate that is not new, for many years you have been talking about the need to improve the infrastructure in Lalin; you will also know that debate. Look: "Lalín signs the high resolution agreement, but it will take six months to have the land." In 2011, there were pretty close municipal elections and the PP was then talking about the need for that high resolution center. With the two-party government — if you don't like it — I remind you that you were saying that CAR was not necessary, because there was a need for a comarcal hospital — you always have to send it up; then, when you had to rule, it was just a high-resolution center. But before the elections they signed that convention, and I have it here, the 2011 collaboration agreement. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela shows you a document to the members of the House.]] From 2011 to 2015, you didn't do anything, but it came to 2015, and they tried again, "The PP approved to look for ways to fund the CAR of Lalin" — right again, before the elections — which was essential, a necessary infrastructure, they said it was a priority. 2015 elections passed, and you know what happened? PP has lost the government of Lalín. What happened then? "The board dismisses the construction of the Lalín CAR and proposes teleassistation as an alternative." It turned out then that the CAR was only essential when it ruled the PP in Lalin, but when they lost the local government it ceased to be indispensable. Counsellor, do you think people need more or less health care depending on who rules in the mayors? Because you, with counsellors, with the mayor of Lalin at the time and with some councillor who is following today in the Government of Unity, announced to the full that CAR and said it was not just a necessary investment, impresible in Lalin! And now we don't know anything about the CAR. You're going to build a health center now, after that chimney. You know what's going on? We don't know how long it will take. But at the current health centre there are still problems that will take a long time to solve, at least until the new one is built. A health center where there are ten professional headlines, but where there are sometimes three only left, because they don't cover low. A health centre where the CAP has spaces—you know it—that are practically impractical to be able to provide assistance in a minimal way. A CAP where the home hospital service shares space with the CAP, and it has to occupy places where, when the CAP professionals arrive, they have to lift all the petate, get out of there and march to other spaces on the same day! Counselor, it's not acceptable. So what we're considering is whether you think it's decent to keep a village like Lalin, a city almost like Lalin, with that health care depending on who rules, because that's not decent, and if you're going to do something to solve the situation in a real way, without promises, with specific questions, Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u324	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u325	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. The truth is that at the moment, health care in Lalin is a very good aid, with a full portfolio of services both in ordinary care — family medicine, pediatrics and nursing — as well as in support services: physiotherapy, dentistry, midwives, pharmacy and even radiology. There are thirteen family doctors, with a ratio of half the Welsh, who are low at the national level, with one thousand three hundred cards per optional. Or the ratio of pediatrics, for example: seven hundred forty-five children per pediatrician, a low and very good ratio to assist; even that of nursing, with 1,277. So, the ratios, conditions and services in Lalin, we think they're good. Obviously, if we're talking about improving space -- infrastructure as such -- and including new services, that's why we're working on it. But you look at the management policy and marketing policy that you practiced, which was about CAR, CAR, CAR, and nobody knew what CAR was. You even speak in the question of the High Performance Center in Lalin. I thought that was something related to elite sportsmen. Looks like no, that CAR is something else. Well, we don't agree with that definition or what we wanted to do in Lalin. We're going to make an integral health center, like there's in Vigo one and as if we're also trying to do in Lugo, another integral health center. By the way, it took us months and months to get the construction license and we don't have it yet. In that case, we, of course, presented a functional plan of spaces to the Lalín Town Hall to give us a plot, and, after almost four years of mandate, the other day we took to the Council of Galicia and approved that plot which finally, after almost four years, the Government of Lalín made available. From there, logically, we will try to make a contract and a basic project of execution to then make an integral health center — as I say — with more functions that give a service to which we have at that time, and even do it in a superior way. But we didn't spend all this time in the plot. There was a very good meeting of mayors of Cangas and Lalín, making a cordial agreement in Cangas, saying that the council didn't want to do the health centers. On this day Lalin has already given up the plot — as I say a few days ago —; in Cangas, today, we continue without the plot. It seems that there was a division in the end and they didn't reach that agreement to reject the attitude of the councillor. But what we're saying is that we're with new services: we created the Fairy in Lalín, Hado that already has an important activity...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u326	Thank you, Counselor. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u327	...and we're also doing haemodialysis in the county of the Ten. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u328	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u329	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, to make it quite clear, he ended up talking to me about Lugo, Counselor. The truth is that from Lalín to Lugo there is a certain geographical proximity and they're all good people, even sure they know each other, but it's not a lot of resolution that Lalín tells them that attention is very good and ends up talking about a health center in Lugo. I mean, if that's why, maybe you can talk about other communities. For being a little serious, Counselor. Look, just to quote, and these are Sergas documents you probably know, of course. In 2011, just before the elections: "Convention of collaboration between the Galego Health Service and the Lalín Town Hall in which the foundations are laid for the future construction of a new building for high resolution center, health centre and continued attention point". Bases for future construction, 2011. Year 2015: "Protocol of collaboration between the Health Council, the Galego Health Service and the Lalín Town Hall, which lays the foundations for the feasibility study". In 2011 they were going to build, in 2015 they had to study viability and now they're going to build something else, previously saying it wasn't necessary. If the health care you say is very good and has very good services, why have you spent eight years promising many more services? Were they promising above what was necessary? Were you promising something that wasn't necessary? Were you promising something because you ruled the PP? Were you promising what they didn't know or didn't even know what they promised, but how was the election campaign...? By the way, just like now, not because they've been waiting for four years, that they could do it long before; now, just before the municipal elections, again. Because what we know is that you'd have to wait another four years, which isn't because next year you're going to leave the Government, but you'd have to wait another four years to have another promise again. Mr. Counselor, the neighbors and neighbors of Lalín can't live four years of promises. Are you going to solve the problems that occur in the health center with the shortage of professionals when there is a need to cover replacements that are not covered? Are you going to solve the problem of Hado, who has to occupy spaces that don't match? Are you going to be a health center, though it's less than the neighbors and neighbors of Lalin need? Because, if not, what have you been promising so far, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u330	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Close the question, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u331	The truth is, you're not going to have a lot of electoral promises here because, in fact, it's all done by this government. In fact, I think the spokesperson who had in Lalín is going to send him to Europe, just like that he wasn't in such a hurry to give us that parcel to build; four years, almost four years, to have that plot. As I say: in this space plan, this functional plan, there will be new activities and new programs, apart from those I mentioned earlier, that will complement -- as I say -- primary resolvative care, with cardiac rehabilitation, or, also, rehabilitation of musculoskeletal diseases, attention to chronic pelvic patients, pelvic soil rehabilitation program and, also, diagnostic means of diagnosis and ultrasound so that patients — as I say — of this magnificent region can take the greatest attention. And it also includes, logically, what the CAP is, home care, which has already begun — as it said — to work. Waiting for the plot to be able to build the integral health center, we said: we will not wait, and put into operation Hado, who already has an important activity. There were thirty-five patients, one hundred seventy-eight visits; one hundred eighteen medical and nurse consultations and sixty nursing only. But in addition, by fulfilling the word, we have established and obtained this contract: the recruitment of the extrahospital haemodialysis service in the district of Ten, for an important population, a population of around thirty-eight thousand inhabitants. Let's try to avoid seven thousand trips to Santiago de Compostela. So we're going to continue working, improving primary care, improving hospital care and caring. The problem is that, many times, the municipalities seem to want to do another kind of policy — not to give ease to the Galician Union — and for this reason, we should have actions that we had a long time ago. But, of course, the Galician Union is involved in improving primary care and hospital care of the Galician Health Service for all Galician citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u332	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Raquel Arias Rodríguez and eight other Members of the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, on the balance of the Government of Greece regarding the operation and reception by the families of the children's houses since its inception
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u333	Thank you, President. Counselor, good afternoon. The demographic challenge focuses on the concerns of Europe and the developed countries. Spain and Galicia are not allies to this second demographic transition, characterized by an increase in life expectancy and a decrease in fertility. It's a phenomenon that has also been brought about by the depopulation of rural areas. All experts agree to point out that in order to evaluate the measures, they must be kept for a specified period of time and see the results in the medium and long term. Alberto Núñez Feijóo's government has been and is pioneering on making decisions and measures for this new demographic reality; pioneer for putting them into action, but also for the kind of measures it is developing. In this sense, I mean that since 2009, only in the council you're directing, as far as family, childhood and demographics are concerned, budgets have increased by sixty percent, going from fifty-seven million in 2009 to one hundred and forty-three million in today's world. In April 2013, the Galician Parliament — this parliament — approved the first Plan for the demographic dynamisation of Galicia and, two years later, created the General Directorate which specifically addresses demographic issues. In addition, that same year the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020 will also be launched, and very soon Parliament will also come to the law of demographic impulse, a law, too, which is totally innovative not only in Spain, but in Europe. All the measures that are being taken for demographic impulse, to meet this new demographic challenge, have a special impact and focus on rural areas. So, we have zero taxes in rural, facilities for young people to buy a housing in rural and for generational relief, and also for services. We have to highlight here two fundamental services in terms of conciliation and attention to rural people: the homes of the eldest and the nesting houses. And precisely counsellor, we wanted to talk about this today: about the nesting houses. The Government has introduced them as an innovative resource to serve those municipalities of less than five thousand inhabitants who help to reconcile, also create jobs and set up population in rural areas. Now, three years after the start of this service, from the People's Group, we wanted to know what the government's rating of this service is and how it's working. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u334	Thank you, Mrs Arias. [[Applause]] Response from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u335	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Arias, thank you for bringing to this parliament today a matter of as much relevance as children's houses. These little houses contribute to making Galicia's equal opportunities a reality. To receive quality childhood education cannot be reserved only for people and families living in urban areas. Positive measures and actions are needed to achieve equal opportunities and to ensure social justice. The Galician Union, in its commitment to care for and support, too, the families, set up the nested houses in the rural nuclei. It is a pioneering measure that brings the resources of reconciliation and attention to early childhood to the Greek municipalities of less than five thousand inhabitants who lack them, while revitalizing the Italian countryside so that it remains a living and populated environment. In this sense, since 2016, the Social Policy Council, through the order of the children's houses, has financed the creation of sixty-one centers, distributed throughout the entire Galician geography, or the same thing, of 300 new child care squares in the rural region of Galicia. And in the next few weeks, a new call will be issued to open fifteen new centers, so that seventy-six centers are open at the end of the legislation. The nesting houses are part of the effort the Government is making to make our community the best place to form a family, with more than twenty-four thousand public squares from 0 to 3 years old, twice as much as in 2009; with more funds than ever for the Welcome Card and the Good Council, and with improvements in the Kind Care to also allow it to finance the service of a playhouse. And since 2016, the Greek business parks have had help to set up a child's school in their plots. All these measures are at the disposal of the Greek families so that there is no disunity between working life and family and personal life. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the start-up of the children's homes has shown a positive impact on the Greek society, because they offer more facilities to improve reconciliation, because they favor local economic dynamization and because they contribute to curbing the demographic decline. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u336	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u337	Thank you. Thank you, Counselor. The fact is that the figures you're presenting here today are illustrative: in just three years, sixty and a small house in operation, or in progress, in rural Galicia, and in the next summons will come to seventy-six, with three hundred eighty-eight squares which, in addition, according to the order, are free for parents and mothers who make use of them. An investment by the Galician board of 7.3 million euros for a rural service that comes to add to other services, also innovative, of what you were talking about today, such as child schools in industrial polygons. This measure, which is also highly innovative, must also be stressed that it sets in place mechanisms for collaboration and cooperation between industries, families and administrations, which is essential for co-responsibility and reconciliation. I must say that they are all measures that are being added, as you say, at the start of other squares of children's schools, and that they make this Government of Galicia multiply by two the number of available squares and rise the rate of the 19 percent in which it found it in 2009 up to the current forty-two percent, very above — nine points above — of what is requested or is said to be appropriate on the part of the European Community. To this one must add -- as I said well -- the Council bond, the Care bond, the Welcome card -- finally, I think we must be proud to be pioneers as to the implementation of conciliation measures, both by the type of resources and by the coverage they have in this community. I, as a person who is born and lives in rural areas, have to especially thank or value the resource we refer to today, the nesting houses, because I check every day...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u338	Thank you, Mrs Arias. Thanks, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u339	...as it is to provide services in rural areas, as in cities, because we live where we live, we have the right...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u340	Thank you, your time is up. [[Mrs. Arias Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Close this question, Social Policy Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u341	Thank you, President. Mr Arias, thank you again for your interest in children's homes, a conciliation resource in which Galicia is a community of reference. The great welcome the families gave to this service, and the good and magnificent evaluations of the professionals working in them, they encourage us, as I told you earlier, that in 2020 there will be seventy-six children's homes scattered throughout the rural of Galicia. In other words, one in three municipalities of less than five thousand inhabitants will have a conciliation resource, something that was previously practically reserved for people living in cities and villages. That's why I would like to recognize today the courage and commitment of the professionals, rather the professionals, who manage them, and I speak in a woman's voice, because the hundred percent of the people who manage children's homes are women. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia is committed to its own future and has a wide range of measures to help families economically and to always promote the reconciliation of mothers and parents. New initiatives such as children's homes are fundamental to raising up to forty-two percent the coverage ratio of public squares in children's schools, the double that existed in 2009. I can assure you that we will continue to move in this same direction and that we will do so for all families, live wherever they live and wherever they are. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u342	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and two other Members of the G.P. de In Marea, on subsidies granted by the Galician Union to Youth Farmers
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u343	Thank you, President. Good morning. Counselor, today we've come to ask you about their relationship, and also about their relationship, with Juan Pérez Miramontes, the former president of Youth Farmers, because the truth is that we are alarmed enough. We are concerned about the relationship the People's Party had with a person accused of financing a network of trafficking and exploitation of women in which there could even be minors. As you know, he's been arrested recently. But, besides, it's not the first time Juan Miramontes is news. Already in 2016 it was news of the misuse of the grants granted to it by the Galician Union. He received very important approaches: only from 2011 to 2014 received amounts of something more than seventy thousand euros, and, as I say, they weren't the only ones. And while he received all this money, he was denounced for defaults, he had many complaints about work, he was denounced for buying his own property with this money and he came to publicly claim that hiring companies to relatives and friends was done and had nothing wrong, because it was better to put into the house known. First of all, the Galician Union constantly looked to the other side, and perhaps the reason that the Union and the People's Party had all this time kept this abandonment of doing absolutely nothing with this lord was for such close relations that it kept the People's Party with Juan Pérez Miramontes. It's not something that had been hidden: he was traveling by boat with Mariano Rajoy and Ana Pastor, he organized a rally with Fraga and even set up a platform for them to protest against the Bipartite. In addition to all this, we had to listen recently, when he was arrested for this supposed funding of this plot of women, the Feijóo wished him luck and said he didn't care at all. It seems to us quite worrying that the president does not worry about the situation of all these women who could have been and who were victims of trafficking. So the first thing we want to do in this intervention is to ask them to uncheck these statements and correct them. Of course you cannot wish you luck, because, with these words of the president, you seem to be more concerned by the situation of Juan Pérez Miramontes, friend or former friend of the People's Party with many more obvious relationships and proven with many photographs, which, as I say, by the women who have been exploited. We do not understand, as I say, that you do not worry about this possible implication. You can't say you're another person, because there's a lot of evidence of the People's Party's direct relationship with this lord. That is why we also ask them to investigate all the subsidies they have given them and every public euro they have given to this association. Because, with statements like what he did, it's obvious that the money wasn't used for what he was given. That's why our question is very clear. We think they should look into the relationships and friendships the People's Party has with a lot of people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u344	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u345	...because they're not timely cases, unfortunately, of what we're talking about today.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u346	Thank you. Answer from the Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u347	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I must clarify that this question is not addressed. If you want to know the relationship between a private and a party, you should either address the individual or the party. I represent, and with great pride, the Government of Galicia; I am here today as councillor of the Middle Rural Unity of Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] Therefore, given this fact, the question should be addressed to the People's Party; it is more, as the Executive's representative, to enter these considerations would undoubtedly be beyond my competences. [[Murmurs.]] It was very necessary to make this punctuality and clarification; I would ask them a little patience. Now, after listening to the context of the question, I see that you want to know what approaches have been made since June. And since transparency is one of the pillars of this government, I'm going to communicate here today the data of aid that the Rural Council did, in fact, to the Youth Farmers' Professional Association and other similar trade unions. First of all, we have to say that the year in which the Youth Farmers' Professional Association received more support from the Rural Council was in 2008, being in the government the Bipartite. In that year they received eight hundred and fifty thousand euros. [[Murmurs.]] During the four years of the Bipartite, this entity received a total of €2.540,847. [[A Mrs: Almost a million!]] This association continued to receive assistance when the People's Party entered the Government of the United Nations; in particular, until 2014. [[Murmurs.]] At this time received €2,389,558. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] We must also point out that this association, during the Government of the People's Party, has opened different reintegration files for non-compliance of the premises acquired for maintaining activities of agricultural interest. The total of the reintegration required in these files amounted to EUR 2 million 100,000. If we add the total received by the Bipartisan Government — two million five hundred and forty thousand — and during the early years of the People's Party's government, we have a total of four million nine hundred thousand euros in this partnership. Given the total required for the return of the reintegration files, the total amount does not reach the three million; that is, we take away the two million of the reintegration we demand. On the other hand, other associations or unions, such as the Galician Labour Union or Agricultural Unions, have received at this time a much greater amount. For example, the Galician Labour Union received a total of two million euros during the Bipartite and a total of two million euros during the Government of the People's Party. Agrarian Unions, on the other hand, felt during the two-party government a total of two million five hundred thousand euros and during the People's Party Government two million six hundred thousand euros. [[Murmurs.]] I remember that, as I have already said, the Youth Farmers' Professional Association has demanded a reintegration by the People's Party for non-compliance of more than two million euros, and since 2014 there have been no aid or near which the Council of Galicia has made this union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u348	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u349	Well, the truth is, the first thing I have to say to you is that your answer seems an insult to me, first of all, but to the whole of Greek citizenship. You know perfectly well that the Government of the People's Party and the People's Party are exactly the same. And as always, he used the three minutes to not answer anything at all. He talked about the help they did -- I'd ask some respect -- to other trade union organizations, when those organizations met and didn't use public money to buy chalets and multimillionaire boats. [[Murmurs.]] And, above all, what's worse: he didn't say a single word about more than half of my intervention, which was to say why the President of the Galician and People's Party wish him luck to a person who is allegedly involved in financing a network of sexual exploitation of women, in a network of trafficking in women. Not one word, not ten seconds did he deny this wish of luck to a gentleman who does not have alone, unfortunately, this in his resume; as I say, he has much more and was known. And to say that he stopped financing it, when he knows perfectly that the union has been cancelled for other reasons... well, he doesn't call us idiots in his face; at least he has a minimum of decency and he doesn't come here to lie and turn reality as he's interested in it. It's not a novelty that comes here and they don't answer anything at all; they do it very often. Because you talked about anything but what we came to ask you, because making specific figures is pretty hard when they're... bother them, they probably bother you so much because they know about the direct relationship. [[Murmurs.]] As I say, there are photos, there are videos and there's a lot of information about this gentleman's direct relationship with the People's Party, and not a word he said about this man's relationship. It's not the relationship with a particular one, it's the relationship with a gentleman who has brought thousands of public euros; thousands of public euros that the People's Party has given this man to finance his vices, his private cars, his houses and his yachts. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u350	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u351	And in those yachts he shared trips with Mariano Rajoy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u352	Thank you. Time's up. Thank you. [[Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Close this question, Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u353	President, ladies and gentlemen. I insist on remembering what I have already commented on in my first reply: we must make it clear, firstly, that, if I wish to know the relationship between a private and a party, I cannot over-limit myself by entering into these matters; I speak as advisor of the Rural Middle. [[One honourable Member: People's Party!]] What if I can do — which, in addition, I have already done and which I will now return — is to move here with total transcendence — I repeat: with total transcendence — the aid received by the Youth Farmers' Professional Association and contextualize them in time and within its scope. This association received a total amount of more than €2.540,000 during the Bipartite Government. Then — as we all know — the People's Party again entered the Government of the Union and this association received aid up to 2014 for a total of €2,389.000. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In addition, we must point out that during the People's Party's Government, different reintegration files have been opened for non-compliance with fate... [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u354	Quiet, please! I'll stop the time; silence. Mrs. Quinteiro said no data was given; data was being given. There are the Bipartite and... I understood everything perfectly; I understood even the number, even the millions that were given. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Silence! It's over; it's clear to me. [[Balbordo.]] I think this is an answer... of course, another thing is that you don't like; that's another topic. [[Murmurs.]] [[Protests.]] But the answer is clear. [[Mr. González Vázquez: Now go!]] [[Protests.]] Continue, Counselor. This is over; that's it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u355	We must also point out that during the Government of the People's Party, different reintegration files have been opened for non-compliance with the premises acquired for maintaining activities of agricultural interest. Repeat: Reintegration files. The total return on these files was EUR 2,100,912. I mean, we give him help for 2,389.000 and we ask him for the two million-hundred-thousand reintegration. What I don't know is what happened to the help of the Bipartite, who wasn't asked for his reinstatement. [[Balbordo.]] If we add up the total received by the Bipartite Government and during the early years of the People's Party Government, we have a total of 4,930,000 euros. In view of the total required to be returned by the reintegration files, the total amount did not reach the three million. I'm going back to saying there were other associations, such as the Galician Labour Union or Agricultural Unions, which have received at this time a greater amount. And I also want to remember that the year in which the Youth Farmers' Professional Association received more help from the Government of Galicia was in 2008, being in the Government the Bipartite; in that year it received 80,000 euros. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-30-DSPG113.u356	Quiet. The thing is clear. I've even understood it; I'll see if it's clear that I've understood it. So, with that already, I have to attend to all the debates. Well, it's over; it's over. Good night, everyone.
