ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u1	Good morning. The session of today is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of the Parliament of Galicia, so it is not read. The president of Parliament, Mr. Miguel Santalices, and the spokesperson for the BNG Group, Mrs. Pontón Mondelo. Provision of promise or oath to abide and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of a new Member's autonomy in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u2	We are on the agenda, but we have, as a preliminary point, the promise or oath to abide by and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of Galician autonomy of the new Member, Mrs. Encarnación Lineiro Pouso. By complying with Article 7.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure, I shall apply for the promise or oath to comply with and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute for the Self-Government of the new Member. According to the procedure, the formula is to answer "yes, I swear" or "yes, I promise" to the question of this presidency. I'm asking you to answer the question I'm going to ask you. Mrs. Incarnación Lineiro Pouso, do you swear or promise to adhere to and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of Galician Self-Government?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u3	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u4	Once the promise has been made, you shall acquire the full condition of the honourable Member. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] So let's move on to the first point, the point of legislative texts. Ditame debate and vote, drawn up by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the draft law on measures to guarantee supply in drought and health risk situations
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u5	There are still amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, also by the Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, by the Group of the Left and by the Group of the Galician Socialists, which we are not going to list because they are many and you already have them. The President of Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, Mr Castineira Broz, has the floor for the presentation of the Commission's Ditame.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u6	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on means of ensuring supply in drought and health risk situations was entered in the register of Parliament on 12 July 2019. Its admission to proceedings was made by the Bureau of Parliament at the meeting on 17 July, which opened the deadline for the submission of amendments — which ended on 18 September and 5 October 2019 for amendments to the whole and the articulated respectively —. Specifically, the three amendments to the total return, tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Groups, the Galician Nationalist Block and the Left Joint Group, were rejected at the plenary session on 8 October 2019. For its part, the amendments to the articulation submitted and admitted to the procedure were a total of 183 —62 of the Joint Parliamentary Group, 41 of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, 23 of the Parliamentary Group of the Joint Left, 46 of the Socialist Group of Galicia and 11 of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia. Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, at its meeting on 17 October, appointed the panel responsible for drawing up the report, which was formed at the end of the same meeting, with the following rapporteurs: Mr Gonzalo Trenor López, of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia; Mr Luís Manuel Álvarez Martínez, of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia; Mr Cal Ogang, of the Joint Left Group; Mr Xosé Luís Bará Torres, of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia; and Mr David Rodríguez Estévez, of the Joint Parliamentary Group of Galicia. Subsequently, Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, at its meeting on 21 October, approved the dictation which I am presenting, by seven votes in favour, one against and four abstentions. In addition to the relevant technical amendments, 38 amendments — one of them was incorporated into the text of the bill. It is therefore necessary to complete the processing of this legislative procedure today with the approval, if any, of the draft law on measures to guarantee supply in drought and health risk situations. Thank you very much, and thanks to the rapporteurs for their work.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u7	Thank you very much. We now turn to the parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, defend the amendments maintained. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u8	Well, good morning to all and all. From the Joint Parliamentary Group, we stress once again that we are concerned about some aspects of this new law, which we believe may contravene certain regulatory provisions by articulating a direct intervention regime by the Galician Waters itself, with a regulation still undeveloped today. It may contravene administrative processing that would correspond, thereby undermining the system of guarantees that is legally established today. From In Marea, from the Joint Parliamentary Group, we are aware of the need for measures in order to protect our water resources, and the measures adopted in this law must be preceded by a deep analysis to avoid actions that could have irremediablely affected the hydraulic public domain, a deep analysis which we think has not been carried out since the Joint Group. It is essential that the legally established procedures be followed by the intervention and consensus of all the administrations involved, from the water communities of the neighbouring parishes, from the municipalities themselves, from the ecological groups that are defending our hydrographic channels, from the deputies and also from the Union itself. From the Joint Parliamentary Group we reject the creation of a sanctioning regime. We see in this dry law that there is much emphasis on "sanction, sanctions, sanctions..." to the municipalities again, and we refuse the creation of a sanctioning regime to the municipalities depending on the existence of losses or leaks in municipal supply networks. Because we say: why, instead of sanctioning, do we not enable aid that is really effective to improve these municipal networks and correct the evasive and loss that there may be? This law, apart from it, will also contravene the provisions of articles of different laws and royal decrees. From January 2017 until summer this year, it's true that we've been with drought episodes in our country, acute, strong drought episodes. This has not been an isolated fact, this is going to happen again in the next few years, or in the next decades, because of the climate change that's there and that's a reality. The impact of drought we began to perceive with intensity in that year 2017, when it rained 27% less than in other years, but it was the result of months of scarce rains. In 2017 we recorded the same amount of rain as we need it to fall before the end of February to prevent the drought from occurring, almost 650 liters per square metre. To understand how far these figures are from what should be normal, let's think that in Compostela the precipitation usually reaches the 1,500 liters per square metre; that is, in 2017 they dropped 1,000 liters less per square metre. The shortage of rain has already had terrible effects on our economy. The collection of grapes from the main designations of origin in 2017 decreased by 50%. The glovers of the central massif, of the districts of Viana or Trives, had to resort to the pastures they were saving for winter. And brown production that same year has been markedly reduced, reaching more than 50% loss. The drought we have suffered since 2017 has not only been a timely and extraordinary phenomenon but has been a symptom of climate change that is taking place around the globe. Global warming is a reality whose effects we now begin to feel stronger and stronger. That is why preventive measures must be taken in the medium and long term in order to shorten it and minimize its negative effects on our lives and on the life of the planet. In this line, the Economic and Social Council itself, in 2017, urged in its report this year to promote plans to improve the management and use of water, to clarify competences — something that does not occur in this law — and that administrative competences in the use of this public good were ordered. On the one hand, it is necessary to carry out campaigns to combat climate change in order to prevent the climate from further escalating its conditions. Climate change is no longer an abstract threat but a reality that has to be fought with short- and long-term policies. This is something we owe to future generations. On the other hand, it is necessary to set up a dialogue table where — it was necessary — it is now too late to set up that dialogue table —... where the main actors affected by drought participated — in something that did not happen — in order to debate proposals that would help to alleviate their damage, but also to design strategies and protocols that would help address similar situations in the coming years. We think there's enough reasons to worry and we think this law is necessary. From the Joint Parliamentary Group, from Marea, we see that this law is necessary, but we don't see with good eyes the procedure this law has taken. We see a lot of eves in this law and we see a missed opportunity to do things well. We don't know what this rush is. It is likely that we must now put laws with footwear so that the advocacy committee of the People's Party takes a career towards the upcoming elections. Everything we haven't done in the last three years has to do now in the last one. And we see wrong as this new law has happened, because we have found very powerful background failures, something that the German Government itself, in the process of different laws, has accustomed us to: lack of participation of sectors involved, rockets with privatization, water resources policy or more burden of work for the municipalities — or the municipalities again. This law takes measures to implement in the event of drought. One of them is that Galician Waters, a body that depends on the Infrastructure and Mobility Council, may order the right of private water from sources, wells, chafarices or water catchment mines, among others. The Galician Union, the confederations and the municipalities must have emergency plans, equipped with indicators or alerts identifying the arrival of the drought, and have planned alternative savings and supplies measures. What do you commit to, again, the Union itself in this law? Then again to squeeze a little more the Town Councils. What technical and economic means do most of the municipalities in our country have to deal with these plans? They don't have any technical resources or economic resources to make another plan. Let's remember that in 2017, in the fire strike, the municipalities were forced to make these emergency plans in case of forest fire. And today very few have them because they have no technical or economic capacity to do so. The new rule provides the Self-Government with capacity for action to ensure water supply if local authorities are not competent. That's right, then we're talking about sanctions that the Galician Union can put in the municipal authorities. We are also concerned — and very much — about the flexibility of expropriating and administrative procedures which are envisaged in a chapter, since, in the event of urgent work, it is not guaranteed that speed, in resolving certain procedures, protects the property rights of individuals or communities from neighboring mountains in common, or that even the relevant environmental procedures are not complied with. We also find it more serious to see other aspects that this law collects, such as reducing the ecological flows of rivers. And we have already said this in this plenary session, when it was presented, and we have said this in the Commission. We think this is the last blow to the existing ecosystems, which we already have very weak in our country today; apart from the fact that we can interpret that hydroelectric companies are going to benefit from this rule. We think it had to be in reverse, the Galician Union has to make a plan and comply with it, a plan that is being complied with and where, at least, it is catalogued, quantified, its own river biodiversity; that strategies are developed to recover threatened species and control the populations of invasive species, as well as, in the rivers of its competition, exercise the functions envisaged in the legislation for the enforcement of the ecological flows of hydroelectric dams as well as the operation and maintenance of the stairway system for migratory species. The Galician Union, in those areas where it is not competent, will force the competent state bodies to comply with the ecological flows by large hydroelectric dams, and that these tails are established in daily, not annual volumes. Because measuring the ecological flow of a river, a dam, in a one-year course because it's supposed to be with two or three months without falling a drop of water through that river, killing that river, and then throwing it all together to fulfill that flow. And referring to hydroelectric companies, here in this law it says that in the event of drought they will be ordered to use water re-induced in industrial or hydroelectric uses. It's funny that, when we talk about other jurisdictions of rivers, water communities, etc., we've already talked about reducing, reducing; but when we talk about hydroelectrics, we talk about ordering. And then we also see how important something that has happened far above this law, which is the water communities, the neighbouring communities. And I don't know on other sides, but in my county, today, more than half of the drinking water communities are neighbors and neighbors, not municipalities. And very few, or no, know of this law. Who made those supply networks? In their own time, the neighbors and the neighbors made them. In some villages that only have two houses open today they manage their water responsibly, they and they manage the pipes when there are losses, when there's a damage, because they're interested, because they have to do it that way. Who's gonna do that community water audit? I understand the municipalities. But let's go back to it: the municipalities have no technical or economic capacity to do so. And we stressed that we don't want us to be accused of not taking this law forward, we think this law is necessary but not so, not as it was done. Professional schools, autonomic and municipal service technicians, social movements with interest in the sector and, in general, users themselves do not know this law that we are discussing today. A longer, more participatory reflection period has to be opened, where these groups have been invited to participate; a reflection period to draft this law in those areas that were necessary to be more effective, more cost-effective and to make better management of the resource. In the country of the thousand rivers we don't have water not only because of climate change, in the country of the thousand rivers to Junta de Galicia is an accomplice in the lamentable state that many of these present—the River Limitia, the River Furelos, etc.—are present. A feeling of helplessness in looking at the sad state in which our water resources are found while you sell candy and dishes to Green Galicia, when you are guilty in most cases of the deplorable state of our water resources. A few months ago, a newspaper in this country concludes a press release, which could well be drafted by you, saying that the severity of the 2017 weaver sheds light on the absence of measures to cope with an episode of water scarcity, which forced you to create a law that not only collected how to act in the case of drought, but also that it set out measures to improve the channeling and optimize supply. And among these measures that you drew up in that paper, you didn't have to bear these costs, such as the placement of approved counters for consumption measurement within one year — something that will have to be done by individuals — the drafting of the audit to quantify the losses — you didn't have to do it, you don't have to do it, you don't have to do it, the approval of a plan to minimize losses — you haven't said who has to do it, you have to do it, the councils have to do it, or the realization of improved works on the network so that the water leaks won't exceed 20% of the supply, with three years of time for its execution — you will also have to do them. Do our municipalities have enough resources to cure what Galician Waters or the Union itself hasn't done in recent years? And then there's the emergency plans, the ones we were talking about before. But these plans that refer to this law that we are debating here today were already an imposition that collected the regulations of the waters of Galicia and that no council had done. What has the Galician Union done and dedicated to the Galician Waters in recent years? You'll know. We, from the Joint Parliamentary Group, have tabled amendments. Some have been accepted by the Commission, some have withdrawn it, and the others have kept it because we think they can improve this text. Let's hope they get here today. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. Mr Bará Torres has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u10	Good morning. This bill which is put to the vote today is the finding of a failure. It is the 10 years lost by the People's Party in Galicia's Water Union. And what the People's Party comes to say with this law is that you give up, that you don't have to solve much of the problems and that you haven't fulfilled your obligations. And what he does is to lay down other people's duties; in this case, fundamentally, to lay down duties for the municipalities. But the Union did not do its own duties before. And the best example that you haven't done your homework — there's a lot of them — is that you haven't even executed your hydraulic investment stakes. And so the 542A game, planning and hydraulic management, has failed to run in the last ten years more than 200 million euros. And in 2018, since we have complete data, it turns out that it had a reduction of 25 million euros from the initial budget, which was 38 million and it was 12 million. What are you talking about if you're not able to even execute your own budget forecast when there's, besides, so many needs in this matter? And he didn't do his duties because, to begin with, he didn't develop the Water Framework Directive, which sets clear criteria and priorities in this area, which he's done for a long time ago and the People's Party hasn't put on that task. For example, to work on a water issue that is fundamental to participation and co-responsibility, or cost recovery, or efficient and sustainable use. And neither the People's Party, the Galician Union, has developed the so-called "new water culture", which has much to do with this framework directive and which is key to changing the paradigm, that consumer paradigm, for a new efficiency and savings, for a paradigm of conservation and protection of resources, which is fundamental to talking about water policies; criteria that were also clearly marked in the Law on the Protection of the Greek Rivers, of 2006, the first law of popular legislative initiative adopted in this Parliament and that the People's Party has been closed to which it is ten years, stored in a drawer. Well, look, I'm going to remind you what that law says is in force and you haven't met. Article 5, management of water use: "The different actions related to water and rivers will be based on the principles of demand management..."—management of demand, not supply management, as you do with this law—"...recovery of costs..."—as established by the Water Framework Directive, which you were unable to apply—"and consideration of water and rivers as an eco-social asset"—which is not at all in your policies. And article 7 of this law says: "A plan of environmental education related to the household, industrial and agro-gaging uses of water will be developed, which will prioritize the reduction of consumption..."—the reduction of consumption!—not what we have now, that Galicia is far above average in water consumption per capita, and we have these data—...with specific attention to both urban and rural environment, prevention of pollution in order to start building a new water culture." This is from 2006 and you've been ten years without giving water to your mill and taking water to your mill, because you've worried a lot, in your planning and your actions, about financing certain works. Well, this law also talked about the hydrological plans and the need for measures to be put in place in those plans that have not, and so on, restored river ecosystems, integrated improvements to river ecosystems, which are essential for the entire water cycle and for the preservation and conservation of resources. And, look, the best and the greatest proof of their failure — we can say that there is no clearer one — is that they were unable in ten years to create the Sustainable Water Use Council, which is provided for in the 2010 Law. I think it's not so hard to create advice for the sustainable use of water in which all entities and organisms have something to say about this matter. And so this is proof that you are a disaster like a government, because you are unable to create even the body that has to regulate — that you would have to inform this law, by the way — and that it does not exist yet when in 2013 they announced that it would be created within a year. But, of course, as Mr. Agustín Hernández announced, who counted here more trolls than... I don't know... because little trust is. And besides, it also testifies to this shocking failure of the water policy of the People's Party is that they were unable to approve the local water pact, which also has much to do with this bill that we are debating today. Because that pact was also announced by Mr. Hernández in this gallery of Parliament at a meeting on his own request in November 2013, six years ago: "The Board is one year long to deal with a single receipt of water", which is one of the fundamental issues of the Local Water Pact and has to do with the efficient use of resources and the reduction of water consumption. Together and Fegamp advance in the development of the local water pact. This news is from 2014. For what they made little progress. Environmental Advisor Beatriz Mato, February 22, 2017, met with Fegamp and said, "Impulse of the local water pact, tariff unification and improved supply and sanitation." Nothing at all, nothing at all! They didn't do anything, nothing, nothing... and that's why people put a hangover on them. It puts a very poor one, it puts a very narrow eye on its environmental policies, which are the worst rated — together with employment and social policies — by citizens. Look, you've even come here to approve, on your own initiative, an agreement to drive the local water pact and to drive two central actions, which are tariff policy, the unification of tariff policy, which is a necessary measure to reduce consumption -- I told you that we are at the ranking of communities that have the most water consumption per capita -- and also set the priority when planning and deciding on the works to be done in hydraulic matters. But this doesn't interest you either, and we know why: because they always want to take the water to their mill. And if this wasn't enough, of everything they left without doing, we would also have to talk about the planning that you approved by the Water Law in 2010, and which is also provided for in the 2015 regulation, the need to make a Greek supply plan, which also has a share in the Galician Coast Water Plan of 500,000 euros that you were unable to invest. It would have to be done already because the law is 2010, and it would have to be done before doing this bill. In addition, the law and regulation also oblige them to have a specific programme of actions aimed at rationalizing water consumption and consequently saving water resources, and they have done nothing about it. And don't come here again to say that the powers of water supply are from the municipalities, because we already know that. But we also know what the powers of the state are. By the way, we ask in our amendments that all water competences directly manage Galicia, including watersheds. We know what the powers of the State are. And we also know what the powers of Junta are, because they're in the Water Law and they're in all the regulations that develop it. And one of them is to work in this direction. They're also in the law of the Greek rivers, which you didn't comply with. On the specific action programme aimed at rationalizing water consumption and consequently saving water resources it turns out that you don't do this, but now ask the municipalities to fix all the problems in record time. This is not serious, this is not decent, because besides, without any kind of funding, without any kind of transfer of resources to the municipalities, now it has to be the deputies who save the municipalities. Together has nothing to do with it, but it turns out you haven't done your homework. Look, the biggest problem, the underlying problem, the greatest discrepancy we have with this law, is that it's a law that bets on reactive policies. I mean, everyone knows that we have a serious problem with drought, with climate change, but here they're betting on reactive policies, patching up, not global, comprehensive and preventive policies that analyze all the complexity that this problem has and that they also engage in climate change. It certainly does not appear in the law, in the explanatory statement or in the text of the law, as does not appear in the Water Directive, as does the philosophy and the new water culture that speaks of the conservation and protection of resources and the reduction of consumption. You make a law that is solely focused on supply, on supply of more water, through transvasions, through new captures, but not on reducing, in preserving, protecting, saving, reusing water — which does not appear practically anywhere either. So, you don't see the whole problem, which also has to do with the sectoral policies that you make and which lead to the destruction of water resources; for example, policies against biodiversity, forest policies, macromining policies, policies on depredation, waste management policies, or policies on the construction of commercial macrocentres, such as Mos, which you are promoting, which is precisely the waste of water resources. That's the People's Party model. You are, as we have told you on other occasions, a kamikaze driver who goes in the opposite direction to which policies aligned precisely in the fight against climate change should go. And it's not a realistic law either about the deadlines and the measures to reduce losses, which in the end is the great reason to be. By the way, you have forgotten — we had to put it through an amendment from the BNG — to lay down duties on companies, only duties have been placed on the preliminary draft law, on the municipalities and on the water communities, but not on the companies. Now there are also companies, I say, for an accepted amendment of the BNG. They don't take into account the reality of town halls and local water betrayers. We have 33,000 population nuclei in Galicia, we have a reality of thousands of neighbouring communities that are solving a problem that has to solve administrations. And you, instead of making a massive plan of public investments to improve and modernize those water betrays, what they do is they make obligations so they have to make investments without practically any help. Because if there are some municipalities that are giving them help to provide a service that they had to lend to the municipalities, but many others don't. And if this is not enough, it turns out that it is also a law dealt with with with with a poor participation, precisely by going against that principle of the Water Framework Directive which speaks of the importance of co-responsibility and social participation in this matter. Because you — once again we have to report it publicly here — have examined the parliamentary hearing procedure provided for by Parliament's Rules of Procedure. You have an allergy to democracy, an allergy to participation. And these pos come later from the lameiras, such as the Rehabilitation Act, where you ran the report of the Galician Culture Council, checked the hearing here from the Galician Culture Council. And then the Galician Council of Culture — not at the request of the Union, but at the request of Icomos — made a demolition report, absolutely demolishing, against that law, which puts at risk — Idiom Icomos and also the Galician Council of Culture — the protection of the heritage and even of goods of cultural interest and cities that are declared human heritage. That's what that report says. And I say we present to them a proposal for a presentation, in the presentation process, of various entities, of municipalities, of water communities, of representatives of consumers and also of ecologists. You guys ran this procedure. And don't come here to tell us that there has already been prior participation, because that previous participation is regulated and participation in Parliament is also regulated, that it is indeed optional but that you are systematically vetoed. They didn't allow her again. For all these reasons, therefore, BNG will not approve this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u11	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left Joint Group, Mr. Cal Ogango has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u12	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. As the rapporteurs of this law from different groups already know, our group is going to vote against this law. And we could summarize the main reason in a very short sentence that justifies our position: it's a negationist law that does not take into account the climate emergency. It's a law that clears the context of climate change in which we're immersed, that obviously the drought came to stay, that obvious drought as an element of our climateology. Who could think that the People's Party would bring to plenary just the week in which a negationist law is being held in Spain? Yeah, she's doing it. Who could think that the week in which the eyes are placed in the climate crisis, the People's Party would bring to plenary a law that speaks of managing the main vector of social and environmental condition of climate change, which is water, without taking into account climate change itself? Yeah, she's doing it. Everything is possible, and precisely in the week when the most carbon footprint company leaves in Galicia and throughout the state is worn by most newspapers offering solutions. Don money almost everything he can, from buying presidents and ministers and putting them to his service by making negationist speeches to being carried out by the major newspapers explaining to us what to do to fight climate change; when we all know that what to do to fight climate change is precisely the opposite of what has been doing Endesa, the opposite of what the People's Party has been doing. For too many years, the various governments of the People's Party have been eluding the responsibility of addressing droughts as something peculiar to our climateology, of addressing droughts as a problem we must face, blinded by their negationist myopia, of circumventing the responsibility of strict application of the precautionary principle against climate change. The successive governments of the People's Party and Mr Feijóo have eluded the obligation to address drought as an element that we must and can predict; not to avoid the inevitable but to reduce social and environmental vulnerability to an overall increase in drought cycles, aggravated by the ongoing climate change scenario. The bill that the People's Party brings today represents a strategy against drought as old-fashioned and ineffective as irresponsible and foolish. Even though they no longer dare to deny climate change within this House, it seems that they dare to deceive us once again by relaunching the old policies that brought us here, by promoting concrete, based on large transvasions and more seizures, as the only answer to a problem that essentially needs ecosystem jobs, because doing transvasions and arrests without having the resource in quantity and quality is like giving a money to a person who doesn't have money. He's got a wallet, but he's still out of money. Nor does it offer any solution that makes a law that aims to bring all the burden of responsibility to the municipalities, on the most local level; for the droughts, if they have not yet found out, are not a local problem, but regionally, so at the moment that the Oitaven River is light little water and, therefore, the Eiras reservoir threatens to leave Vigo without supply, the Verdugo River will also be in a situation of water stress, therefore, transvasion will serve to make an important environmental aggression, even seriously affecting the water-supplyers of Ponte Sampaio and Arcade, without solving the problem of supply. So in this assumption it seems quite obvious that it would only win the constructor who did the transvasion and that we would meet in a situation where the People's Party would give Galicia a water-free transvasion infrastructure — as it has already received — with the money of all and of all, airports without planes and motorways without cars. Another reason why we are going to vote against this law is that it runs counter to existing water regulations in relation to the Water Framework Directive and even to the water framework directive itself, which, if it has a literality more in line with the policies that must be developed — another thing, of course, is the application, a lack of application which the People's Party in the Galician Union faithfully reflects in this PL. The Water Framework Directive, which has been transposed into the State by a European directive and which must be complied with in Galicia, is very clear in this regard. In the legislation on water, priority must be given to the conservation and recovery of the resource and the precautionary principle must be applied, issues which do not include this law. So what's this law for? "We asked ourselves." For little more than for the Galician Union to elude responsibility at a time of emergency supply, so as not to accuse it of not legislating about it—a question which, according to its own Greek law, had to be made many years ago—and, of course, to try to make publicity and propaganda, all they can; as with Endesa, trying to make them see that they propose solutions, when you are the most important part of the problem. And everything without questioning the privatization model and concrete recipes for everything that has brought us here. To speak of drought, to talk about supply, to talk about water, you have to go from the surface, to address only a part of the entire water cycle without offering solutions, to go to the root of the problem. If they want to speak seriously, we are delighted and we have no problem sharing knowledge, because it is our responsibility as an opposition group to offer alternatives. Then you don't say you didn't find out. We must bet on participation, transparency, public participation mechanisms, to prevent corruption and the consequent deterioration of infrastructure. We need to focus our efforts on designing strategies for prevention and management of new cycles, so that social alarm does not make bad decisions. As we are obliged, we must comply with the Water Framework Directive, making a commitment for the recovery of the good environmental status of all our waters. We have to choose demand management strategies, saving and awareness from economic rationality; to defend public management of the entire water cycle as one of the major challenges of the country; to put in place urban and territorial management measures from sustainability criteria, and thus to ensure supply; to provide budgetary instruments for our municipalities and to apply rigorously the precautionary principle against climate change. We therefore have the obligation to bet on public policies that reduce social and environmental vulnerability to drought periods, public policies chaired by the challenge of the hydrological transition. This hydrological transition becomes a legal requirement for the transposition of state law and the Water Framework Directive, and it becomes, with climate change, an urgent and inaccuracyal reality. We have the urgency to move from the old strategies of subsidized supply to the new strategies of demand management and conservation of our ecosystems by recovering our rivers and our aquifers, which are our water lungs that give us nature, which are our real and effective reserves of quality water in drought periods. We urgently need to move from the old concrete culture to sustainable environmental intelligence, from the old productionism subsidized to the new economic rationality, a bet foolish by the mercantillization and privatization of water to a bet for the recovery of the integral cycle of water for the common good, and to end the tears of chronic corruption associated with the private management of water and the ineffectiveness of supply and sanitation networks. We have to prioritize savings, efficiency, transparency and social participation; and, above all, — as we said — from negationist myopia suicide to strict application of the precautionary principle against climate change, a climate change that has as its main generator vector the energy vector, there is no doubt about this issue, and that is why the key challenge of mitigation policies is in the energy transition. But as far as socio-environmental impacts are concerned, the key and the main vector of affection is the water vector. That's why adaptation policies must be presided over by the challenge of the hydrological transition. In the current climate change dynamics among the most relevant phenomena that we can predict is the decrease in the average frequency caused by the rise in average temperature and the consequent increase in evapotranspiration. On the other hand, the growing afforestation of the headings has been generating a strong reduction in the middle slope, which has yet to be developed. And that's why the high uncertainty in this scenario can't continue to justify a passive attitude. On the contrary, as required by the Water Framework Directive, we must strictly apply the precautionary principle to all these risks; the principle that it requires to prevent the most unfavorable scenarios, and it is not about being optimistic or pessimistic, but rather about being cautious by preparing ourselves for the worst possible predictions of which possibilities grow in probability when there are already inevitable breaches of the Paris agreements. We must move from demand management to supply management. In this context, it is a huge mistake to bet on old supply strategies through new seizures and transvasions rather than prioritise new demand strategies. The problem must be tackled from an perspective of chronic water scarcity, i.e. assuming from its own hydrological planning the need for demand not to exceed the availability of the resource. Ecosystem management needs to be prioritized. The Water Framework Directive should be the framework for public management policies for drought, as it sets as a fundamental objective the protection and conservation of the environmental quality of all waters, rivers, aquifers, wetlands, lakes and coastal waters. We must recover our rivers and our aquifers, at most in the shameful situation of systematic contamination of rivers and overexploitation of aquifers, which are ultimately our water lungs that give us nature, which are our real and effective reserves of quality water in drought periods. We have to bet on public management. Having flow rates in the amount and quality required is directly linked to the efficiency and modernization of supply, sanitation and debugging services; that is, a proper management of the integral water cycle. The privatization process of recent years has put water management into a context of priority of the private benefit vis-à-vis the common good. The consequences of this model are clear: lack of investment in the supply network and, as a result, a percentage of unacceptable leaks; obsolescence of the water capture, positability and purification systems; and too much corruption. We must recover the water cycle for the common good from management a hundred percent public, which means applying a management model based on criteria of sustainability and social and environmental benefit by addressing the necessary modernization of supply and sanitation networks, and by betting on research. We have already told you in the first debate of this law and we say it again — because for us it will not stay —: if you want to do something useful and prevent and mitigate the effects of drought, stop systematically violating the Water Framework Directive, take seriously the sanitation of our rivers and our rivers, bet on the recovery of hydroelectric power plants, stop betting on polluting projects, such as the Touro mine—lethal to our rivers—, take at once seriously the management of waste and accept that the model of large sinks will make our water courses of true cloacas. And don't let business lobbyists dictate forest policies and turn Galicia into a green desert. Finally, they do their conservation and management work and stop offering Galicia as a land of sacrifice so that a few can do business. For all these matters, we are going to vote against this law; for negationist, for ineffective and for failing to comply with existing water regulations. For my own sake, for now, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Cal Ogong. We take advantage to greet the students of IES As Insuas, from Muros, the ESO room students, who accompany us today. Welcome to this Parliament. And you have the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. And good morning also for the students of this school who attend an important debate about the adoption or not of a bill to ensure the water supply, of something as vital to life as water is. We are talking today about a bill that was part of the annual regulatory plan of 2018, without that forecast being fulfilled at any time, and that now the Government of Galician Union is able to adopt in its parliamentary process in less than two months, which could be interpreted as an emergency before the drought — never said better — that government itself is talking about this bill today at the global climate summit, which is being held in Madrid. The Counsellor will speak of this bill and present this initiative within that summit. In the debate of the whole of this bill, held at the plenary session of October 8, this same year, by this parliamentary group, we stated that we understand water as a potent, dynamizing and cohesion element of the territory for the economic and social development of Galicia; and that our community is characterized by a large population dispersion — which is true — that makes it very difficult to reach these services for the whole population. At the same time, the media presents a great deal of delicacy — as it has already been said here — which is a shadow beyond the negationist stances, more than ever in evidence on these dates with the celebration since yesterday of that climate summit in Madrid. This must lead us to be tenacious and persevering in reaching the objectives that mark us the Water Framework Directive, which they have already referred to as much spokesperson as preceded me. And, in that sense, our parliamentary group believes that it is necessary, firstly, to modernise supply networks, granting, if any, aid to neighbouring networks, which have been in many cases — and also repeatedly said — built and maintained by neighbouring without the assistance of the administration. It is necessary to automate, innovate and modernize drinking water treatment plants again, with special assistance to neighbouring services. Sub-municipal agreements — and this "agreements" are extremely relevant, agreements and non-impositions — are needed with the aim of optimising the use of infrastructures, especially as regards deposits, drinking water transformers and pumping stations. It is also necessary to homogenise the tariff system in the water cycle, as indicated in Article 9 of the Water Framework Directive, which sets the importance of cost recovery and the fact that prices should serve as an incentive to improve the efficiency of water consumption. There is a need for greater progress in collecting the water canon and not, as is being made insistently, linking the uses assimilated to households only to the volume of water consumed without taking into account the activity being carried out by the business or business. And it's also necessary to improve and modernize the existing sewage treatment plants, because in many cases their operation is poor, and the continuous discharges thus show it. By the way, we know perfection, thanks to a report commissioned by the Council, which is the operating regime of municipally dependent sewage treatment plants, but we don't know how those dependent on Galician waters are working. It has been a recurring task to shoulder responsibility for the local administration. There is a need for improved and automated pumping, especially in coastal areas, and for the location and elimination of spill points and improvement of networks. We have also spoken here — and it is also a matter of priority — about the integral sanitation of the rivers, and about an implication in the clearance in rural areas, which we all know perfectly that we are here that is a pending subject after ten years — as has already been said by some of the previous speakers — of absolute abandonment in the construction of infrastructures in rural areas. And at that time, when the parliamentary process began, our parliamentary group abstained in the vote because, as we said, we considered it to be a necessary law — and we continue to consider it — and we had the firm vocation to improve the drafting of the bill at the stage of the presentation. So we did it by presenting 45 amendments, of which the majority group accepted 14. And this is not a question of percentages, it's a matter of importance of the amendments that were proposed, so our initial intention of improvement has been truncated by the lack of willingness to modify a text that will certainly have multiple changes over the next few years. And if not, we'll see. And if we're not here, other people will see it. It's passed the Galician Waters Act, which has already entered the advanced thirty-years of changes. We understand and understand that this text, this law, has guidelines that start from the alleged mistrust of the Galician Union towards the local administration, which is often attributed — and rightly, of course — to a high degree of autonomy but which is imposed by this text on absolute guardianship, when you do not force very difficult assumption. And we can highlight the most relevant aspects that in our judgment has this text. First of all, more — and, indeed, it is regulated — are urged in the enforcement procedures than in the mechanisms of collaboration and in the promotion of such collaboration — reference has also been made to the sanctioning regime provided for in this legal text. The funding routes are not extended, which are limited exclusively to the municipalities or the waters of Galicia. It requires the municipalities to receive works even though there are discrepancies between local and autonomous administrations, since the works become the responsibility of the municipalities with a simple communication from the Galician Waters in case there are discrepancies about the reception of these works. There is no guarantee in any case of financial aid to the municipalities for such an elemental, prior and indispensable step as prior audits; nor, of course, for the actions necessary to achieve the targets of up to 20% losses in supply networks — objective that we have, of course, shared and that no one has questioned —. It is also lost the opportunity — calling for that local autonomy that the text itself seems to ignore — to harmonise the accounts of sanctions in cases of non-compliance with the supply or sanitation regulatory regime — an important missed opportunity. It is particularly taxive and imperative by imposing deadlines of very difficult compliance for provincial councils and deputies while it is more lax with Galician Union itself. It definitely introduces a record of losses on networks exceeding 20%. And we don't oppose the possibility of that recording being implanted, but we believe that it would first be much more relevant and effective to develop a plan that would promote the necessary actions so that that 20% would not be exceeded or that it would be minority or even residual. It would be very good, by the way, for the majority to clarify in this debate who will be the passive subject of this new recording. We're afraid it's citizenship. It was also not admitted by the majority group that an annual report on works and actions carried out by the Galician Waters was required. And we are asking this because we understand that, in addition to being necessary, Galician hydraulic administration itself would have made it very easy; firstly, because the annual budget record contains the current actions and the other planned actions. We have – and we have also made reference to this – a very questionable management of the European funds that come to do hydraulic works. Because only in the last three years, 2016, 2017 and 2018—of which we have complete information—of an initial departure of 161 million euros to make investments, Galician Waters only executed works amounting to 50 million; that is, they left without running 111 million euros. Yes, with the justification that European funds are very complex in their management. We all know, too, that the investments carried out by Galician Waters have a high degree of opacity in relation to their decision, and it can be mentioned that on many occasions they seem to comply with more political than technical criteria. And there is also no known planning to assess priority performance criteria and that could serve as a reference for some type of control. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, all the above, for clarity and transparency, must be in contrast to the amendments that our parliamentary group has tabled at the stage of the presentation, and that I shall sum up, since, of course, the time available is absolutely insufficient and it is not the objective — and for that reason is not the point — to speak of certain amendments. But if I'd like to mention only a few. First of all, with regard to the Galicia-Costa Hydrographic Demarcation Dry Plan, which is where the text obviously has a greater impact, we are asking that this drought plan be referred to this Galician Parliament in advance for its pronouncement. And it's not about vetoing or approving, since we admit it's up to the Council of the Council of Galicia for approval. But I believe that, in the matter of maximum transcendence to the entire autonomous community, the Galician Parliament — which is the highest body of representation of all Greeks and Greeks — should have knowledge of that plan and speak out about its relevance. We also ask that the water demarcation drought plan indicate the financing and timing of the investments necessary for this purpose. I believe that in a law of this magnitude, without any kind of budgetary commitment, without admitting the slightest transparency in the planning of all actions that will be necessary to achieve this goal of reducing all losses in the supply network to 20% at most, all such clarity would be necessary; therefore, it would also be necessary to indicate the timing and the necessary investments. We were not allowed, we were not accepted, which, in order to carry out all the necessary actions, local administrations could have financial assistance or close to other entities, either public or private. As for the maximum time limit set by law to carry out all the necessary actions, we could deduce a mnemotechnic rule of the "Rule 1, 2, 3" which provides for this law: one year since its entry into force for the installation of approved counters at high and low; two years for carrying out the audits and the action plan; and three years for carrying out the works that achieve a maximum of 20% of those losses. That's rule 1, 2, 3. And we, frankly, understand that this law -- one of two -- or it has a vocation to be useful and, therefore, to be able to be fulfilled or it is another law that we are all pending at last why things were not executed as was foreseen in the text itself. It seems to us that three years is an insufficient time frame for many municipalities in our autonomous community — most of them with not only a small population, but a tiny one and therefore very limited financial capacity — to be able to cope with all these works. And so we're asking that instead of those three years, it was four, which was not accepted by the majority group either. On the film we are planning to introduce, first of all, we propose its suppression. However, aware that the majority group obviously supporting the Government would not admit that suppression, we would ask that a plan be drawn up in order first to promote the necessary actions and then the Council of the United Nations could proceed to the approval of that vote and then to its approval in Parliament. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we understand that this law is still necessary, but we understand that it will not respond to the needs and expectations it generated at the time of its presentation. And therefore, regardless of whether we are also certain, firstly, that it will be approved and, secondly, that it will be substantially modified over the next few years, our parliamentary group will oppose its approval. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. You have the floor, by the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Trenor López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u16	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Good morning, too, to the guests who are in the gallery. Today I think it's a good day for a reflection. In politics, ladies and gentlemen, it's not all worth it, and sometimes it's related to things with a purely partisan purpose. Today Mr. Cal called us "negationists." I honestly understand that you can introduce nuances, I understand that you do not agree with the politics of this political party, even understand that you sometimes exaggerate certain things. But it is that same day—as Mr. Álvarez was reminded—that the adviser is participating precisely in the global summit of climate, organized by the United Nations, and presenting this law, precisely this law, and that he is listening to us all to know what is being done here to fight precisely a consequence, an effect, of climate change, when we are being heard by all of us here, it turns out that Mr. Cal calls us negationists. By the way, you're going to talk about this law and you're also going to talk about the public water cycle management company, which doesn't like the whole opposition either. And it's the same party that also presented the 2050 Strategy against Climate Change, and the same party that also approved the motion for a resolution in the debate of the state of Autonomy to declare the state of climate emergency in Galicia. Of course, with all this you come here the fixed pineapple and defend your ideas, which are only motivated by an absurd mannequinism. You understand that society is you against the rest, that is, there are no nuances, there are no colors, and that's why it makes the accusations it makes, without worrying about it. Look, there is one thing that was at least clear: that we all agree that this law is necessary. All the spokesmen who preceded me said so. And also, in addition to the experience that we all have on a daily basis also in many municipalities, we are told that to ensure water supply is essential a coordination framework between all administrations; a collaborative framework in which the Galician Union directly assumes the responsibility to ensure that these objectives are met and to guarantee technical and financial support for the municipalities, which are the legal leaders of the duty to provide water to the population. This law respects local autonomy as a responsible and competent entity of the supply system. And it respects local autonomy because supply competences are essentially municipal - so it says the Law of Local Regime bases - and it also says that, where the municipalities do not arrive, provincial deputies must support them. It also establishes the Law regulating the bases of local regimes and the Law on the rationalization and sustainability of the local administration, which precisely reinforces this role of assistance, assistance and support that must be given to Members. But despite the role of the deputies, it is the Council of Galicia which provides technical and financial support to the municipalities. Since 2009 there have been more than 300 supply actions, of which 186 municipalities have benefited. All this without talking about local sanitation plans, the creation of consortia, EDARs, the infinite infrastructure that is being carried out in Galicia. Therefore, ensuring the supply of water in quantity and quality to the population goes through the necessary collaboration between all administrations. Collaboration is necessary and responsibility is also needed. It's not just about counting on infrastructures, it's about keeping them and investing the amounts of fees that are being charged for the provision of services to maintain and rebuild those infrastructures. They're the city halls responsible for their networks, they're their acquaintances, and, as much as they want to help them, if they don't take this task seriously, there's nothing to do. I asked Mr. Rodríguez Estévez if they had resources for the municipalities. Yes, Mr. Rodríguez, of course they have resources. If they use everything they're collecting from sanitation, debugging and supply rates, they have resources. If these rates are used precisely to pay for Christmas lights, to pay for parties and to pay for anything else that doesn't have to do with supplies, of course there's no resources, of course there's no resources. But they use — which is also exactly what the Water Framework Directive says — all these resources to fix the problems they have on their networks. [[Murmurs.]] There is generally a regulation, there is one regulation, which is effective, which has enabled better management of supply systems and the construction of important infrastructures. But in recent years there have been periods of scarcity of rainfall and, as a result, of decreases in available water resources, as well as the existence of certain events that can time-consumingly reduce the amount of water intended for human consumption, and the effects — yes, also — of climate change, have revealed the existence of situations in which the guarantee of supply could be compromised. Today we are voting on a law which is designed to improve the functioning of water supply systems and to coordinate actions responsibly during the drought period. This bill seeks to shield the water supply to the population. For that, on the one hand, the scope of the planning instruments is ordered and refined in detail and, on the other hand, a regulatory framework is used to regulate the measures to be applied to ensure this supply. In view of this, our group, the majority group, the Group of the People's Party, accepted all the amendments we somehow understood that they could enrich, need or deepen in the purpose of the law. That is why we incorporated 38 amendments into the report. In addition, 34 other amendments have been removed. And in general, we have to say that amendments have been adopted from all opposition groups, except for the Parliament Group of Podemos. And, of course, I also tell you here to think about it. I'm not saying you think the People's Party is doing anything good anymore, but I mean, if, of the rest of the groups that are present here, three amendments were tabled that could be incorporated into the text and you presented amendments that couldn't be incorporated -- not a single one -- I imagine anyone with two fingers will think they did something wrong. And, of course, you guys did a lot of bad things. I have already told you in the whole debate: they have become confused with law, they have become confused with scope of application, they have become confused with the purpose of law, they have confused the context, even you have been confused with territorial reality. I have already pointed out to you that all the argument made by the Podemos Group for its amendment to the whole was made to oppose the transvasion of the Ebro and the National Hydrological Plan. And instead of rectification, ladies and gentlemen, you chose to keep the amendments to the articulated in the same line. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I understand that if this law wanted to build 145 prisoners, if it wanted to transcend more than 1,000 cubic hectometres from the Ebro basin to the Mediterranean coast, perhaps its amendments might make some sense, but that's not the case. And the worst thing is that this shows a way of doing politics not only away from reality, but also shows an absolute ignorance of legislation and how the water regulations and the purpose of the bill are structured. Look, the prevention measures you were commenting on are set out in hydrological planning. It wasn't expected that you would come to this House to make hydrological planning, it wasn't expected. You have an adanism that thinks you have to wait for you to come in here or you can teach us how to get hydrological planning done. If we had done things that are not in accordance with national legislation, or the framework directive, our entire regulation, the Water Law, all that has been done in Galicia in the last decade. It's not like that, it's not like that, no matter how much you do things for me. Look, it's necessary to regulate situations that might arise if forecasts fail or if there are extreme situations. And that's what this law is all about, not building dams and doing transvasions. Ladies and gentlemen, the work done on water, as well as the existing legislation and the differences and particularities of these legal and planning rules are unknown. They don't know our own legislation and also basic water legislation, and that's why we couldn't incorporate many of the amendments you've tabled, because they violate basic legislation in this matter. Then, ladies and gentlemen, you speak of participation. I've already told you in the paper and I've highlighted it again in the committee: there's a group of amendments that presented different groups that we couldn't accept because it involved breaking previous consensus. The preliminary draft law was published at the Transparency Portal of the Galician Board, was made available to all interested persons, was submitted to the hearing process. The legislative text is returned to different administrations involved, to different collectives, associations and trade unions with the object of which they could make their approaches and enrich the text. Among them, Fegamp agreed to the deadlines laid down in the law on auditing and quantifying losses in the networks of all municipal supply systems. After all this public participation process, if you incorporate into the text allegations and suggestions from many entities, you come here with amendments so that we do not accept these proposals. It is a mechanism of participation — as Mr Bará said — rule. Of course, it's a regulated mechanism! It's a mechanism by which those people who want to participate can do it, so those people who come closer if they respond and so those contributions that are incorporated are known to everyone. And yet, even though the Galician Union accepts proposals from these groups and from these entities, you are proposing amendments against these consensus, against participation — which you like so much. Of course, what participation are you talking about? Of the parallel parliament they were doing here, where you think that, taking your friends, can replace the legitimacy of this Parliament? That and its participatory model, a model of participation that becomes a show, which is used as an ariet against the result of the polls. That's your model of participation. Our model is the participation of people, who can participate, who can make contributions, can make claims, so they are given an answer and we all know that answer. But they're two different ways of working. Ladies and gentlemen, this law lays down measures to ensure the supply of water during drought and in health risk situations. It also regulates the regime for the execution and financing of hydraulic infrastructure works in an episode of drought or health risk, the regime of works promoted by local entities and also executed with the collaboration of the Galician Administration. It establishes the contract of works of the supply services and the legal regime of the supply services. Furthermore, the actions identified as necessary to ensure supply must be carried out. The Galician Hydraulic Administration, for its part, will collaborate in the assessment of risks, in the development of measures and, in the event of non-compliance, where the municipalities do not do so, can act subsidiaryly in order to ensure the supply of water to the population, and the health authority is also empowered through this law to carry out the appropriate controls on the quality of water in the various supply infrastructures. The functions of the Galicia Water Board are also implemented and measures related to the ecological flow regime are regulated, the use of water from sewage treatment plants and the redistribution of resources from regulated coves, and other specific requirements for the guarantee of supply. Public administrations responsible for urban supply systems are required to carry out audits and action plans on losses in the supply network with the aim of minimizing them. Some articles in the Water Law are modified so that these losses are also incorporated into the water cannon configuration in order to increase efficiency in the management of the supply network. Increasing efficiency in network management is what you call punitive measures. And we can't admit it, because, in addition, what you say is that a deterrent mechanism is established to promote responsible use of water and to contribute to efficient use of the resource. The aim is to place the water leaks of the supply networks below 20% compared to the estimated 40% of the current losses. Mr Bará, this is a real supply policy. Look if it's to reduce 20%, 20%, the water leaks in the supply grid! The law states that it will be mandatory to have flow-approved counters both at water catch points and at supply points. These counters are essential mechanisms to know the losses of the network and to act and prepare us for extreme situations. You ask for wider deadlines for the installation of counters, but this measure has been dealt with in particular with the Fegamp, and with the rest of the water sector agents, and the deadlines have been listened to and adapted according to their demands and proposals. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Trenor. We turn to the parliamentary groups to define the amendments kept by the other groups. Mr Rodríguez Estévez has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u18	Thank you again, President. Welcome to this House. The guests. "Participative process that turns into a show." Mr. Trenor, a participatory process is a participatory process, it's a process to provide ideas, to provide solutions, it's not that it becomes a show. What you can't publish is something in a newsletter without anyone finding out. And that's for you, because it's a participatory process. We see in this law, in this project, business. And you turned our water right into a business. They allowed with the approval of the Water Law that private companies had charged for this human and basic right to life. We have to make responsible use of water, of course, but water is a public good, it is a good of its own nature, and therefore cannot be a business object for any kind of company. Besides, water must be a good thing for people's lives, for animals and for society, and that right is not shielded by this law. In time, we denounce that one can't say by law that it's a company — private law — that he's going to manage a basic resource for life as water itself can be. And when we talk about privatizing, it's not that you privatize supply or debugging or a service — which we're not in favour of that either — is that here we're talking about privatizing the very element itself, which is water. And that's the really serious thing. In other words, it privatizes itself, it gives services of exploitation and recovery about the use of rain water or sea water, and we think this is truly amazing. You're talking about this isn't a sectarian law. In 2012 a decree was issued that the regulation of the water canon and the greening coefficient for public waste water purification systems was approved. Even though the president of the Union himself, Mr Feijóo, announced on his day that the holders of private wells and betrays would be exempt and that there would also be exclusion from the water canon for agricultural purposes, it has been shown that the Union and its President lied again on this issue, because we see how some farmers had to put the key because they didn't pay these cannons. In this law we are debating today we also find important omissions that should be very present, such as mining, which compromise future generations' access to this resource. The extractive activity of transformation of geological resources, and particularly mining, also consumes large amounts of water and there's no evidence here that I'm being added to this law. The hydraulic fracture is an activity on water that is one of the biggest land pollution attacks and aquifers in our country. There are no larger engravings in this law either. And there are more cases, but, in short, little is said in this law than it has to be mandatory, or sanctions, for companies that carry on this type of activity in our country. Water is a heritage of communities, peoples and humanity, of nature. It's not a commodity. And you, again, come here to do business. That's why, from En Marea, apart from what we're going to vote against, we're going to defend whenever water management must always stay in public space, that is, in community space. And this will be done with participation, equity and social control. Water can't be a business, and the organizing principle must be cost recovery, the cost must be impacted on the consumer. And the collection must be intended for water management with the aim of making more effective use, so as to reduce its cost of obtaining, distributing and processing; but not to benefit businesses. For his band, Galician waters must have sufficient technical capacity and not depend on almost all their management of expensive and external technical assistance. In addition, within Galician waters, we also think that quality control functions should be separated from water and hydrological planning. Here is how much budget was left unexecuted. That's what we think is very serious. We can't come here wanting to pass a law when then the Union itself doesn't execute it, doesn't meet its economic obligations. We think that Junta should also modify the regulatory framework that regulates water, and it must design a multi-annual sanitation plan that combines different technological solutions for environmental care of rivers and rivers in Greece. And another solution that we weigh would also be very positive would be to launch a campaign for conservation and use...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u19	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u20	...of the public sources, of the thousands and thousands of public sources that we have scattered throughout our country. In short, we think that today we have lost an important opportunity to move forward towards the remunicipalization of water supply services. In our country, leave all management to Galician waters. But the new law is an absolute aberration that goes against human rights, because water is a human right, as established by the UN itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u21	Thank you very much. You have the floor for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará Torres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u22	Do we agree with the need for a new law? We could be, but not like that. Because we've already told them that we should first sign the local water pact, which has not been signed, and reach an agreement with all the administrations that have jurisdiction in this area. First, we should update the Dry Plan, which is 2010. We haven't updated this plan for nine years when there's a drought context and a climate-related threat context. That would have to be done before. The creation of the Water Sustainable Use Council would have to be done first. We'd have to make a Greek supply plan first. All these issues should be worked out and discussed before, in Galicia the new water culture and the Water Framework Directive, which speaks of the need to preserve, conserve and protect resources. And the resources are the rivers, the lakes, the wetlands that are unprotected, which are contaminated, Mr. Trenor. And they didn't. That directive and that new water culture also say that we have to study and analyze what resources are available, what surface water and what groundwater is, and how we have to manage them to be sustainable resources. And there is also a need to make strategies to reduce consumption, to save water consumption, which you don't propose in this text; just like re-use measures of used water, which is also a resource that needs to be taken advantage of and which is being shaken. And you, as we told you, don't take the threats from climate change into account, because that reality doesn't even appear mentioned in the law. And that has to do with the needs for human supply, but also with the needs for water consumption for economic activities, for agriculture, for profit, for industry. We have seen in recent years critical episodes of lack of resources that put crops at risk or the operation of livestock farms at risk. And you didn't think about this either. It is a law that is focused solely on a question — which, by the way, could be resolved otherwise — which is the reduction of losses below 20%. By the way, they disagree with what they put in the 2030 Circular Economics Programme, which set this target by the year 2030. It turns out that in this law they set a three-year deadline with the subsequent threat of fines for those who don't buy it, and that deadline is for both the Town Councils and the betrays of neighbouring waters. You don't know if you live in another world, if you don't know the reality of the country, or if you think this is a viable goal. We already know the funding gaps that the municipalities have and how you are constantly overloading them with new competences. But the neighboring betrayals have no means to be able to address in three years all these obligations that you impose on them by this law. With regard to participation and that the hearing procedure provided for in the Parliament's Rules of Procedure could not be done because there were prior agreements that could not be skipped, we also read the documentation of the processing of this law, we also read the debate that was held at the Galician Waters Board — because there is no Waters Sustainable Use Council. And we know what the representatives of the Fegamp said there, what the representatives of Coxapo said, what representatives of the Gestapo said, and the objections they put there. In any case, this is a process that has to do with dialogue, with the participation that the Executive has established with the social partners. But here we are in the Lexislativo, and the Lexislativo, after that process that the Executive does, has the capacity, power, the obligation and the need for parliamentary groups to debate with all the social partners and to listen to them. And you guys took that chance because you have an allergy to democracy and participation. [[Applause]] And with regard to competences, what you want with this law is to go over municipal competences; on the one hand, to pass obligations and expenses, and then to go over municipal competences. Because this law, among other issues, is an answer to what happened with Eiras two years ago, that you were unable to do what you wanted and now put a law to make it pass over municipal competences and even what it is put into municipal management plans, which allows you to skip this law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u23	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u24	And you'll tell me how they're going to solve, by the way, the supply case from Eiras to Vilaboa, Soutomairo, Vigo, the Roundup, the Moaña...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u25	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u26	...or Cangas, and who's going to handle loss management, because it's a network that provides all these municipalities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u27	Thank you very much, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u28	We think there's more than enough reasons not to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u29	Thank you very much. For the Joint Left Group, Mr. Cal Ogango has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u30	Thank you, President. We, in our votes, are going to vote in favour of the amendments of all opposition groups, even though we have nuances and some differences with some questions. But we will vote in favour of all and vote against the amendments of the People's Party. Our amendments, which the People's Party could not accept, have focused on the necessary new water culture and the necessary hydrological transition, to comply with the Water Framework Directive and with water legislation, which prioritizes preserving the resource and the precautionary principle. They say they can't accept them. Because a negationist law, of course, cannot accept these issues. You say I'm exaggerating, just like Aznar said the other day that we're very alarmist. But, of course, Mr. Aznar was defending Endesa's interests, the most carbon-threatening company in Galicia and the state. I don't know what interests you defend by saying I'm overreacting. And, of course, you shouldn't have pulled the subject from the counselor. I don't know if he wants to laugh at us. It's just that very bad example you set. Do you know which exhibitor is talking about the water conservation advisor? You know where the exhibitor is, don't you? He's at the Suez Group exhibitor, the world's leading privatization agent. Those are the ones you understand, those are the ones you understand about water. They're delighted, of course, because they can keep doing business with the mercantillization of water. That's why they listen to the Counselor, because this law seems fantastic to you. Do you know who the Suez Group is? I'm going to read to you a new respect for who the advisor is talking about water: "Four Suz Group detainees within the corruption plot. The Civil Guard has detained four senior positions of the company, one of the centers of the corruption plot investigated in the "Punica Operation", in the sense that through this company the municipalities involved contracted services in exchange for awards." With these people you're meeting the Counsellor. "Sources of the investigation have indicated to EFE that the agents have arrested the directors general and commercial of the company, located in Madrid. It would be, according to the same sources, one of the companies where it would spin the entire plot of municipal and autonomic corruption investigated in the "punical operation", in which 51 people have been arrested." With these people is assembled the lady councillor and speaking of this law, a law that comes fantastic to these who mercantilize the water and do business with the water through the plots of corruption. [[Applause]] That's the example given by Mrs. Counselor and the business done by Mrs. Counselor. Look, Mr. Trenor, who's confused with law is you. We don't confuse ourselves with law, who is confused with law is you. For you, it's never a good time to face climate change, for you, it's never a good time to make laws that affect the main climate change affector vector, like water. And they think it's not time to apply the precautionary principle or apply the existing legislation. Precisely the existing law, and even the Greek law, as you said, has a literality acceptable to that question. But you come now, with this law, taking a step back, with a step back in that literality, which will serve them to, when there is a problem of supply, step on the law that if you have a literality that could be more chord and use this, which is totally aggressive. Look, Mr. Trenor, with you, of course, there is no solution to climate change, there is no solution. You're part of the problem and that's why you get together with those who're doing business with the problems of climate change. So, of course, we have no confidence. When we took the initiative, all the initiatives were for the law to really serve something. We don't make any other amendments. That's why you didn't accept any. We focused on that issue that seemed fundamental to us, we didn't want to stop on other issues. And you have not accepted nor will you accept nor will you apply all these precautionary principles. They won't even comply with the regulations... nor will they assume the reality of climate change. [[Intelligible.]] The only hope we have, of course, is that within a year you no longer rule and there is a government that takes climate change seriously, that it is not a negationist and that it solves people's problems. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Cal Ogong. Mr Álvarez Martínez has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u32	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President. Again, Mr. Trenor, as you have already been told with greater or lesser virulence, or even intensity, on the part of the spokesmen who preceded me, we will miss out on a historic opportunity to make a law with a plan, with a vision, wider than this one. I've already told you in my first intervention that it's a law that systematically distrusts local administrations. And besides, you have a double message. On the one hand, they always invoke the Law as the basis of local regimes, local autonomy, local competences, but the reality, you know, as any government knows, is that there are certain actions that must be declared of public interest because they transcend the funding capacity of local entities themselves. And you have refused, in the amendments tabled by this parliamentary group, to include in this legal text, this bill, not only the one concerning a minimum financing, a minimum provision of quantities necessary to assist these local administrations, leaving virtually all competition in the hands of provincial deputies, who are also part of that local regime-based environment — as is true, we never discuss it. But, I insist, you know perfectly well that it is necessary for the complicity and collaboration of self-governments, or, in some cases, the Government of the State itself, to carry out certain actions. You also refuse to publicly plan the necessary actions, you refuse to talk about funding for local administrations; and therefore, I insist, we will see in the future, as I said earlier, all the changes that will be necessary. Because, as we have just remembered, when it is established in the text itself that, once it comes into force and within a maximum horizon of three years, it will be necessary to have all the necessary actions to reduce to the level of 20% the losses on supply networks, on the other hand you, in a macro-planning document, of macro-bonysm, develop a completely different time horizon, which exceeds in seven years that horizon that you place in this law. So there's a more relevant lack of agreement here between the political intent and the intention of the Government, which is in a great hurry to bring forward a legislative text with periods that are going to be impossible to comply with. And with regard to the proposals for amendments maintained by the rest of the parliamentary groups, our group has asked — with agreement and, of course, with the permission of the rest of the proposed groups — for a separate vote of a series of amendments, since we believe that they would either require a deeper debate or even that some of these amendments could form part of another normative context other than this one in which we are. And, in short, because I obviously don't have time, but it does seem questionable to us that it is eliminated from the definition of the drought episode that relates to a certain risk of resource reduction. There is one that proposes that the Water Law should be applied as an alternative and not as part of the common framework of this legislation. Some propose the elimination of sanctions in periods of normality, except in cases of companies that contaminate it. They are concerned that there is a necessary space for consensus and meeting with neighbouring communities that have carried out the necessary actions to have a supply network that depends on them and on what is true there is important uncertainty, both in terms of supply and in terms of their own health control over the quality of these waters, but that the neighbouring communities are introduced on an equal footing with public administrations; or that they propose that the opinion of the communities of water and the neighboring betray communities be respected. We think this is questionable because we are obviously starting from the conception — which I believe is shared by all parliamentary groups — that water is a common good; therefore, there can be no scenario in which there is no payment of what can be agreed upon for that common good. It is also requested in some amendments to the transfer to the Board of Competencies on current hydrographic confederations. There's a problem, of course, not only of self-government horizons but of how these shells would remain once defined, because they are inter-Community. And there are others, such as linking monoculture and fire defense policy within this law. There is, of course, an important link between that existence of certain monocultures and forest fires in water policy, but we believe that this would be part of another legislative text.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u33	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u34	It's over, Mr. President. And there is something we are particularly concerned about, because it links the authorization of new urban settlements to the existence of water, which seems reasonable, but that proposal does not distinguish whether this urban settlement is the result of an urban situation or, for example, social housing. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez. Mr Trenor López has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u36	Yes, ladies. I want, first of all, to thank the work of most of the opposition voices. They've all done a job -- well, let's all say -- according to their possibilities, their knowledge and their abilities. In that sense, I would like to thank all the spokesmen who had made it possible to reach some kind of agreement. [[Strong murmurers.]] But, Mr. Cal, all you had from this law was the applause of your group. He's the only one. He's the only one. They applauded him for plagiarizing Pedro Arrojo's text. They applauded him for offending, for throwing insurrections in this House. They applauded you for your inability to bring something good to Galicia, and they applauded you who had not been able to reach any point according to the party of the majority, which represents most of the Greeks. That's the only thing you'll get from this House, the applause. [[Applause]] Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to pass a law that will ensure the supply of water to the population, reduce the vulnerability of systems and protect public health from adverse situations such as drought. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe you have confused a law for situations of extreme drought emergency, as is the case, with situations of normal supply, where procedures for action must be different. A drought is an extraordinary situation that requires extraordinary actions, as defined by the law itself, along with the corresponding prevention and planning of how it can be to avoid losses in networks and drought plans. You seem to have deliberately ignored the figure of hydrological planning, which is the maximum exponent of planning and includes planning and sanitation and supply targets. This hydrological planning is in effect, in effect, in permanent review. Every six years, each plan changes and adapts to the new reality. This is also what we are told from Europe and the state regulatory framework, and for its elaboration, a great effort is made to public and social participation. Ladies and gentlemen, this law is not intended to sanction or establish any punitive procedure, the only thing that is established are obligations to take measures that should be largely executed already, and it is only seeking to achieve an improvement in management that has an impact on the achievement of environmental targets; measures that have to be implemented already, such as the duty that all municipalities or entities holding supply systems with more than 20,000 inhabitants have a plan of emergency in the face of drought. Ladies and gentlemen, this rule also clarifys the responsibilities of each administration and the protocols of action between the different warning scenarios for drought or health risk. Finally, and by the way, ladies and gentlemen, the text provides the legal tools necessary to act swiftly in situations that compromise water supply. In this way, any measures needed to be taken in a state of drought or health risk will involve the declaration of public utility, the need for urgent occupation of land and will prevail over other regulations, because priority, ladies and gentlemen, is the supply of our population. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Trenor. Let's move on to the second point. Debate on the Proposal for a Law to Present Before the Congress of Deputies, by the G.P. Joint, amending Law 37/1992 of 28 December 1992 on value added tax
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u38	For the presentation of the non-law proposal by the Joint Group, Mrs Vázquez Verao has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u39	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all, too, the guests who are here today. We frame this proposal in the framework of equality, since women, as a result of that, use certain hygiene products which often make up an important economic disbursement. So we say it's a question of equality because we start from a basic inequality because we're women. It's social justice that these women's hygiene products that we use are recorded with the over-reduced type of 4% EVI, compared to the current 10% reduction. This, in addition, in a context not only of not exceeding the wage gap, of that differential income that women average have in relation to men, but of aggravating it. The pay gap has grown since 2014, which continues in pensions. Therefore, we women bear greater economic burden with regard to these products of intimate hygiene by merely being biologically women, and at the same time we have a situation, with regard to levels of poverty and levels of wage income, which are lower than average men. It is a debate that is taking place at European level, the reduction of VAT rates in female hyxine products, and we believe there is a social consensus on this measure. It was also in Congress with a majority, and other cameras have urged the state government to legislate in the same sense, like the Valencian Courts, who approved an LNP in which financial machismo was mentioned. So we're talking about products -- if we're talking strictly about the ones used for menstruation -- that we use women about thirty-five or forty years on average, and in many cases they can have very high costs per month. Just talking about these, we sometimes talk about 20 euros a month, which for girls or unemployed people, or people at risk of social exclusion, are very high costs. There's an international plan study in which one in ten British girls between 14 and 20 years old cannot buy handcuffs and compresses, and that half of them lost a class day because of menstruation, data that confirm a reality -- this organization -- observed by teachers in the country. In addition, right here in the Spanish State, there are associations of solidarity that warn of the need for compresses and tampons by families with limited resources. Sign it, for example, Messengers of Peace, who are one of the most demanding products in this kind of solidarity associations. It is thus beginning to talk about menstrual poverty to define this phenomenon, linked, it is true, too, to a persistent taboo on menstruation, to the lack of sexual education, and it is also worth pointing out here that this situation is particularly serious in impoverished countries. But it's not only this differential during the fertile stage as to the use of intimate hygiene products, but this differential use also continues in older women, in case of urine loss in old age. So, since a woman has her menarchy to the end of life, she uses many more products of intimate hygiene than men, it's evidence, and therefore this proposal to reduce the VAT of these products is of social justice and equality, and we consider it to have a broad social consensus. In fact, the budgets negotiated between PSOE and UN We can for past legislation — I don't know how many legislations we have taken — contained this provision, which had already been transferred even to the European Union, collected the reduction of the burden on women's hygiene products in the interest of a taxation at the service of equality between women and men, and where for the first time a vision of gender is introduced with the lower VAT for women's hygiene products. [[Laughter]] This was literal. He said it's a measure, therefore, with a social consensus and allowed by the rules of the European Union since 2007. What we propose with our proposal is to directly amend the law and bring to Congress a proposal to amend Law 37/1992, the value added tax, to shield this measure as structural and durable over time. It's a known measure in the European and Atlantic environment. There are states where these products are totally exempt from taxes, such as Canada, Ireland or even Australia, which also applied this tax exemption. Others have very low rates, such as France or the United Kingdom, and the Spanish State has the opportunity to move forward on that path as well. We believe, in addition, that progress should be made in the deterioration and awareness of the ecological alternatives to these products, as may be the menstrual cup, and we include them in our proposal, also recording these products with the over-reduced type, because it is a way of advancing the fight against waste and environmental sustainability. It is true that these products are one of the great generators of plastic waste in the middle. A lower cost of these, it encourages you to choose these biodegradable character options, which are usually more expensive, or for options like the menstrual cup. We included — as I said — not only compresses, buffers, savizos, which are already contemplated until now with the reduced VAT, but also new reusable products and even gels of intimate use. They're all used by women by mere seal, used with assiduousness, and it should also be taken into account, in the case of higher costs borne by women, that there are female hygienic products, let's put by chance this kind of ice cream, which costs more than its male equivalent by merely being made for women. Large companies take advantage of the greater need for women's use of hygiene products to raise their costs, is the one known as a pink rate, which is being analysed. The measure to reduce VE of female hygiene products certainly has a very small economic impact on the global level, but an important positive return, especially for middle and low-income women and for well-being and health. The estimates in these budgets were around 18 or 19 million euros, which is 0.03 % of VAT revenue in 2017. It's certainly very little, but it can be a social return for women with lower incomes. We take advantage of the modification that involves passing from the reduced EVI to the over-reduced these products for Article 6b), where they were included, also specifically including with reduced engraving, and thus determines it, both male and female condoms. It's very simple on our proposal, I'm not going to use the fifteen minutes. Understanding that female hygiene products are of primary need. I understand that there is inequality in access to them because it is mandatory for women as women, we believe that the application of tax can therefore be regarded as discriminatory, so that the recording of these products should be in the same rank as others of the first need. However, we consider it to be an insufficient measure, because it should also lead to measures such as the free distribution of such products between girls in educational centres and institutes, and, of course, to address what is the phenomenon of menstrual poverty in women at risk of exclusion and to meet this demand detected by solidarity associations, but we think it is a fair measure, which compensates this inequality of departure in the differential use of hygiene products by men and women, and we expect the approval of the House.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u40	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez Verao. The rest of the parliamentary groups have the floor, representing the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u41	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. From the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, of course, we are going to vote in favour of this Joint Group initiative because it is a proposal with which we agree to 100 percent and we have already brought it to this House on repeated occasions. We have said it many times, and today we want to insist again: the inequality that we suffer from women in today's society has a lot of costs, it is given in many areas, but there is one that is absolutely elementary and that affects everyone else, which is economic, is a determining area. And when we talk about economics, we also talk about tax policy. We cannot deny that he has a deeply patriarchal bias and that he has a clear gender bias in examples like what he presents today. In addition, it must be borne in mind that it is discrimination above other discrimination. As Mrs Verao also said, it is an added discrimination on the economic inequality that already falls more directly on women, because there is still a lot to work on for that legitimate equality to be translated into real equality, and we have numerous examples, such as wage discrimination. It must be remembered that the Welsh workers charge an average of nearly 5,000 euros less per year than men, a wage gap that, despite many years of illegal, is not only vigilant, but also growing. Since 2009, this wage gap between men and women in our country has already increased by 1,000 euros, a strong increase above 22%. We also have a gap in our country with the rest of the state. It must be remembered that the Italian workers earn a wage of up to 1,700 euros less than the state measure, and to this we must add other economic consequences such as those derived from occupying us, mostly the partial schedules, we are the ones that, mostly, we welcome the reductions in the daytime or surpluses by conciliation, and we could continue to put many more examples. The conclusion is simple, this is the broth that makes us then talk about the constant, growing and stable feminization of poverty, more than verified. We can put the data on the table in the recent Foesa report, where there was a greater feminization of poverty, especially in those homes that were supported by women, and 20 per cent in poverty, or data from the German Anti-Poverty Network itself, which places at 24.4 per cent the level of poverty risk of women in social exclusion, compared to 20.7 per cent in the case of men. I mean, we can conclude that objectively gender inequalities are directly related to this consolidation of poverty and that women's poverty stems from inequality. So to sustain an inequality through something like the EVV is to deepen on this line and it needs a correction. Besides, we're talking -- let's keep it in mind -- about a tax that's indirect in the commercial transaction; that's to say it affects everyone and all regardless of what our income level is, and that's what it does is to aggravate the situation of people who have less income. So for us this is at all unfair lights and we agree that the EVV should be the over-reduced EVV. We all understand that it's logical that a bread bar has less VAT than a bottle of whiskey or a box of tobacco. For it also lacks all sense, by an elementary question, that products necessary for us by merely being women have the same VAT that, for example, a branch of roses or a can of caviar, is an absurd and inexplicable inequality at this point. Moreover, it has already been said that throughout our lives this is a very important economic impact, for not entering into an advanced society should enter the common good and the general interest that more than half of the population has services to make our life more comfortable and hygienic, not to be something that we continue to claim in the middle of the 21st century. Not to mention the negative that it is to deepen in a differentiation which, after all, is purely biological and which contradicted the principle of non-discrimination on the basis of sex or any other personal or social condition. In any case, I also wanted to think about what this matter reminds us of two things we cannot forget, because if the situation in 2019 is this, it's for something. First, because of the uselessness of state political forces. We have already talked about these 2019 budgets, but I would like to remind you that while Mr. Rajoy was still ruling there were numerous consensuss in Congress, in those circumstances of not most absolute, on this matter. And there is also a desire of the Galician People's Party to defend this which interests all the women of Greece. Here, initiatives and consensus from other parliaments have been recalled, but I want to remember what happened in this House in the previous legislation, which precedes us all and all of us here. The former Joint Group pushed, through Carmen Iglesias Sueiro, an initiative that had the consensus last February 24, 2016. Imagine it rained ever since! In fact, two years after that agreement, of what my parliamentary group had also participated in, since there was no movement, this parliamentary group brought a new initiative to the Commission 3rd of this House, adding in addition two issues which seemed important to us: one, which the Union had submitted a report on what actions it was developing in this sense — we are still waiting for that report — and also developing, within its own competences, the promotion and information of other methods alternative to compresses, buffers and all those elements which, as it was said here, have other drawbacks. And since then we don't know a single Galician board campaign to spread and explain what it's like, for example, the menstrual cup, or to give them to younger women, who may have difficulty experimenting with these products that have an initial investment higher than a pack of compresses, and they still don't do it; something so simple and so elementary and that doesn't consist of anything from the other world either. Also in June 2018 — the new Government of the State has begun — we ask the Council of Galicia again, and in April 2019, because of this issue, having a little hope that as they are now dedicated to defending only those issues that go against the Central Government, they would also have entered into an inflated position to defend these kinds of issues more closely, but we are still waiting. And as we keep waiting, the Greek women see how our shopping list every month is bigger because we pay a barbarity for these products. I also wanted to leave a couple of reflections on the table. In what we're talking about, as in so many other things, it's not indifferent to our fiscal sovereignty either. I want to remember that, for example, the canary government — which has its particular value added tax — has been able to do this a long time ago because, precisely, it has sovereignty over its estate, its economic self-organization. This is one more aspect of our state's dependence on us. We also need to put two more questions on the table. Once this has been achieved, it is also necessary for the bodies themselves — such as the Galician Competition Council, such as CNMC itself and other state-owned and even European bodies — to ensure that the download of the VAT is not actually accompanied by an increase in the base price, because if we are not in it again. In that sense, I believe that once we get this question, another challenge we have in the future — and something was also advanced by Mrs Verao — is to dismantle that reality from the pink rate, because, indeed, capitalism is not a feminist ally, capitalism is seeking its own benefit, and today it is more than proven with studies and objective data that there are numerous products in which the female version has a much higher price than the male version. For example, consumer associations like FACUA themselves did a study on shaving machines and, of seven brands that they studied, all except two, they had a price of up to 171% more expensive in the female version than that same product for men, dealing exclusively with a different package or a different color. Ideal did the same thing about fragrances, and he indicated that 73% of the fragrances for women were more expensive. More recently, Generalitat Valenciá himself encouraged a study to present at the Sixth Congress of Feminist Economy held at the University of Valencia, in which he testified that a 7% more was the average of those products that were tested to find out what their price was for the male public or for the female public. So, in conclusion, we are going to vote in favour of this bill. We understand that it would be one more step to press from Galicia the State Government to take urgent action on this aspect, one more step to focus on this situation, and also a reminder that this is the first step of many duties...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u42	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u43	...that we are left to disassemble those little alliances that have our tax and economic system with the patriarchate. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u44	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. For the Joint Left Group, Mrs. Torregrosa Sanñudo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u45	Thank you very much and good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law tabled by the Joint Group seems to us better — to make a reflection — to seek consensus between the different groups of this House on a subject which we consider — of course — that is a necessary and indispensable issue. So much so that it has already been agreed in the Stability Programme 2019-2022 from the Central Government, and even communicated to the European Community, with the intention of making the necessary changes to the state regulation of the VAT in order to apply the over-reduced rate of 4% to the products of female personal hygiene. So, of course, from the Joint Left Group we are going to vote in favour, but not without adding that, if this proposal passes the procedure, we think that it should be completed, in any case, and that it should be more ambitious, since it seems to us excessively moderate, because little more does this agreement which has already been pending the approval of the State budgets but which is already in some way accepted, that of the over-reduced EVV.. However, it seems to us that it is an issue which is absolutely worthy of reflection of this space, of this House, because, despite affecting more than half of the population, it remains a question still considered as a taboo, as a luxury, and not as a necessity, which produces a clear discrimination on a part of society, which strikes women with psychological and functional problems and demonstrates an obvious lack of empathy. It's already beginning with the null valuation made by public administrations, both in the state and in our country. There are also no other official assessments and institutions regarding the limitations that access to menstrual hygiene products in relation to socio-economic, cultural, territorial, training, age and so on. It also seems to us that there are large gaps between what non-governmental organizations are, which show in different studies and denounce the importance and priorities they have in order to bring these kinds of products to the edges — as we have already said — of women who, unfortunately, still in our society, are from the weakest sectors, which are clearly caused by the economic gap, the wage gap and the differences in employment conditions, care and personal burdens. Among these organizations — which has been valued by the spokesperson of the Joint Group — we could talk about the Red Cross, the Spanish Poverty Network and others. However, we can see that in the statutes of the Spanish Federation of Food Banks it is not considered that such products should be distributed among the disadvantaged sectors, but that they are limited to purely food matters, even though these banks are financed from funds from the European Union and the position of the European Union in this respect is clear. Another issue that seems to us to be important is to bring the debate to this House too, as Mrs Verao pointed out, the topic of contraceptives. For us, in any case, this initiative is a part of the global initiative, of what should be proposed, since it would also be necessary for the amendment of the VAT of these products, which are also of first necessity, because — we insist — the issue of the rate of over-reduced VAT for menstrual products is already agreed as requested on this initiative, and we believe that we would have to take a step forward and be a little more courageous asking for things that have not already been asked or that have not been agreed; as was this pending agreement of the final budgets between Pedro Sánchez and the Confederal Group of the United Nations We can. So, insisting on the European theme, a non-binding proposal has already been adopted in the Eurocamera in 2017 that aims to end gender inequality and achieve a more equitable distribution of wealth between men and women through fiscal policy, because we see that fiscal policy is one of the major differences that exist and that help this gender gap that we are suffering. The absence of a gender perspective in this area, both at Community and national level, reinforces disparity in the fields, as it has already been noted here, because we are always agreeing on the same issues: employment, pensions or wealth. In addition, it is undeniable that this situation discourages the entry and permanence of women into the labour market and contributes to perpetuating heteropatrical stereotypes. In this framework, within the framework of the report on gender equality and fiscal policies of the European Union, it is condemned that menstrual hygienic products are not yet considered as basic products in all Member States, and urges all countries of the European Union to eliminate the so-called tax buffer, applying a type of VAT of 0% to their essential products. With this proposal, the European Parliament encourages Member States to promote the widespread availability of health products and to offer these menstrual hygiene products in certain public spaces such as schools, universities, shelters for homeless people, since menstrual poverty is a matter present in the Union, where 1 in 10 children cannot afford health products according to Plan International. So we insist that we have not just seen why this initiative of yours, which we support, does not take advantage to request, to make a proposal of zero VAT for both menstrual hygiene products and contraceptives, as recommended in the above report. In fact, from our group on these days, an initiative has been introduced, through Commission 4 in which, in fact, the request is to incorporate free delivery of menstrual glasses into secondary schools, in order to bring all girls into an ecological and economic alternative to menstrual products. This adds an environmental perspective — which has also been pointed out here but is not included — by incorporating the environment and the control of waste generation into a measure applied also a few months ago by the Government of Scotland, which was a pioneer in Europe, where it was already talked about and insisted on the issue of menstrual poverty and provided free of charge of menstrual hygiene products to some 400,000 children and adolescents who suffer from this type of poverty, a poverty that has always existed, but we must not be ashamed of speaking publicly. I don't have much time left, I'm going to finish. We believe that there are two aspects added that are of little importance in the proposal and that they should be strengthened, which are the socio-economic and exclusion theme and the environmental theme. On the one hand, the need to also reflect on the impact of these products on the environment and to insist on freeness; that is to say, reducing the VAT not to an over-reduced VAT, but to support a zero VAT for products that not only support the gap there and the taboo theme that continues to be menstrual hygiene, but also the issues of contraception, since it seems to us that everything that is related to a matter of need and health should not be taxed. It's over, I'll go through the replica to complete. Just saying we just commemorated the International AIDS Day. I think this is also a basic theme for re-incidence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u46	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u47	...no matter what this initiative has to do. And we insist that we be more...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u48	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u49	...valents when we bring bills to the House.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u50	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u51	Since we use the tool to be more visible, it must also be much more demanding. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u52	Thank you very much, Mrs. Torregrosa. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Porrit Lueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u53	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. One more whole, we're still talking about taxation and equality. If at the plenary session on 19 November we are debating the property tax, a direct tax which should, in principle, record the net assets of the taxable person, in the case of the much-owned Galician Union, not be charged with this minimum of EUR 700,000. Today, with this bill, we do it on the IVE. The EVV, as stated in the explanatory statement on this initiative, is a direct tax on consumption and that, in principle, as such indirect tax, we could assume that it is not the most appropriate to apply a model according to the principles of equality, generality and progressiveity set out in Article 31 of the Spanish Constitution, a model for which we have been betting since the GSP. But precisely the existence of different types of tax on the basis of the product and the service provided, makes it possible to state that the VAT can be progressive. So, for example, just like there's an over-reduced type for first-necessary products, why don't IVE go up to the chutes? Maybe we could avoid obesity problems in childhood. Or why not upload the VAT to certain products and services such as high-end vehicles, real estate of a certain size and characteristics, certain hotels, foodstuffs and drinks of higher cost? I mean, why don't we go up to the IVE to what we call luxury products? The VAT is an indirect tax and, as such, we can assume that it does not take into account the personal characteristics of the so-called passive subject, although the amendment that this bill seeks to dismantle this belief, since it affects the type of VAT to apply to female products, products that we use women for many years of our lives and products that facilitate our daily lives in a context where women are and we will continue to be — although many do not want — present in all sectors of society. So we're talking about equality and we're talking about a question of gender, of that so-called pink rate, which is as if it's called an increase in the price of the same product when it comes to a female version. It's not from our group that we're going to support this proposal, it's that it's part of our political program. This amendment was collected in the Socialist Party's election program for the general elections of April 28 this year. Regarding the pink rate, he said, we're going to address the deactivation of the pink rate, which is as if it's called the increase in the price of the same product when it comes to a female version, and we're going to reduce the VAT of female hyxine products to 4% because they are first needed articles. As Mrs Vázquez Verao has already said, it was an amendment which also appeared collected in the State General Budget Bill by 2019, published on January 16th in the Official Courts Bulletin. The project included two amendments to Article 91 of the IVE Regulatory Law, and paragraph (b) of paragraph 1.6 changed from the 10% type to tablets, buffers, protection of slips, condoms and other non-medicinal contraceptives, modification and reduction of the 10% application to condoms and other non-medicinal contraceptives. And at the same time, one paragraph 7 was added to point 2, which would be drafted as follows: the type of 4% will be applied to the following operations, which in this case would be: compresses, buffers and protect slips. And again an amendment that also appeared collected in our election program on November 10th. I share absolutely what the vocabularies said before me. This is a first step, I think we need to keep moving forward in the pursuit of equality in all areas of our lives, also in taxation. I share absolutely the need to inform girls and adolescents of the different methods that can facilitate their daily lives. So I don't know if today this amendment of Law 37/1992, which regulates the VAT, will be approved, but as soon as the progressive government of the State is formed, headed by Pedro Sánchez, this amendment, which is a question of equal taxation and social justice — because, although it is incomprehensible, women treat us as unequal in tax matters too — will take effect. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u54	Thank you very much, Mrs. Porrit. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fernández Macías has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u55	Thank you, President. Once again, we are debating in this House about the reduction in the VAT tax rate that records the products of intimate female hygiene, and, before entering my argumentation, already ahead of you, Mrs Verao, and for the rest of the opposition groups, so that they are calm, that the People's Group will vote again, as it has done so far in all these initiatives, in favour of this bill to present it to the Congress of Deputies, because it is the first-needed products, Mrs Porrit, and cannot be compared to other products, as you mentioned, as, for example, the shakes. The fact that we're talking about this again has a largely negative connotation, because this means that today's demand has not yet been achieved, as necessary as it is for us women, if it becomes a reality today. But to see something positive, if it is possible in this case and in this respect, I would like to point out that at least on these very important issues the parliamentary groups of this House are in keeping with the circumstances and we are all able to agree, as we have demonstrated on every occasion that this initiative has come to this House, whether in full or in commission, and how it seems that it will also be on this occasion. And above all, it seems very remarkable to me that we are able to agree to fight against these kinds of barriers that create inequality for women. Precisely on the basis of the achievement of real gender equality, and with regard to this bill, the Galician Union has already pronounced favourably on this initiative, as it is demonstrated by the General Secretariat of Equality Impact Report, in which it says — and I quote it textually — that the amendment of Law 37/1992 on value added tax, to apply the reduced burden of 10% on female condoms and the super-reduced burden of 4% on female hygiene products, has a positive impact from the point of view of achieving gender equality, as it will eliminate a tax burden that has so far been borne by women in the purchase of such products. We also see that it is true that this achievement of gender equality is present in many other political areas. For example, at European level we have the Treaty of the Community, where the need to incorporate this gender perspective into all public policies is made clear, in order to recognize equality between men and women as a right of cross-border scope to the whole of the European Community's planning and policies. On the other hand, at the state level we also have organic law 3/2007, for the effective equality of men and women. But, however, and despite the regulation in all these areas, we see that this social demand has not yet been realized, which succeeds once and for all in ending this discriminatory situation for women. Even so, and being in agreement at the bottom of the matter with all the parliamentary groups of the opposition, I think it is necessary to make a small chronology of both the tax and the initiative in this House, in order to put an end to certain aspects that are obvious and because it is not all good to criticize the People's Party. In 2002, the women's intimate hygiene products were recorded at a general tax rate, which was 16%. Well, in that same year of 2002 is when you got down to a 7% reduced tax rate, and for your information, if you don't know or want to make it obvious, this fall was carried out by a government of the People's Party. It's true that it's not enough, but it's a very important first step — I repeat — by the People's Party, they like it or they don't like it. [[Applause]] In recent years, this reduced rate has increased from 7% to 10% as a result of the rise in all types of taxes due to the economic crisis. As for the course of the initiative in this Parliament, in 2016 a non-law proposal was presented for its full debate, in which the Galician Union was urged to negotiate with the State, which was adopted unanimously. Madam President, unanimously, including the People's Party and myself, I was the spokesman for that debate. The central government of this agreement has therefore been transferred to the Fairy Secretariat, as the Secretary General of Equality has already commented to him. And finally, in 2018, Commission 3rd also brought this demand for the Galician Nationalist Block, which, according to the Directorate-General for Parliamentary Relations, had no response to any of these requests and instances. But what we have to say, Mrs Presas, is that, in ruling the People's Party, during the last term of our party, the Women's Institute has already conducted several studies on this situation of discrimination and its director has already decided to draw a contract to make an impact study in this regard. So it was when the motion of censure arrived, and, curiously, after that motion, in July 2018, the Socialist Party established this same measure, which had already been approved and which was to be brought forward by the People's Party in its road map, along with the possible reduction of the tax. Whether it was, by chance or by chance, the fact is that today we are still unable to solve this kind of problem that we consider essential and fundamental from the People's Party. Mrs. Presas also says that the Galician Union does nothing. Hey! The Council of Galicia, in the last non-legislation motion tabled by you in Commission 3a, has transferred this agreement to the Central Government, and if nothing is known, it is because the Central Government has not given any answer. And the only information the General Secretary of Equality in commission gave you was the collection through the Journal of Sessions, because that progressive government of what Mrs. Porrit was talking about was unable to give any answer to this aspect. [[Applause]] Moreover, the Galician People's Party has already taken this measure into consideration, as it was specified in our 2016 electoral programme, where it was said — and I quote textually —: "We will support and ask the Government of Spain, as we have done in the past legislation, to lower the VAT of glut free products, the products of intimate female hygiene and the leathers of children and children are born." So, and as we have demonstrated on previous occasions, the People's Party is in favour of eliminating this discrimination. On the one hand, modify — as is said in this bill — Article 91 to include female condoms specifically reduced by 10%, as Mrs Verao said. And on the other hand, add a new seventh ordinal also in Article 91 to include among the products of the over-reduced type of 4% the products of feminine intimate hygiene, those that were and also all those that are named in this bill. The People's Group will, however, vote in favour of taking this proposal into consideration, because we consider it to be just and absolutely necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u56	Thank you very much, Mrs. Fernández Macías. Mr Vázquez Verao has the floor for the reply of the non-legislative proposal by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u57	We welcome and thank the support of the groups for this proposal, because it seems fundamental to us that it goes in the form of a bill so that the Welsh House exercises its ability to propose amendments to state laws and because, as many of the speakers have said, it is a first step, a minimum agreement, to put this definitely in the agenda. Because even if there are consensus on this measure, it is true that it has not yet been applied. Personally, I hope that there will be government before the process of this law is discussed in Congress, but the fact is that we have not been making any progress in this direction for years, and, by appealing to the consensus in this chamber, I believe that it should be in Congress to the same extent. In the process and in the debate we can and should debate issues such as the idea of walking towards this reduction in taxation of certain products, in the question of condoms and leathers, which is tremendous what they cost each month those recorded leathers 21% to the most disadvantaged families. But we consider this progress important, in a context of questioning by certain political forces and certain social speakers of the existence of Machism, and that this chamber has an agreement to say that the VAT tax is discriminatory because it is imposing on women, that by simply being women we use women's hygienic products with much greater assiduity for much of our lives, that we have that differential. We also insist — as all speakers have already done — that we also need to take into account the global framework of higher sexual and hygienic-health education on the menstrual cycle in the field of education, distribution in educational centres of these products and also use this legal amendment as a way to encourage the wagering for sustainable alternatives, which is something possible. Finally, we are grateful that this House again recognizes that there is discrimination, this time in the form of a proposal for a legislative amendment, that there is discrimination against women because of the fact that IVE is imposed on women's hygiene products, and we hope that this, sooner than later, will be carried out within the framework of the State. [[Applause]] Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u58	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez Verao. We shall now proceed to the vote on the legislative texts. We begin by voting on the amendments maintained and the Ditame issued by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the draft law on measures to guarantee supply in drought and health risk situations. There is a request from the Socialist Group to separate some of the amendments that remain alive, the rest of the groups made no such request. So we started with the amendments of the Joint Parliamentary Group, from which we separated in our first vote, at the request of the Socialist Group, to 3, to 6, to 11, to 15, to 18, to 19, to 21 and 27. Let us vote first on these amendments. Vote for Amendments 3, 6, 11, 15, 18, 19, 21 and 27 G.P. Jointly with the draft law on measures to guarantee supply in drought and health risk situations, not incorporated into the Commission's opinion. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 39; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u59	We are now voting on the remaining amendments to the Joint Parliamentary Group. Voting G.P. amendments. Jointly with the draft law on measures to guarantee supply in drought and health risk situations, except those already voted on, not incorporated in the Commission's opinion. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u60	We are now moving on to the amendments of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, and there is also a request to make two groups. We voted separately, firstly, Amendments 15, 22, 29, 31, 33 and 34. Vote for Amendments Nos 15, 22, 29, 31, 33 and 34 G.P. from the Galego Nationalist Block to the draft law on measures to guarantee supply in drought and health risk situations, not incorporated into the commission's dictatorship. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 39; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u61	And now we've voted on the remaining amendments that kept the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block alive. Voting of amendments G.P. from the Galego Nationalist Block to the draft law on measures to guarantee supply in drought and health risk situations, except those already voted, not incorporated in the Commission's ruling. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u62	We are now passing on to the amendments of the Joint Parliamentary Group on the Left. There is also a request to separate in this case four amendments, which are the ones we voted for in the first place: 11, 15, 17 and 18. Vote for Amendments Nos 11, 15, 17 and 18 G.P. Joint Left Group to the Draft Law on measures to guarantee supply in drought and health risk situations, not incorporated into the Commission's mandate. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 39; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u63	And now we're voting on the rest of the amendments from the Joint Left Group that I kept alive. Voting G.P. amendments. Joint Left Group to the Draft Law on measures to guarantee supply in drought and health risk situations, except those already voted on, not incorporated in the Commission's opinion. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u64	And now we are voting on all the amendments that kept the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia alive. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Galician Socialists to the draft law on measures to guarantee supply in drought and health risk situations, not incorporated into the Commission's dictatorship. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u65	Now we have to vote for the committee's ruling. If so, with approved amendments incorporated. As no one has been approved, we have just voted for the committee's ruling. Ditame's vote, issued by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the draft law on measures to guarantee supply in drought and health risk situations. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes against, 31. The voting is positive. This measure is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u66	We shall now proceed to the vote on the adoption of the bill to present before the Congress of Members of the Joint Parliamentary Group. Voting of the consideration of the Bill to present before the Congress of Deputies, of the G.P. Joint, amending Law 37/1992 of 28 December 1992 on value added tax. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The result of the vote is negative. The adoption of this non-legislative proposal is therefore approved by 71 votes in favour, and it will continue its parliamentary process.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u67	We move on to the next item on the agenda, from appearances. The opinion of Mrs. Sea advisor, on his own request, to report the line of work towards the negotiation of TACs and quotas by 2020
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u68	The sea councillor, Mrs. Quintana Carballo, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. I compare today in this Parliament to see a guest in what our fleet and our overall maritime-fishing structure play a great deal. The definition and setting of TACs and quotas for 2020 is crucial for their future, and especially for their sustainability. It is quite true that every year this month of December the appointment with the Council of Ministers for Fisheries of the European Union is a fundamental fact for the maintenance of fishing activity, but this year, because of several circumstances which I shall report immediately, it seems to be a quote highlighting its importance. In this sense, it is key to incorporate into this decision-making process an element that for Galicia and for its fisheries sector constitutes the key to the vault that supports the bridge for the future of fishing. I am telling you about the importance of recognizing the necessary balance between the environmental, social and economic aspects of fisheries. If we take on a temporary perspective the biological evolution of fisheries resources in the Atlantic, we see that since 2003 global biomass has recovered by 36% and that since the entry into force of the current common fisheries policy there has been a situation where 78% of quotas are set at maximum sustainable yield levels. But now we understand that those who are at risk are the social and economic dimensions of fishing, and in this sense we must work, seeking to achieve economic terms that support viability and a population of sustainable fishermen. I mean, we have to achieve a minimum sustainable yield in the economy and in employment. We have a basic question to assume before we point out that we are playing and how we are playing that future by 2020, the approach with which we are dealing with this decision-making process in which the figures of our fishing opportunities will be marked. We are talking about a situation where there is a proposal in which 40 of the 72 TACs for the Atlantic are lowered by the figures for this year and in which we have a precedent, that of the definition of the Baltic TACs, where the cuts, despite not being approved to our area, have been drastic and unachievable. The entry into force of the obligation of landing causes us not only to play the future in the target species, but also in those secondary species for our fleet and even in a special way in those where we didn't even have quota before, but which are part of, even if they are small or anecdotal figures, of the composition of catches. This difficult starting situation, which points to us in the European Commission's proposal on total allowable catch and quota quotas by 2020, is still negative, is not definitive. To try to reverse this proposal and bring clearly positive results we must work, and we are working, because much of that positive outcome has to start long before the European ministerial appointment. It's not an hour job or a Persian merchant, as some think, but the fruit of a lot of work before those months and this year. This work has for us three fundamental keys: the first is to maintain a basis for co-governance and the participation and involvement of the sector. Both are practised in Galicia and exemplified in two facts, such as, for co-governance, the unanimous approval by the Galician Ditam Fisheries Council on the Commission communication on the situation of the common fisheries policy and the consultation on fishing opportunities for 2020. In addition, this necessary involvement of the sector is reflected in the development of fishing entities and in the adoption by the same sectoral representative body of the report which highlights the allocation of administrative management rules on the evolution of the cicada fishing in the Northwest Cantabria. The second key is to make scientific and technical arguments the basis for all actions before Madrid and Brussels. That is why we have already been there by the hands of the sector with reports and economic impact studies to defend our fish, peas and cockroaches, and that is why we will again take to the Consultative Council for Community Affairs a document in which, on the basis of the analysis of various areas, we support our demands for this decision-making process. The third key is to maintain loyalty and unity of action with the central government and the other autonomous communities. We know that in order to succeed, we have to do a joint work. That's why, and on condition that Galicia maintains as a representative of autonomy, we know that only that respect that we demand is reciprocal is the adherent element in forging action against Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said before, we're in the middle of a difficult year and in which we play a lot. The proposal which the European Commission made weeks ago is substantially negative, both at the general level and in relation specifically to the TACs in which Spain, and consequently Galicia, is involved. Of the 72 that are established for the Atlantic and the North Sea only 13 grow, in 19 cases the figures of last year are maintained and in 40 cases the quotas conquer cuts, which will constitute, as you will understand, a hard starting point on what to negotiate. Even in many cases we still have no proposal for encryption as to whether they are subject to a negotiation with Norway or within NEAFC, which affects the entire North-East Atlantic, if we already have some good news like the one from the top of the yard quota by 41% or to recommend the rise of the lirium by 2%. In the case of quotas for Spain, of the 36 main TACs available to us, we have to take into account that for 7 we propose an increase, between which we account for the lirium and that of the jarda - already known, but officially not yet reported - in 4 we would keep the TACs with respect to those of 2019 and in 18 we propose a discount, some of which, as in the case of the jurelo or the fish, affects the most important species in our lengths both in billing and in discharge. I mean, this proposal doubles the cuts and divides the increments by half with respect to last year. There would be a lack of knowledge of seven proposals, which have a respectable impact on the width or mouth, both in the Cantabrian and in the Fistra area south, and on the Grand Sun's cock, especially as it refers to what could be captured in the Porcupine bank area. So it's a proposal that, as far as we can see, has more shadows than lights. Shadows because they propose the most prominent to reduce the fish quota by 20% in the south, by 19% the fish quota in the Great Sun, to cut the interest rate by 41% between Fistra and the Gulf of Biscay, and by 50% between Fistra and the Gulf of Cadiz, and to keep the cock in the Cantabria, a decision that is shocking to the reports we have, which show that the species' situation is better than Brussels knows. And light is because it proposes to increase by 8% the toad fish in the Gulf of Biscay and by 7% of this species in the west of Ireland and by 12% the rapper in iberian waters and by 3% in the Great Sun. The quota of the garden is not included in the proposal, but we know of good new exits from the framework of the North-East Atlantic Fisheries Commission, NEAFC. In the case of fish, as part of the scientific recommendation, we see how there are serious discrepancies in this proposal, because in the case of fish in the north it establishes, despite recognizing the ICES that biomass has increased since 2006 and that fishing mortality has significantly decreased between the years 2005 and 2012, which remains stable and below the maximum sustainable yield since then. In addition, in the case of Cantabrian fish, we see how there are alternatives within the ICES report where a clearly positive result could be achieved, with an increase in biomass by 50%, adjusting much less the quota or even keeping almost stable to that of last year. With these questions on the table and taking into account that there is no plan to increase fishing effort, Galicia has carried out reports pointing to the high social impact that these cuts would have on fish quotas, the first species in billing on our shores. Since the Council there has been an analysis of the economic impact of an average reduction of 20%, with this document pointing out the importance of affecting the North-West Cantabrian and Great Sun fleet in 15 million euros, which amounts to 22.8 million if we take the total billing of the lengths. Going further, it is easily observable that the specific impacts show that we are not faced with a uniformly distributed impact, but we see how severe cuts exist in the lengths and fleets like those of the Navy, as more than 70% of the minority would suffer Burela and Celero. In addition, we note with concern the segment of the smaller arts, where 128 ships of the 3,900 that we have accumulate 90% of the discharges of that modality and multiply by 19 the average impact of this cut in the craft fleet. There would also be impact on the steering wheel and the length of the background, because they have fish as a fundamental species and could accumulate a 53% cut since 2015. In the case of the jury, we have to look separately at the TACs in which Galicia fishing is fishing, since for the north there are no viable alternatives to maintaining without compromising the health of the resource, whereas in Fistra towards the south there are many ICES recommendations leading up to the quotas. So much so that we have already asked the Ministry to demand from the Commission that this TAC should comply with the recommendation of the ICES of 24% increase rather than the figures of the management plan issued by the Advisory Council for Pelactics, which, although it has been assessed as a precautionary by the ICES, has not been approved by Community legislation. Furthermore, it is known that the Ditome of the Council of Pelaxies gave the possibility to the main states that capture this TAC, i.e. Spain and Portugal - to agree on the recommendation, thus having the opportunity to decide on the dictation, provided that the limited participation of both states and their sectors in this Consultative Council diminishes the capacity for prior opinion. Since then, and in view of this Commission's claim, we have made another impact report with the same formula as fish and taking into account the importance of the jurel as the first species in length by kilograms landed. So, with an average reduction of 48%, given that the proposal is -41 in the Cantabria and -50 in the IXa zone, we see how the figure of economic adjustment would reach 13 million euros in our fleet, whereas on the farthest they would rise to 13.8 million if we added the discharges of the ships of other autonomous communities. Just as there is an uneven impact on the fish, suffering the fleets of the Coast of Death and Portsin, a cut that reaches each of the areas more than 20% over the total, and having the farthests of the Coruña, Arousa and Ribeira the greatest minorities in billing. In this species there is a particular concern about the segments of minor arts and circles. In the first case this fear is given that 19 rake boats accumulate 45% of the discharges, while in the case of the siege this fear arises knowing that we have 98% of the quota and that this species is fundamental support for our fleet. Chapter separate deserves, in the case of these species, the case of coastal trawling, since both quota reductions impact this modality, and may cause a sum of losses for both cuts that rise to EUR 46,000 per boat, which can cause the benefits of them to be eliminated, encrypted by the input-output tables at EUR 26,000. Even taking that economic calculation of the input-output tables and using the drag ratio to the rest of the economy of each lost euro on first sale that was used in previous cases of cuts, as was the case with the lirium, we see how this potential loss is of nearly 37 million euros of billing, which can become more than 86 million euros of impact on the Greek economy. But not only do we have this damage in the 64 branches of the 81 existing in the Greek economy related to fishing, but we would see 3,700 crew members cut their income, which is certainly serious and negative to many coastal areas, knowing that this cut affects the nine areas in which the coast is divided for fishing purposes in Galicia. Finally, and apart from these extremely negative proposals, we have another one that in economic terms is not so much, but that keeps an impact on the fleet and that already constitutes an aggravation, as it is a symbol species for some ports and fleet units. I'm telling them about the cicada's closure in the Northwest Cantabria. To reverse this situation and the key mode for that closed door, we have a report by Pescagalicia-Arpega-O Barco and the OPP-7 of Lugo, carried out with the collaboration of the Council and referred by the Galego Fisheries Council. This report points to the possible effects on the accounting of catch data in the years prior to closure on the basis of three fundamental issues and which have more to do with fisheries management than with the biological state of the resource. This study cites the importance of reducing fishing effort by spending and the entry into force of the Plan for the Recovery of Southern Fish and Cicada, whose effects up to the ICES indicate that they are unknown. In addition, changes are also pointed at the method of accounting for effort and capture, which makes it difficult to systematize data, as it passes from stock determination to landing by observation. Finally, it is worth noting also the different operation introduced through management through individual shares distributed by boat and the need to adapt to them and the model that this entails, which was a substantial decrease in landings in 2012, which were recovered until 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, beyond these challenges that are presented in a specific way this year, we still have others that make up a block of continuity in work as far as these are aspects of management of fishing vessels that affect them very much and those we have to keep working on. In this sense, the implementation of the obligation to land all catches this 2019 has posed a challenge in which a block of measures must have been formed to avoid paralysing the fleet, especially because of the impact that could have on species of strangulation for which Spain had not had enough quota or even had no quota. This year we must continue to work so that this bag of species with TAC is maintained, making our fleet work. We know it's hard to keep this bag as long as there are negative recommendations for some of the species, like cod, but we trust that negotiation. In addition, we will continue to demand to eliminate those TACs of species of by-catches to our fleet and which can become -- these yes -- strangulation species. This is, as we have pointed out on other occasions, 9 TACs on which there is no directed fishing effort, with few landings and with reduced effort on them. In this sense, the steady maintenance of the volume of landings and the scarcity of such landings will result in this request. In addition, there are precedents for removing TACs based on this risk and according to these criteria in the case of berthella or beach in certain areas. In this case, our proposal will be addressed to the abbot, the linguado, the stick fish, the melon and the sole. In addition to the challenge of reducing discards, there are other management challenges that we will have to address in this negotiation and that are divided into several blocks. One is the block of flexibility, where it comes into play the possible separation or overlap of different TACs of pelagic species, as is the case with the jurel and the mouth, and in which we advocate by secondary the unexplained position of the ICES by making separation of the TACs of anchor in the southern and northern areas of waters of the IX zone between Fisterra and Gibraltar. Moreover, we argue again that it is possible to expand the flexibility of exchange of interest and width between the Cantabria and Fisterra areas to the south by 25% today, with a proposal of 10% by 2020. This is already a step forward, but still we're still demanding 25%. The second is the block of predictability, where the need to avoid substantial changes in quotas in each of the years, as is the case with the jury in zone IXa in advances and setbacks exceeding 50%. We agree and always advocate a proposal that reductions or quota enlargements do not exceed 15%, making a smoother approach to the levels to be reached, which is thus more likely to be assumed for the fleet. And the third block would be that of specificity, in which we have to use the different formula of management and pattern of fisheries of the lyre and the yard that makes the quotas of both species, in addition to constituting a separate TAC, have different recommendations, making possible a more appropriate recommendation of the quota. We want, therefore, to continue to take steps to improve fisheries management, to bring more into line with the forecasting models and TAC proposals on the road that have been taking other issues that we have addressed and discussed in past years, such as the inclusion of angula in the measures to protect the eagle or the elimination of the top of fishing effort days for the coastal trawl. But, ladies and gentlemen, not everything that has to do with the possibilities and management of fisheries affecting Galicia is decided on this ministerial appointment. There are measures that transcend the scope of the European Union, such as negotiations in NEAFC, which affect lire and garden, Norway, and which have to do with cod or hen, or with regional fishing organizations, where cases such as swordfish, sharks or cute fish come in. There are also measures relating to the scope of the states, such as the case of the management of the fishing of the olomol or the strip, which is defined within Spain, or the one of the Sardinia, with other member states, which is established according to Portugal. In this case, we must remember that these situations before were addressed with keys that mark each of the cases, but I have a constant, Galicia's work interest in making them positive for our fleet and our fishing sector. We must also not forget that this year a question that can be a destabilizing element of this whole conglomerate of elements is the case of Brexit. In order for this not to happen, we must negotiate at this time of extension a fisheries agreement with the United Kingdom which maintains the status quo as regards reciprocal access to water and markets, and in this the European Union and the Government of Spain must have an ally. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the communications made to the Central Government and Brussels, I would like to point out to you that this council will go further, and it intends to show by the hand of the sector and with them as protagonists the social value that our maritime-fishermanship has. It is true that with feelings they do not earn quotas, but it is also true that we must continue to awaken consciences, especially in Europe. If many non-governmental entities seek the sustainability and stability of fish, we believe that we must seek the like of fishermen and seafarers, because of all this it depends on the continuity of the activity that feeds in Galicia directly around 50,000 people. [[Applause]] So I end by pointing at more actions to show that value and social importance of fishing in Galicia, and with that principle I ask you to, by the hand of the sector and by the way we have seen, if you add to this will of professionals to safeguard their interests and make their activity viable in all terms of it, in the environment, in the social and economic sectors. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u70	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quintana. Round of parliamentary groups. Mr Casal Vidal has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Counselor. The truth is that we are a little concerned about this - which seems to have focused mainly on the end - theoretic dichotomy between socio-economic sustainability and environmental sustainability. We think going that way doesn't make any sense. We believe that the future of fishing is increasingly linked to environmental sustainability. There will be no substitutability for fishermen and marishers without the substitutivity of fisheries; it is the only way. In addition, you recognized during your intervention and many reports certify that the work done all these years has led to the fact that last year TACs could increase in many species. In other words, it seems that despite the deterioration of the marine environment, which is a scientifically proven fact, the actions carried out by all administrations and the fisheries sector have achieved a positive effect. We consider it necessary to continue on that path, because it is a reality. The biomass has recovered in recent years, and that, I say, certify everything, although perhaps not in enough way. We have to keep working on that line. The reality is that we have reached 2020 -- practically already achieved in 2019 -- and by this year 2020, by information -- you know I'm not an expert in the sector -- all fisheries have to be in maximum sustainable yield. How do you connect that maximum sustainable yield from the environmental point of view to the minimum yield, as you said, socio-economically sustainable? Because we think that continuing to focus on species sustainability is the only way, because it's the only thing that's going to get the seas really to go full of fish and keep their jobs in coastal communities. Obviously, it generates tensions, it generates dysfunctions, and that's where politics enters and where its management enters. We believe that the way to guarantee that minimum socio-economic sustainability is for much more determined support of handicraft fishing and proximity. We believe that the road goes by the strong appreciation of the products in this fisheries sector, which is already being done, and we recognize it, but much more needs to be done, because really for many years discrimination towards this sector has been very strong, and so it is seen in the data published. We believe that there must be positive discrimination against artisanal fishing, protecting it in a much more important way, because we believe that there is the path of valorization. Clearly, the solution is not to fish much more with other food resources techniques so that fishing was cheaper and more accessible to the population. We think it's a reality that citizenship recognizes that the protein from fish is of much greater quality than other animals and it's said that it has an impact even twenty times less than that from the beef, for example, six times less than that from the meat of pig and three times less than that from the meat of birds. Well, we think that's going to condition citizenship to be willing to make an effort, we've seen it all these days in the surveys that are being done throughout Europe. All citizenship is shown to be feasible to scrape the pocket a little in favor of sustainability. So let's take advantage of that and consider that the best way is through the strengthening of the fishing of artisanal proximity. But of course that doesn't keep one of the strongest sectors, as is the Welsh fishing and seafood sector. We have to go further, and going further is just to increase our research effort. We have already talked about it in committee and we have already spoken about it when the budget was discussed. We consider that Galicia's position must be much stronger, also towards the state, because it is no longer the achievement of quotas, but then how they are distributed, and there we come to truly unfair situations that must be solved. And how do they work out? Why 94% -- who came out yesterday -- from Spanish and Spanish think climate change is a reality? For scientific evidence. It is true that there is still a small number of people who keep thinking that the earth is flat and that they also say that climate change does not exist. But scientific evidence is what led a vast majority of the population to that conviction. We believe that scientific evidence can improve the situation towards the state and especially the situation towards European entities. And how can scientific evidence be obtained? Well, investing much more decisively in research. We have some institutes with a very strong prestige, like the Intemar and the Cima, and, as we have already proposed in our budget amendments, we have to exponentially strengthen the budgets of these institutes so that you can go to Brussels with much more solvent information, not because there is no solvent, but because it would have to be increased in a much stronger way. And in science and research, budgeting is equal to results, especially because to achieve results sometimes you have to invest in many things that don't work out, precisely. This is known to all innovative sectors of R+D+i. The risk is essential, and the risk leads on many occasions to have to invest in things that then do not reach the right port, but the only way to have truly solvent data and that they are really impactive and innovative is with a decisive increase. That's why, and considering, moreover, that repeatedly your advisor's office can't execute budgets, we're putting forward weapons to achieve better results, which we think will be better than what they're up to now. It seems, from the studies we have been able to consult, that the scientific reports assess that the European Commission's first proposal can be improved, especially in the case of the jury, as you said. I don't know if it'll be possible in our area in the case of cock and garden. In the case of the jury, so I could read, it is almost guaranteed that you will be able to increase. It looks like a good result of the increase in the garden, which was scientific evidence. But, I say, support for artisanal fishing to be able to value it more and create jobs, much more employment in that sector, and bet determined by research, the marine research institutes Galicia has, which should have greatly increased its budgets. That would give you a lot more weapons so Galicia wouldn't be harmed, both in the total quota and in the distribution that will then arrive in Galicia. These are our little contributions. Let us hope that they will be taken into account and that we will indeed continue to move closer to environmental sustainability, which will be the only way to maintain the socio-economic sustainability of the fisheries sector. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u72	Thank you, Mr. Casal. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u73	Good morning. Good morning, Mrs. Quintana. If it hadn't been because there's a hemerotheque and because there's the Session Diaries, anybody would say you're the same advisor who's been in front of the Sea Councillory for ten years. The first thing I thought about today is that you have fallen off the horse on the road to Damascus and that you have just made a complete amendment to the fisheries policy of the People's Party, the People's Party on the Galician Union, the People's Party on the Spanish State and the People's Party on the European Parliament. Because, of course, the first thing I had to tell you is that this framework where these TACs and quotas are decided so harmful - that, if you consolidate or confirm that proposal, it will be tremendous for all segments of our fleet, for thousands of people - is that of the application of the common fisheries policy, right? And what did the People's Party vote on the common fisheries policy? Let me know, please. It is a consequence of the principle of relative stability which was in force when the Spanish State entered, with Galicia included, of course, and which in the years of government of the Socialist Party and the People's Party has not changed. And what establishes that principle of relative stability is that those states that have certain conditions to protect their quotas and their sea follow them, even though they are not in line with their fishing capabilities or what it means to their population. And he's still there. In Galicia, a highly fishing-dependent area, did you get a job or did you do it to make it that way? And, consequently, this classification as Galicia highly dependent on fishing have better conditions and better resources? I don't know. So, in ten years of sea councillor, Mrs. Quintana, what problems have you solved? I say this because the model imposed by the European Union — another European Common Market — remains fully in force, which meant eliminating a very important part of our fleet, losing people working at sea, maintaining a model of discriminatory distribution — this shortage of quotas — problems with artisanal fishing: way, sardine,mouth, cockroach, garden... I'm surprised you don't come here today with the speech you've been holding in recent times that since you've been a advisor they've increased fishing opportunities and TACs in Galicia. Of course... well, well, of course! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In the yard, from the year 2009 there were 24,000 tons and at the end of November there were 5,000 - one month left, the same increases a little, but 5,000 -; in the rapante, 7,500, at the end of November 5,700 - he was speaking of thousands of tons -; in the chestnut, from 4,100 tons to 2,700; in the sardine, from 13,800 tons to 2,300; the pretty one is a little below; in the cicada, from 647,000 — in this case not tons, but pounds— to 152,000; in which, from 2,500 tons to 995,000 — in this case, not tons — in this case, in the pot, from 2,800 million to... everything. Of course, they have increased in matters like painted garden, that species that has no value, but most of the really fundamentals for our fleet have decreased. And if the intention of the European Union is to be confirmed, this will go further. You ended your speech by saying that they would continue to act because there was still a need for awareness in Europe, and also for Europe to realize that for Galicia fishing is also an environmental problem — that is, it is an environmental issue — but essentially a socio-economic issue. How many years have we been saying that the issue and the socio-economic element must be given priority? For Galicia it is essential, and that is why that need to declare Galicia a highly dependent area of fishing. And you're there, not mu. [[Applause]] Of course! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] But you think that awakening consciences in Europe is to tell them: listen, you're mistreating us! He might think that he'll wake up consciences. No, Mrs Quintana, consciences are alarmed with a direct voice, a vote — that we do not have — and a veto. And we have no voice, no vote, no veto! That's the problem of Welsh fishing. That's the problem! [[Applause]] And that's how consciences are awakened, with political capacity: voice, vote and veto. [[Applause]] And in these matters the People's Party did absolutely nothing to keep those elements on the table to defend our fishing. And, of course, with a model of fisheries policy based on a model of TAC that has been verified as bad for our fleet, alienating decision-making in Brussels, they are far from reality; they do not take into account the difference between artisanal and industrial fishing, with criteria where they are treated the same, with which we already know who is continuously benefited, and with a model that does not protect fishing communities for which fishing is a fundamental element. It's a model that doesn't protect artisanal fishing, which is fundamental in Galicia, because it's the one that generates wealth, the one that distributes jobs and the one that creates population on the coast. We have been telling you for years and you continue to vote against systematically in the proposals we have brought to this Parliament, voting against it — it is in the Journal of Sessions; it is a pity — every time we have brought proposals for the defence of artisanal fishing. [[Applause]] And, look, of course, the main problem is that there is no quota according to the size of the fleet by that principle of relative stability. And the Spanish State — and within the Spanish State, Galicia, which is the community where fishing is most important —, of course, does not have the quotas according to that size, but is divided on the basis of political criteria. France represents 10.6% by boats, and it turns out that it has a lot more. We can talk about Belgium, which has 1,65 % of the catches assigned, when it's only 0.9%. We're backwards, what we represent in fleet, the captures, are inversely proportional. But I'm going to set a practical example for all of us to understand: the Jarda and the Faeroe Islands. It turns out that the Faroe Islands are not primarily part of the European Union for fishing purposes. Why? Because that way they can negotiate and have the quotas that suit them. So we've found that Norway, the Faeroe Islands and the European Union are making an agreement to divide the quota of the garden — I'm talking about this year 2019. And how's that distribution? Since the 28 states of the Union are left with 454,000 tonnes, the Faroe Islands — with 57,000 inhabitants — with 116,000 tonnes and Norway with 207,000 tonnes. That's the proposal for the garden. Very fair, right, depending on environmental and socio-economic criteria. In front of that, what did the People's Party Government do? What did the People's Party do in the European Parliament to reverse this situation? That we know, of course, little thing: to say that he has reports, that they are good, that if they realize that Galicia this is a problem, but real measures... and not just that, last year Norway stopped fishing 140,000 tons of Jarda and the Faeroe 20,000 islands. Turns out you actually know how much Galicia had in 2019? 25,000 tonnes; that is, less than the remains of other fleets that fish what they want, and that makes their economies — as is the case with the Faeroe Islands, with 57,000 inhabitants — have an economic development in recent years — for that decision to leave the European Union because it is a highly dependent area of fishing — and that goes great. So you're very happy and you said that there is -- it's not yet reported -- the proposal that 41% of that quota is going up; it was going up to 35,000. What would that mean? That those who have a lot, have a lot more, and those who have a little bit more, because they have a little bit more, but that they keep exactly the same criterion of distribution so bad for the fleet of our country. Therefore, Counsellor, the question is that this Commission proposal, of course, is bad, as have been the case virtually every year. Because to see if anyone is able to explain to me how possible they're going to say that now they're going to propose that variability doesn't go by 15%. Of course, but that's what they've had to do for a long time! What's the justification...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u74	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u75	...that one year will rise by 25%, for the next year will fall by 40%, for the other will rise by 4%...? What scientific criteria measure such barbarity? None. Political criteria, voice, vote and veto, Mrs. Quintana! The political criteria are the ones that weigh on making those decisions. Therefore, the BNG — I have repeated it again — we are totally against this distribution model...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u77	...we are totally against those who decide others for us, we are totally against giving up a fundamental sector for our country, tied in with feet and hands, which I suppose the ships...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u78	You have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u79	...our fleet had been reduced by 30% in recent years, that the decrease was almost 1,000 in minor arts, 50 in long-lived, 30% in coastal trawling, 70% in the Great Sun, or in people in more than 3,500 people under the special sea regime. Those are the consequences of this fishing policy in which the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u81	...have voted in favour, that you have endorsed. It's good that reports are made, that we already know what the situation of these reports is, but it would be far better if they were to plant themselves and really demand what we have to do as a country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Mr. Jove González has the floor of the Left Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u83	Thank you very much, Madam President. For starters, I'm going to welcome you here. First, I welcome the comrades and companions of the Acerga Association, of Portsin, who are here today, especially the pattern of the Divine Sea. We regret the death and still expect an investigation into how disastrous the rescue of that ship could be and how it could have happened so that it would still be there for today, when everyone thinks, from the people of the sea, that it could have been avoided. The second welcome I want to give to the lady counselor because she has just arrived here to radically challenge her decade of fishing policy. It's something, of course, fascinating. Welcome to the opposition! I suppose they'll be more and more in the opposition at this bench; they'll be more and more mentally at that moment. And I'll tell you something. We are, of course, where we have always been, next to the sector, and there we will continue to be, of course yes! And there we will continue to be and we will be supporting him, yes, in his demands, because we understand that, of course, they are fair. But they're fair this year and they should have been fair in previous years. We have also reviewed the reports of the ICES and we do not understand the proposals of the European Commission. When he ruled his friend Government, of course, for us, it was exactly as worrying as it is today. One perspective of a reduction of 41% of the jurel, 21% of the fish and 5% of the abbotx de facto suppose one of the last strangulations that could withstand our fleet. We're also concerned about fish and garden, although you've already announced that this correction was in progress. Because I understand that this appearance has more to prepare for the later triumphalism of the corrections that everyone knows will take place. Everyone knows they're going to get fixed, just look at the ICES reports to figure out what they're going to fix. Well, you just said that, precisely on the subject of the garden it will be corrected. In the matter of the impossibility of opening the cock, we want to see those reports, we have no reason to doubt. We would really be delighted and delighted, in the Joint Left Group, to be able to value those reports and fully agree with that proposal to reopen the Cantabrian cock. These reductions are already consistent with those suffered in 2019, where 6.8% of the rapture was reduced and 20% per yard. Let's see if we can get him back now. But curiously, I have a statement from you that last year with these reductions has declared itself satisfied; this year we will see that satisfaction where it comes from. We know that the proposals are not definitive. For us it's very important not only how much fishing is done. Quotas are very good, but we care more about how, who, when fishing and how much added value has that fishing. It's no use fishing any more if that, in the end, is going to be a lower value on the market. In addition, we have to add the poor quota management, as shown in the past week's event with the closure of the jury — already a few days ago — or in July with the closure of the pretty one and the announcement of his reopening 74 days later, after finding out inaccuracies in the calculations of it. I think we agree that we need to articulate mechanisms urgently so that this can't happen again because it's something that obviously affects the lives of many people. There's also something that concerns us, and it's really the war on the extractive sector of fishing. Now that the FEMMP criteria are being reformed and it will already be called FEMPA, including aquaculture directly, we do not agree with that criterion of putting everything in a bag, the whole sea-related, as if it were the fishing sector. Fishing is fishing; and the fishing industry is fishing, but it is not exactly fishing. And I'm saying this because it seems to me -- and it seems to us -- really worrying what we're living for, which is the expulsion of fishermen and fishermen and seafooders and seafooders from the sea because we understand that there are other interests that seek their disappearance, that they've already decided not to be for fishermen, but yes for intensive fish farming, the spaces that now occupy people, like those we have here today in the gallery, who are trying to draw forward a fishing that has centuries of history. In particular, on species, on the subject of the jury, of course, we do not understand the European Union proposal either. By reviewing documentation provided by the ICES, in the June 28 report, this institute even recognizes that it would be the possible moment, the considerable moment, without affecting the RMS, we agree. In that same report, applying all types of protectionist coefficients in the medium and long term, there is a possibility of an increase of 47% compared to 2018 and 24% compared to 2019. So we understand that there we have to agree to claim that this is not the way it is. One thing we agree on - and we think the fence sector is very clear - is in the launching of multi-annual plans. This also commented on it, welcome to that criterion. Of course, we agree that stability is given to the sector and that they know not only what is going to fish this year, but that they can make a forecast whether they will be able to live or not in the following years. And specifically with regard to the jury, I'd like to ask you here a question, because, of course, we have knowledge of the writing where the search sector is self-regulated, fixed at 750 kilograms per crewman and ship a day. We know that it was agreed and endorsed by the Galaga Federation of Brotherhoods at its meeting on June 15 this year. I wonder what you've done to Together in that sense. What has Junta done to support proposals that seek the sustainability of the sector, the sustainability of the resource that emerges from the sea people themselves, which seeks to regulate itself precisely so that the resource is more sustainable? For, we insist, it is not how much fishing is; it is like, when and what price it is sold. It's no use fishing swear it at the price of fishmeal, saturate the market without any demand. This year, for example, on the coast of Portsin, entered 2 million euros less. In the specific case of the jury, fishing practically the same as last year, you are entering EUR 700,000 less than in 2018; an oscillating interest price — pay attention! — between the cent per kilo to EUR 7 per kilo this year. We'll agree that it's not just how much I fish, but how much I fish and how much I fish. That's what the Galician Union has all the competition and responsibility, because it's policies that have to affect demand, it's policies that have to value our product, not the global amount of quota, but when you fish and who fish, and that gives you added value. Theme aside is that of the famous ITQ market, the individualized quotas. We are very concerned about what is going on, and the part that reminds us of exactly what happened with milk in the 1990s of the last century, where it has become increasingly reduced to fewer companies, and today we have ships that have to buy quota to large companies that increasingly accumulate that quota. We understand that this has to be radically changed because it is a very negative path, because apart from increasing production costs, since I have to pay to the middleman who has to live on it too, it has a negative impact on the management of the resource itself. It can't be that companies that accumulate shares create a kind of parallel administration where they fish when they want to fish. That can't be. Of course, we have a proposal on that: transfer of quotas and coupons between fleet segments must be under the control, management and management of administrations. That's what we understand. In the case of the garden, I don't want to extend because you said you, already anticipated, that you were going to recover. Well, that sounds like good news to us. Others will probably come in that direction. I wish there were many more. The case of the sardine would give another appearance entirely. We here also have to say what we always defend: of course, if we talk about the environment, of sustainability, if we talk about resource support and we talk about added value, we cannot, for example, make it clear in the case of sardine, that what is collected for the sector in the way - which has the least impact on the resource - is 2.57 % of the capture possibilities, or 2.57! We at least know what is said about the situation of the resource. We would also like, by the way, to recover the inland waters, it could be a solution. As you said, you have several reports, which we would like to see — I suppose you will have no problem giving them to this group — precisely about the sardine. We know the situation - which is published - about the stock of the sardine, however, does not match the reality of the fishermen and the fishermen of the sardine. So we urge, as we have done before, the Council of Galicia to prepare its own reports of the state of the sector. And of course, how will you prepare your own reports, not just about the economic influence, but about the state of the resource itself? How will you prepare your own reports - despite us from here send a greeting to people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u84	You've got to go finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u85	...professionals of Intemar and Cetmar — if in 2018, in programme 723A, competitiveness and improvement of the quality of fisheries and aquaculture, has left 56 of the 66 million budgeted? Just spent 10 of 66! We understand that there's a lot to do, we understand that there's enough resources...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u86	Finish it, Mr. Young.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u87	...and we understand that we have arguments. Of course, in the reply I will continue with this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Young. The Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Otero Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u89	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Welcome, Counselor, and welcome also the representatives of Acerga. We agree with you that, with regard to the adoption of the TAC Regulation and quotas for the year 2020, which will be adopted at the next Council of Ministers to be held this December in Brussels, we play a great deal for our Galician fleet. I want to remain with your words in which you said that institutional loyalty would be essential both from the Council of the Sea and from the Ministry of Fisheries itself, because we believe it is essential to go hand in hand, with arguments, and also, of course, with the sector itself in order to improve these TACs and quotas. We also agreed with you that the way to get better TACs and quotas can be based on three principles that you said, as they are, co-governance with the sector -- here we want to point out what should be with the whole sector and not with part of the sector -- the loyalty between administrations and also the basis for our arguments to be taken into account by these scientific and technical arguments. Both in that council that will be held and in the meetings that have already been held, in the preparatory meetings of this council, these technical reports are fundamental to the ability, as I said, to substantiate our intentions. In this preparation framework, last week the General Secretariat for Fisheries and DG Mare held a preparatory meeting of this Council of Ministers in which a technical dossier was presented showing some figures in which it focused on the various interventions: the socio-economic importance of fishing activity, together with scientific considerations approved by the IEO supporting the demands of administrations, autonomous and Spanish, from which the existence of improved margins on the Commission's proposal can be deduced. Demands for achieving the maximum sustainable yield in all stocks by 2020, but taking into account another of the priority objectives of the common fisheries policy, such as economic and social sustainability, so that it provides the fisheries sector with a minimum stability, avoiding anything that has been also mentioned here today in the morning, these sudden variations from TACs from year to year. In these negotiations, therefore, it will be a priority for the Ministry of Fisheries to defend the economic and social sustainability of the different fisheries and the necessary stability for the TAC level sector to be approved. The Ministry of Fisheries will flag social sustainability to correct the proposed reductions, in order to consolidate the high standards achieved by the Galician fleet and also by Spain in scientific knowledge and in the application of environmental measures, and it would be necessary to improve the knowledge of the socio-economic component of fishing. That is why we understand that the economic indicators of fishing activity must integrate information into the entire value chain and take into account all parameters of the auxiliary industries that also depend on fishing. In this sense, it is essential to work together, administrations and sector, to be able to move an objective and real vision of fishing activity, highlighting the positive aspects to which it contributes to fishing and moving it to a society that every day requires more information about the products it consumes. In addition, as has also been said, in 2020 it will be necessary to continue to work on one of the greatest challenges of the common fisheries policy, as it is in the full implementation by the second consecutive year of the obligation to land for all stocks with TAC and quota, as well as the need to continue to seek permanent solutions for the so-called species of strangulation, as well as the convenience of maintaining the use of exceptions, such as the "minimal" or high-survival, to ensure activity in certain fisheries. Last year, when you came to talk about TACs and quotas for the year 2019, this group already focused on the need to listen to the sector so that they would bring solutions to specific cases and that the ban on discards and the obligation to land had the least impact on the operation of our fleets, solving problems that may arise as the risk that our ships should be moored to the wharf for cutting down on the subject of discards, or also for problems of space operation on our ships. We see how today discards and landings are one of the greatest challenges of common fisheries policy and that we must continue to work on them so that they, as I said, have the slightest impact on our ships. We agreed to call the European Commission's starting point a matter of concern, because there are significant declines in quota levels for several of the species of interest to our fleet, as has already been said here, for example, fish and jurelo. There's room for manoeuvre. It's not, as you said, a final document, we have to work, we have to provide technical reports that support our claims and also, of course, debate and negotiate. Because, look, last year in the TAC and quota negotiations for the year 2019 Spain obtained fishing quotas worth EUR 503.8 million for 2019, which meant an increase of EUR 26 million, or the same, 5% with respect to 2018 - calculations made taking into account the price of the fish in first sale on the lengths -. The Galician fleet has been well stopped from negotiations in 2019. Of course everything is better, but, in money from the sector itself, most of it was satisfied with the distribution of quotas. You don't misunderstand my words, you have to keep working, it's not a fact to be congratulated, you have to keep trying to get a higher possible level of quotas, but in 2019 this original Commission document has been improved. By making some reference to some of the species that have been referred here, as regards fish, we agree with the concern expressed by the advisor for the decline in the billing of the lengths of Galicia that this cut for 2020 proposed by the Commission would cause this species. In the cuts planned for fish both in the Great Sun and in the Cantabrian and in the Gulf of Cadiz we do not share this reduction, since both are being exploited in maximum sustainable yield, and scientific recommendations would allow them to continue their exploitation by fulfilling the objective of the common fisheries policy, even with a lower decline in TAC. So we don't understand and we don't share this cut in the fish either, because, being exploiting the maximum sustainable yield, we think that demanding more sacrifices to the fleet in the form of cuts would almost erode cruelty. As far as the jury is concerned, we do not understand the 41% reduction in the interest rate in Cantabria, and we do not understand the reduction of 50% of the TAC in zone IXa, because this reduction of 50%, according to the Commission, was based on the Ditame of the Consultative Council of Dangerous Species, which is inconsistent with the scientific recommendation, which, curiously, suggested an increase, in addition to pointing out that in this council we are not represented neither the Spanish nor the Portuguese. As for the cicada, for the functional unit 25, in the area of Galicia, one must work and improve scientific information to defend the reopening of this fishery, currently closed since 2017 and for which only a small amount is available for scientific campaigns. For that, ICES was asked to review its assessment, taking into account the data from the latest scientific campaigns of the years 2017, 2018 and 2019, to be taken into account in the possibility of modifying the TAC over the next year and thus reopening the fishery. In short, as far as these species are concerned, there are -- repeat -- margin of manoeuvre and improvement, there are technical and scientific arguments that support it and that loyalty is fundamental -- since we spoke earlier -- between administrations. We have also spoken here today about the horse, and in this sense it must be pointed out that, as we have also said, our fleet will have more horse in 2020 after the agreement reached to climb the quota to 41%, after becoming in 2018 one of the most controversial fisheries...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u90	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u91	...—I have finished, Mr President—because of the shortage of quota. So, this deal is welcome, and what we expect is that, of course, the margin of manoeuvre that exists...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u92	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u93	...be taken advantage of and that there is this institutional loyalty between the different administrations so that our Galician fleet will come out as soon as possible. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u94	Thank you very much. You have the floor for the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Egerique Mosquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u95	Good morning. Thank you, President. Good morning, Mrs. Quintana. The truth is that we thank you for coming up with your own request every year to propose the fisheries policy that you want to carry out in the Galician Union, of which you have, in addition, experience and that you do not make politics with fishing, as is done on many occasions since this rostrum. We appreciate the rigour. We know that this is a matter, as you said, of loyalty, of unity with other administrations, and we here, from the People's Parliamentary Group, thank and endorse your experience in various negotiations over the years in Brussels. You spoke of the importance of co-governance. The fact is that it is also an issue that we have discussed on many occasions in the 8th Commission and is increasingly important, because of the issues and the taxes that come in this case of the dictates and Brussels. We know that social sustainability is also an important point that since the People's Party in Galicia has always defended itself when bringing negotiations to Brussels and always defending fishing, because, as much as it is said here that fishing is being abused, we do not agree with this circumstance. We know in the framework where we are acting, in the framework where we move and believe that, in addition, the adviser, and the Galician Union in this case, always defends the interests of the fishermen and the interests of the Galician fishing. He spoke of other factors and threats, such as Brexit, discards, the obligation to disembark... In addition, I would like to thank you for the transparency you always talk about these issues and I would like to add that you have already held a meeting in Brussels, you have submitted some reports, and in this case we can also talk about the theme of the gypsy. Justify, in addition, you are the harm that would be done to you the same crop of fishing in Galicia. We therefore have full confidence in you, Counselor. They'll tell me here that I'm going out here to do the ball for him. I don't care, as long as the fishing industry goes well. I want to say that what I can't afford is that many Members, the speakers who preceded me, say some things that are not right or add some subjects or some threats that I think are not in the debate. I, Mr. Jupiter, what I have to tell you is that what just arrived here is you, you're not the advisor; the advisor has been working at the Fisheries Council for ten years, in contact with the sector, with moments, in addition, complicated, always defending Galicia and the way to work in Galicia. So you say that the advisor has just arrived, because I don't think he's the luckiest, because Mrs. Quintana, as I say, every day and every year, in addition, is near the sector. [[Applause]] I think he did it here. And to what you insist on and say on so many occasions - so I say that you have just arrived - that what is important is who, as if fishing and what is the value of that fish, of that product, I tell you that it is what you have been defending this People's Parliamentary Group, that Union of Galicia, for many years now. And, precisely, the person who preceded it, who was Mrs. Santos, on occasion, or some other fellow in her group - because they passed several voices of fishing - constantly criticized this theory that we had and that the Director General of Fisheries himself said in the Commission for so long. She said to simplify: you have to fish for money. That is what is important, that is what we have to go to defend Brussels. Indeed, you come to accuse us of making that statement when, indeed, it is true that the value of the species that we would have to defend is very important for the livelihood of people who are engaged in the sea and to fix population in the different villages that are dedicated to fish, both of height and of underage. Because, besides, I say one thing, you're not threatening yourself here or going against artisanal fishing, that that's also another one — forgive me the expression — canteen, Mrs. Prado, that you're also saying permanently. He's always accusing us of being constantly going against or threatening artisanal fishing, and that's not true. Mr. Jupiter, I believe that in the People's Party of Galicia, and precisely Mrs. Quintana, we are friends of fishing, of the fishing sector; we are not enemies, nor are we against. I think you're confused here in that statement because I think you have to start from a base and build. And I think that from this Galician Parliament, in order to defend Galician interests, we should be united. There are a lot of things and statements, and we can disagree on different issues, but I think Mrs Quintana clearly exposed why it is important to defend certain quotas and the clear and real situation from which we left. There's no less fishing. Look, Galicia broke in 2017 the roof of 500 million euros in first sale of fish and seafood, because you also talk about the importance of lengths and incomes and the increase in cost. The more they ask for our products and the more we show that we better fish them in our rivers, so then we'll be much better and with the more in-service sector. So, I think it's no less fishing, I insist, and that in 2017 this roof was broken, and the year 2018 also offers positive data, as well, being already the third best of the historical series in sales, 478 million euros, and the best year in the historical series in average value per kilo. Therefore, the value of the product is very important. And, Madam Quintana, as I said, we have nothing to blame for. I wanted to tell the speakers something because sometimes they say: you answer the voices here. Well, sometimes certain things need to be clarified. If it's true that many questions will know the advisor answers them much better than I do. Look, Mr. Casal, you say that the future of fishing is linked to sustainability, but, of course, that they also have to know in Brussels. I often say that there is a very fine line between defending the environment and defending fishing, and that's what we've been doing for years there; that is, they should know exactly how here, in Galicia, we are perfectly able to maintain that balance and how, in addition, we are able to respect it. And over time, you've seen the issue of improving species, of increases, of improving the quality of water streams -- that is, we're fulfilling, trying to make infrastructures and take them forward. In the budgets of the Union these ten years are reflected all possible measures for our waters to be purified and sustainable, our products to be better and to be seen as the way to fish is also sustainable, economic and social. Of course, besides, it's a female job. Most women are women. I mean, we have a lot... and besides not because the People's Party invented it, but because it was traditionally so in Galicia. Mrs Quintana is the flag that always leads to Brussels, and I insist not only on the European Union but also outside Europe; it is good that they know exactly what our fishing is like. And I say there's a lot of roads, a lot of work. It's not a three-day thing and it's suddenly going to be invented here as a councillor. As I say, he's been working on the industry for many years, because there are many decisions made on the Fisheries Council, there are many decisions that are perfectly consensual and, ultimately, there are also some budgets. Someone was talking here about the importance of research. This year's budget increased by the Council of the Sea, precisely at the Intemar, in R+D+i. It's increasing too. Of course the budget is also important, and I also say so because in the partial amendments, for example, the Socialist Party reduces 2 million euros from the Council of the Sea. I think it's also sometimes to put black on white is interesting and important. And within the powers that Galicia has and the margin of movement that the Fisheries Council can also have in the distribution of an budget, the Galician Union also knows how to distribute and dominate the fisheries sector. Therefore, there is no discrimination in artisanal fishing. I always get out here I have to deny the biggest one. Mrs. Prado, you've finished by saying that you're against, against, against, against everything, always, because I say: let's see, you're already talking about the common market, once in a while, about the stage where we are, about decisions that exist... but, starting from here, what do you offer? Because, of course, you can say, phenomenal, but, look, voice, vote and veto are on the part of political parties and the representation they get after the elections. I want to say that this People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia has three absolutes, and in the last ten years of what you speak of that voice and that vote also gives it to the Greeks and I imagine that people in the fishing sector as well to decide. And, I insist, that doesn't mean it's a sectarian party or councillor, because, as I say, he talks to the whole sector and he knows very well, in addition, in this case -- because now we're already diverting, according to his interventions, a little bit about the subject -- what he has to do and what to defend in Brussels. It's always open to any contribution. We insist that you too, Mrs. Prado, often here are frivolous with the negotiations: well, they go there and they're hours... yes, there must be hours, we must talk to the people we have to talk about, we must deliver the reports that we previously had to deal with -- because this is not a job, as I say, that it is done from night to morning -- and the reports are already taking time to prove that what we say is no whim. I therefore believe that today the adviser has begun saying that we have a negative but not definitive situation, and we, firstly, are very grateful that he comes to this Parliament to present this plan to all Members of Galicia and the various measures he will negotiate in Brussels. And, as I said, it's not definitive, it's a negative situation that we from the Popular Parliamentary Group hope that it can achieve the results, at least, that they are put here on the table, because we know that these are not simple situations and that competition is great. You here, Mrs Prado, set the example of Faeroe, who is not in the European Union, and talks about garden, but they don't, for example, have fish, which also...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u96	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u97	...have more value. That's what I'm saying, we're also talking, we have to have a clear line. Mrs Quintana has a clear line of work, referred to by this People's Parliamentary Group, and we thank her very much for showing it here to Parliament today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u98	Thank you very much, Mrs. Egerique. Mrs. Quintana Carballo has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u99	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, after listening to the opposition groups speak, I don't know very well where to start. I also greet, of course, the representatives of Acerga, who meet with us today. I don't know much where to start, because Mr. Casal started talking about environmental sustainability and what this aspect was about fisheries management, putting social and economic impacts on a second level. And Mrs Prado accused me of falling off the horse and coming here today with the social and economic aspects of the environment. Look, Mrs. Prado, I've been working at the Fisheries Council for 32 years in different jobs and I have the honour to say that today I don't have to hide my head in front of anyone because I've never told a lie or I've never turned aside from my course. And if you pick up the document that Galicia presented in 2009 for the reform of the common fisheries policy, a document that was prepared at the Fisheries Council, which took you to the plenary of the Galician Fisheries Council, a plenary which is composed of 50 representatives of the sector, elected by the sector itself and where there are absolutely all the sub-sectors of the sea-industry chain, because you will see that this dictatorship developed with the consensus of absolutely the whole sector has been brought to Parliament and has dealt with the different groups at that time. [[Applause]] The Socialist Party will approve all the suggestions it has made; the Galician Nationalist Bloc will approve all the suggestions it has made, except the section that it had to do with fish farming, and yet they were able to vote against the interests of the Greek fishing sector. And in that 2009 document - the year I entered the Council - the first time in the history of the European Union to balance the social, economic and environmental aspects, and hence the common fisheries policy throughout the European Union recognises these three fundamental aspects. So we haven't changed, we've always said that these three axes had to be fundamental and balanced, and so we've seen it keeping since 2009. With that line and with that horizon we work. [[Applause]] So, Mr. Casal, I remind you that the first ones to want the environmental aspect to be based are the representatives of the fishing sector themselves, because without fish they cannot survive. We are the only ones we ask - the same thing the fishing sector does - is that to recover all stocks as they must be recovered if they can take different measures, some in the short term and others in the long term. From Galicia we have always defended the recovery of the long-term environmental aspects, so that we could afford to go back to the stocks without losing fishing capacity, which is what we have seen defending since 2009, and so we continue to do. Because in the reports, I always say -- and I'm a marine biologist -- that it's very easy to get in one block and count pigs or count cows. It's much harder to apply a series of mathematical logarithms to calculate how the situation of the different fishery resources is. So in scientific reports, even though scientists who work do it very well, sometimes one of the logarithms they use is not true to the reality of the situation in which this resource is found at that time. So we always defend that the observation that mariners themselves make of the resource situation must be an element that complements the mathematical logarithms that apply to the identification of the biological situation of the different resources, and on that line we are working on. [[Applause]] Of course, the truth is that Mrs. Prado I don't know what to say. Mrs. Prado, you're in a "no," as Mrs. Egerique said, to all I can say, and with that "no" we're not going anywhere. Because you owe me things, man! Then I almost didn't even finish the race. When Spain entered the European Union, it was not me who made the decisions on what conditions Spain entered the European Union. The evil called the principle of relative stability was adopted in 1982 when Spain enters the European Union, and from there we have to negotiate, and I can assure you that we as we go to Europe are in voice, with vote and with reports. We never went there without voice, no vote and no reports. We have just been in Madrid now by providing the documents of the reports we have made from the socio-economic point of view for the defense of the case of the jury and the case of the fish; reports prepared by the Council itself, and we have also carried out another report, drawn up between the fishing sector, Galician fisheries and OPP-07 - which I referred to in my first intervention - with the Fisheries Council, on the subject and situation of the cicada. Those reports came to Madrid, those reports went to defend themselves before DG Mare's CEO, and with those formulas we work on. It's very easy for you to get here and, as the sector is ahead today, say: in Europe you have to go with your voice, with your veto and... well, I ask you: and your voice in Europe where is it? And your veto in Europe where is it? Because when you had the opportunity -- you didn't, your representative in Europe -- to vote on the Western Water Plan, they didn't even appear in the vote, Mrs Prado. They didn't even go to the vote, and to have a veto we have to be able to build and negotiate with other countries, and to be constructive and negotiate with other countries we have to bring reports, which is how we have worked since minute one. What's more, at the meeting I held last week with the CEO of DG Mare, I wasn't alone, there were representatives of the sector. You can ask the representatives of the sector what the Director General of DG Mare said about how we were doing things in Galicia. You know what he said? I feel very proud, because I congratulated the Greeks for the good that we are doing things and for the example that we are for the rest of the European Union. And that's what I'm staying with, Mrs. Prado. [[Applause]] Because, of course, here changing criteria, changing decisions, changing opinions depending on who we're dealing with is very comfortable, but that's not what profitability gives my sector the most. Because here was a time when we were accused of having little fishing opportunities, there was a time when we were accused of giving more fishing activity to the Basque Country. But what are we talking about? Now I'm told: it's not as much amount of kilos as they fish, it's what they sell. Listen, what I've been saying since 2009. At sea you don't have to go to a single kilograms, you have to go to a euro, and you have to know how to market more, and you have to know how to value our catches. [[Applause]] In that line we are working, without ever giving up, even though we never have the support of the opposition, despite having some opposition groups in a port that tell the sector one thing and in another port they say the opposite. Despite all this, we continue to work with the same route line, and so we believe it. Since 2009, 90% of the increase in fishing opportunities; since 2009, a steady increase year after year of invoicing on our distances; since 2009, the greatest presence in Europe; since 2009 the greatest credibility in Europe. That's our roadmap, and so we have to go on. Are we satisfied? No, and that's why we keep working. We have agreements and agreements for collaboration with all departments of all the universities in Galicia that work in the different aspects that have to do with the sea and industry. And, of course, what you can't mix things up. I can, either from Galicia or from the Council itself or through the departments of applied economics of the university, do socio-economic impact studies. You can't ask me from Galicia to report on the biological situation of Sardinia, because Sardinia is a migratory species and goes beyond the waters of the autonomous community. So, I put myself at ease -- as I have always done -- from the central government to, if we from here can support with more money and research, do it; we are willing to give it to them. You can't come to me here saying I don't run I don't know which game, when it's a game that goes at the disposal of the sector, and when it's the sector itself, what it has to do with projects if you want to do innovation directly with some research center. And mixing that with the budget splits of the Intemar and Cetmar, two centers that grow every year in their budget allocations, two centers that are an example throughout Europe... but what are we talking about? Don't lie so much, please. I need the opposition's help to move you to the sector that we all have to go in the same line and in the same direction, and in that line and in that direction is where we're going. We're getting better prices every year. You can't come here to tell me what I understand by fishing sector. It is very definite what Galicia understands by fisheries sector. The fishing sector integrates it from the marina to the rear that prepares the appliances, because without a good gear a fishing boat is useless, regardless of the size or area of the seas of the world where it is working. And the fishing sector is also the mar-industry chain, which is dedicated to giving value to the transformation of our products as well. Each and every one of them is the one I try to defend every day. So don't come here and tell me you're defending one sector in front of the others. Everyone has a seat, and everyone is capable and able, when we present our proposal for the reform of the common fisheries policy, to renounce each part of theirs for Galicia to win, and that's what I take very seriously. When we talk about the distribution of TACs and quotas in Brussels and the craft fleet, we need to know what is said. The craft fleet depends solely on the species subject to TAC and quotas by 14% of their billing. Of the smaller craft fishing vessels we have in Galicia -3,900 -, 128 are the ones that will be mostly affected by the impact of this cod and jure decision, and those 128 concern me as much as 3,900, but the 3,900 have an invoicing income from the management plans with which we work in inland waters, the nose plans, the seafood plan and the transmal plan. Those are the species that are giving him value, and of course I agree with all of you that we have to keep improving quota management. We can't have things like what happens to us, leaving 32% of the unconsumable fish, 36% of the unconsumable rooster, 42% of the unconsumable lire, and so a number of other species. We need to be able to continue to improve the management of the fishing opportunities we have, to have greater flexibility so that there is a transfer between the different fleet segments and all resources can be better exploited. And in that line and loyalty, of course, I am determined to keep working. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u100	Thank you very much, Counselor. We opened a special round of government doubly clarifications. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr. Casal Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u101	Good day to all. Counselor, I must insist, the negationism of scientific evidence goes nowhere. At all, I said I had seconded the socio-economic sustainability of fishing; I didn't say that. I said that without each other it has no future or viability. That's what I said. And the greatest way to protect our fishing sector is to increase scientific investments so that they can provide reports that can solve the problems of other organisms, whether state or European. You're a biologist, and you know a lot more than I do, but I'm in love with mathematics, and so that an algorithm -- not logarithm, biologists in logarithm themes seem not to be -- it's not a logarithm, it's an algorithm -- whether it's solvent, it needs massive ingestion of data, which should be obtained, in this case, by the fishermen themselves, but that's to be paid. I mean, you can't ask the sector to do that job on your own. And the greatest complexity of evaluation -- it's true that it's much harder to count sardines than counting pigs -- any algorithm needs a larger number of massive data and scientific debugging precisely from the algorithms themselves, because what we always read in a lot of statements is that the fishermen in that area think biomass has recovered -- well, all of this, obviously, has a lot of value, because they're expert people, but scientifically has much less value than if you actually massively invest in that both these data and these algorithms that can handle them are solvents and they can contrast with those of the European Union itself, that algorithms are probably well designed, but the information, the big date you implement them to be able to draw conclusions, could be of much greater quality here. They invest in this, because they leave millions of euros unexecuted with this ejacism that is so... it seems we cannot compete against the reports that the technocrats of the European Union are drawing up. Then I told Mrs. Egerique that the budget increases a little bit. Well, from previous years' experience, what's going to happen is that they're going to leave without investing more millions of euros, because the budget continues to increase every year and the execution continues to decline every year. That's not very coherent. It is also the future of this sector for clear positive discrimination - I said - towards artisanal fishing, which can proportionately bring much more employment and a much more fair income transfer. As I've already commented before, for me the fundamental strategy is to increase the economic value of the protein from fish, and that comes from social value. Then the work of an administration like itss is decisive by quality and health, and, as I said before, by its much lower contribution to the climate crisis, which, as you can see, will increasingly be valued by society. Fish protein has a climate problem 20 times less than beef, nine times less than pork and three times less than poultry. With this data, how is it possible and understandable that the protein from a pig is paid much more than the protein from an oath? It's incomprehensible. It's a problem of social perception that can be changed with an appropriate strategy. We also make a decisive commitment to the environmental protection of our coasts and seas in general, with very strong investments and actions. Obviously, we have to start with the house. Mrs. Egerique said they're doing their best for the sustainability and quality of the waters and seabed. Are you serious? Would you really tell the sailors and sailors of the Ferrol River, the Burgo River or the Pontevedra River? I'd really tell them, what are they doing all they can? And finally, a policy is needed with a much fairer social distribution of the available quotas. And, above all, in order to achieve this, it is absolutely necessary much more force in political representation, a much stronger political weight of the Government of Galician Union, because I agree - although, at best, the rest of my opposition comrades and colleagues do not seem well to them - in which you are one of the most competent advisors, as can be no less, in the strongest country of Europe in fishing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u102	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u103	...but what happens is that later it has no political weight. It can't be that the Basque Country in fishing has much more political weight than we do. This is seen in the division of quotas for a person who obviously doesn't have the experience you have. But when you see the division of quotas, you see that a much weaker sector than Greek is much better treated, especially...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Casal. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado Cores has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u106	I also want to welcome the comrades of Acerga. Mrs. Egerique, you're already told by Franco: don't get involved in politics, as I do, right? We haven't seen politics here, and we're not political parties, we're an NGO. This is not a Parliament where popular sovereignty lies and where we have come to make decisions. [[Applause]] Don't get involved in politics, that's what we are for. I know that's what you're for. I don't know what you can call it, because I always say that artisanal fishing, bass fishing, is the big harm. So in ten years, 1,000 ships have disappeared, isn't that a prejudgment for artisanal fishing? That must be a divine blessing. With 1,000 ships less means there are no fewer people who can work in the sea...! It's a divine blessing, Your Honor, to the People's Party. You also had the courage to say that the People's Party's bet on fishing is already seen in budgets; some budgets that in 2019 are the thirty-seven and a half percent lower than ten years ago, that in 2009, the lowest thirty-seven and a half percent less do not run even 50%. It turns out that this is the People's Party's commitment. Yes, indeed, very visual; that is the commitment of the People's Party. A sector as strategic for the country as fishing, ten years later, has an budget of thirty-seven and a half percent less and does not run even 50 percent. A fantastic engagement! I don't have to applaud that position anymore. Just like you have the courage to say it's a wager for female employment. We have 1,165 seams less in ten years, Mrs. People's Party, thanks to the impressive management of the sea councillor; a fantastic management that makes in ten years of its management there are 1,165 seams less! Look, I'm not going to be able to agree more with you about what you said that in more than thirty years working for fishing you've never moved away from your road map. I can't agree with you anymore. Of course, your roadmap is to act to consolidate the disappearance of the traditional Welsh fishing model and replace it with an industrial fishing model in foreign capital hands. That's your roadmap, which you haven't left for as long as you're a counselor. In fact, I agree with you that you keep your roadmap inconceivable. And the problem is not that the BNG looks like a theater that every December there's this stagnation of quota distribution in the European Union, in the Council of Ministers; the problem is that it looks like the sector, and when I finish, Mrs Quintana - have the representatives there - let me ask you what you think, what this action looks like, that year after year comes with the same. The proposal is tremendous, brute cuts: they're going to cut us down here, up to the neck, but then, as they only cut our waist, we're going to have to applaud our ears. Because that's the stage they make every year: very high proposals for it to then seem like the unmeasurable effort it makes in the combination of the Greek Government with the Central Government, with the Spanish Government, things improve, when what they do year after year is to cut us off. And I have to tell the Socialist Party that if the proposal has no explanation and is so bad, that the Spanish Government will stand up, that it is who negotiates; that it is planted and that it does not accept these cuts for Greek fishing, because it is not worth saying that the proposal is unacceptable if they do not plant themselves, if they then accept and say that it is a little bad, but it could be worse. No, it can't be worse for Galicia. And since I was asked for proposals, if really the People's Party with you, Mrs. Quintana, in the head, wants to defend the fundamental socio-economic aspect of fishing for Galicia do what we've been demanding for a long time: First, demand a model change. This model of quotas is bad for our sector. Second, it exaggerates the elimination of TACs and quotas in inland waters. Make use of the right given to it by the Galician Autonomy Statute, which has exclusive powers in the field of inland water fishing. Third, he pretends to end that indifference which means that in our wharfs, the Portuguese fleet, for example, has more rights than the Welsh fleet itself, or that in the fishing of the beautiful there are fleets like the French or like the Irish that use pelagic arts that are forbidden. Do it. Fourthly, it amends the plan of exploitation of the sardine, demands this amendment, which is harmful to the sector of the siege, or which practically leaves the sector without any possibility in the way. Do it, Counsellor, that that agreement by which you, in conjunction with the Secretary General of Fisheries, handed over 98.8% of the quota of the mouth to Andalusia, if you turn, that would reverse this situation, because it would be temporary and it turns out that you are already there on paper. So do that, too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u107	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u108	...acts for Galicia to declare itself a highly fishing-dependent zone. It acts in conjunction with all the Members who have in the German Parliament and in the Spanish State so that this is a priority, and that it is not enough to come here to say that it was to carry the papers. All right, but besides taking the papers, you have to exercise that voice and that vote where you decide, and you ask for the transfer of the IEO...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u109	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Your time is up. Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left, Mr. Jove González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u110	Thank you, Mr. President. Indeed, PP has been here for too many years; let's expect this to change in a short time. Thank you for reminding me, because it's always important to know; it's always important to remember those thirty years, that lost decade, and we wait -- I insist -- that, of course, it's already the end of that regrettable was, because, as the advisor said, fishing fish populations is not like fishing cows, as she said, but there are things that are tangible and quantifiable... No, I'm sorry to count cows. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But if we can count on, for example, since 2009 how 482 fishing vessels have been lost, what has been a boat a week. But don't look at me, that's official data, that's published, that's not what I'm making them up. 2,789 lost direct jobs, according to social security data, 7,000 indirect jobs. This is the data published since 2009. I suppose you'll have something to do with it. Or does it just have to do with the fantastic negotiation of what I don't know? Well, it'll have something to do with this, with the dismantling of the sector. Something will have to see the Galician Union. 488 shellfish licenses less than ten years ago. And, of course, the socio-economic criteria are important, of course they are important, so we agree, and we are in favour of TACs and quotas being distributed internally after taking these socio-economic weights into account in the key activities of local economies. The current distributions alone consolidate are unsustainable models that only benefit large industrial fleets and compromise the future of the sector, small families and small boats. That's what we have to do. Then, it's fascinating, of course: - there are people in the sector here - that the Administration, that the Galician Board, says that the Fisheries Council does not execute 56 out of the 66 million of the programme's departure 723A because the sector does not ask me to look like a demonstration of such undoubtedness, of such assumption as the incapacity... because, of course, if the Administration has resources that it is unable to put to its objectives and does not achieve its results, it says that the sector has not asked for it. Well, what it has to do is to be proactive, look how and why the sector doesn't believe in these programs, look -- if that sector doesn't find the ability to manage it -- what it is and not just to comply with, because of the sector, we left out investing 56 of the 66 million that were planned. It's the difference, the small nuance between investing and chewing, which, unfortunately, is what the Galician Union is doing towards the artisanal sector of fishing, constantly redecorating and putting more obstacles and more difficulties in managing its fishing resources. Sure, it's about the Intemar. I'm not going to compare Intemar to other organisms like the Basques. He says he grew 3.3 million last year; 3.6, this year. Of course, yes, of course, that's a growth, but does it really seem enough? Yes, that's the problem, which you think is enough. To the Joint Left Group, obviously, it doesn't seem enough, and of course we're in favour of many more research projects being done to see if it's possible to justify that there are own stocks, to see if it's possible, somehow, to find out for sure why Marteilia is ending up with the Greek Berber. But no, that's enough. We hired two more people and bought one... I don't remember what he said at the show, I think he was talking about buying a little material for the lab. It's not enough! It's not enough! and so said the director of the Intemar in her presence. He said they'd use those funds. We, of course, see that there are many things to improve, we see that the Galician Union does not use resources, we see that the budget is small. Of course, we're going to agree on what's right in the defense of TACs. We agree that every year we see this representation here, and we agree that this is a little bit like that of "sufficient death." Let's wait -- of course for the sector, because it goes the lives of many people in it -- who are scared, and they'll keep us next to them. But they do, they use the Greek resources for traditional Welsh fishing, they do, because it's not true what they're saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Young. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Otero Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u112	Thank you, President. Good morning again. Look, Mrs Prado, what we're talking about here today is not whether the TAC and quotas model is the right one, what we're talking about right now is to get the best out of this draft that the European Commission has presented, and that our fleet is not prejudiced and benefits as much as possible. It will agree with me that the best approach is not that the Minister of Fisheries himself stands up and says that it will not be in these negotiations, which will have to be negotiated because there will also be negotiations, these technical and scientific reports will also be taken from which we have been speaking to base our claims and negotiate so that, as I say, our fleet will benefit the most. The moment of procedure will be different, and you have to see if this TAC and quota system is the most beneficial thing for our fleet. [[Applause]] I was talking to Mrs. Egerique -- and I can't disagree anymore -- that it's a bet for women's work, when we and all know -- you know, too -- that there's more than 1,000 marishers less since 2009. And what do you say to me about this permex loss since the year 2009? So I'm betting on female employment, I don't think there's a lot of it. The advisor also talked about that the fishing sector included sailors, sailors, sailors... because here I want to make an incision. If we also look at the ramparts there in the Navy, we've moved it for a long time that there is a need for training for those red tapes, because there was a demand for jobs so that they could take care, both on their own and on their own account, having that title of red tapes, that certificate that believes those skills, and the Council of Galicia itself did not provide that training, it had to come from the Provincial Deputies of Lugo to supply that lack of training. You, Counselor, also talked about the fact that they haven't changed the roadmap, that they haven't changed positions. Well, look, in his first intervention, he was talking about the quota of the width, about the need to increase that quota. But, look, it's just that the Galician People's Party didn't always ask for that increase; it started asking, paradoxically, from June 2018 on because there was a change of government in Madrid. Check it out, they didn't ask for that increase in width. Moreover, the Galician fleet that makes south of Fisterra has been stagnant for years at 1.14% of the total since that quota cut reached by Mr Domínguez, appointed by the popular minister Arias Cañete. And since then, they're not... well, they're at 1.14%. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And who got that 1.14%? Of course! No. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And it was also told to the fence sector that they were going to increase this quota that never arrived. So we ask for institutional loyalty, because we're going to have it among us all. [[Applause]] He spoke of the spokesperson of the Left Joint Group — and I cannot agree anymore because it is a claim by the Socialist Group throughout this legislation — of this failure to execute the budget of the 723A programme. And we no longer ask you about that low budget execution, because the answer is always the same, the answer is always that the sector does not ask for such help. And we always tell you -- and we agree with the Joint Left Group -- that there the Sea Council cannot be a mere FEMP aid and grant agency, that you have to go further, that you have to move to the sector, recommend it and help you deal with these subsidies. And to finish with the topic of what we were talking about, with what the advisor started and with what she brought here today in this Parliament, we believe — and we agree on what is fundamental, okay? — in the balance between environmental criteria and socio-economic criteria. For that it is important to know how to move here that we fish with respectable fishing gears with the environment and that it is also necessary to improve the socio-economic knowledge of fishing in order to make known the socio-economic importance of fishing in our community.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u113	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u114	Therefore, in these negotiations it will be priority to defend the economic and social sustainability of the different fisheries...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u115	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u116	...and the necessary stability for the TAC level sector to be approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u117	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u118	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u119	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Egerique Mosquera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u120	Thank you, President. I want to greet the members of the rostrum, which I don't think I did. I'm sorry. Say hello to you too. The truth is we are in Europe for everything. I think that sometimes opposition groups are worth Europe for some things and then for others not. I think we're in a frame and in some rules of the game that, as Mrs. Quintana has said, they've been here a long time ago. Mrs. Prado, you used to talk about the common market, and today you had to go back to even more recent times to make allusion to interventions now. I think Galicia's political weight is also more than proven because you know that the representation of the Spanish delegation is rotating. Galicia has had its chance and now goes into delegation from another autonomous community; that is, they trust us. And here you always put the Basque Country as if it were gone, but other autonomous communities delegate in Galicia the negotiations and the representation of Spain because they know that Mrs. Quintana knows perfectly, has enough experience, and has also negotiated and has reached very beneficial agreements for Galicia. So that's at the level of the whole country, of Spain, you can't deny this. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Furthermore, Galicia has many quotas in international agreements. In Spain we have 11.9 % of the quotas with 10% of the fleet. It's just that you paint a Galicia that seems to be the blackest thing in the European or Spanish landscape, and it's not true. We are examples, we have to assume, and we have to fight from here, as does Junta and as Mrs Quintana, for the defense of our sector. Look, Mrs Otero, we do not move; whoever the minister is and whoever the Government is, we defend the interests of Galicia always, and besides not being in permanent political battles — I say — by making politics with fishing with other autonomous communities. And don't you remember the permex that was lost in the Bipartite, when you encouraged the marishes not to pay? There's a clear bet on women's employment, and it's also a deeply feminine advisor, which I think is also important in making decisions. Look, the laughing areas, Mr. Casal — in replying to things that I sometimes think deserve a clear argument — have improved a lot, and we have increased from 16% of areas C to 6%; and until it's 0% of course we're not going to stop, but they did. You can't say here that we haven't improved areas and that we haven't worked cross-sectionally since the Galician Union for the improvement and purification of our waters. Mrs. Prado, as I told you, 1972 didn't seem enough, it was further back. I believe and I trust that we will surely agree on many things, and we will have to move forward. So, I think, in addition, the vote has to be held, it has to be exercised. And, as Mrs. Quintana told you before, when you have to be. It has to be, and if you're not at the important times to vote on certain decisions, well, sometimes you have to answer to the citizens. I believe, moreover, that the veto must be built and for that we must negotiate and we must know where we move and what we ask and ask for to Galicia. As for employment, I also want to give a data, the number of members of the special sea regime has remained stable — even on the rise — since January 2015. The figure goes back over the 21,000 affiliates, which are 1,000 affiliates more than two years ago. So you're still painting that black panorama and we're going to keep working on getting the best results and best negotiations for the sector, and, besides, right now and in this debate, according to the TACs and quotas, because we're also talking about this and we're getting out of the debate. I believe that, besides, as I said before, Mrs Quintana was very clear, was very concise and transparent and clearly explains why it is more beneficial to request and where there is room for work according to the ICES or according to the Council, that sometimes she can give recommendations that are not fortunate or that are not beneficial to Galicia. We are faced with a complicated proposal — we have said nothing else to begin — but we are not going to deny that and we are not going to say that it is all negative, because we know that with the common work — and we also explain the characteristics of how fishing in Galicia, we have enough experience and we have, in addition, results of measures that have been taken earlier — this could be reversed. Therefore, Mrs. Quintana, we encourage you to go constructively, from rigor always, because, as you well said, for example in the case of fish, you do not match the data and the figures; and you have on the table studies, data and figures. We will always defend — I insist — even though it is sometimes difficult — the fishing sector in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u121	Thank you very much, Mrs. Egerique. The Mar Counsellor, Mrs. Quintana Carballo, has the floor for the doubling shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u122	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Casal, if I said logarithm, of course, I was wrong. I know perfectly well how to differentiate -- even though biologists aren't many -- what is a logarithm of what is an algorithm; but it's obvious that I had to be wrong, and that's why I'm sorry. So if I'm not going to apologize, it's for the rest of the things he said. I can't let you say that in the Galician distribution system it went very badly because it has no political weight. You have to excuse me, but the data is the data and then -- as I always say -- "what you're measurable in your opinionable"; and every year you're going to ascertain one of those reasonings that we used. Look, when the distribution criteria are done according to the current legislation, what's there is. And it turns out that the Basque Country is an autonomous community where they basically worked at the garden, and we basically work at the jury. What are the main species for the siege of Galicia? The sardine, the jury and, thirdly, the garden. For the Basque Country it's different. If with the same distribution criterion — absolutely the same distribution criterion — in the yard we take 26% and in the jury, 98% will mean that it has nothing to do with political weight, but it will have to do with the willingness of the fleet to work traditionally with species in front of others. What we did with that assignment was we started to improve the management of the national barn and forget those old steps where we went to the Olympic fishing and what we first arrived and what we collected was the fastest thing we came to the house, and we sold at any price; we started to do a management where now the fishing is better distributed, and the Greeks can also access that fishing. Because formerly, when the garden reached the waters of Galicia, Spain had already exhausted its quota. That's what happens. There were large ships of Galicia, or smaller ships either carrying in trucks or by road, and they could fish yards, but there was the vast majority of our fleet that was without possibility of fishing. When this criterion of distribution was made, the sector itself — which was the one that negotiated it in Madrid — acknowledged that we had betrayed 21% of the potential for gardening, we came well; we came with 26. Then it wasn't so bad for us. And that's how the data believes it because precisely the boats, the segment of the fleet of the siege, is a fleet segment where new boats have been built, if they have widened the boats, and without any help. That means the situation of the fishing activity in that fleet segment improved and so I'm glad. So the distribution criteria have nothing to do with political weight, but with the special dedication that a fleet had on a particular species. I link him to what Mrs. Otero said of utmost loyalty: everything. Regardless of the political colour that he ruled in Madrid, Galicia has always defended the same. When the fishing opportunities were closed down in the distribution agreement with the autonomous communities, as Galicia had traditionally not reached the mouth, we had no anchor capture histories to be able to justify, and so mathematically, we accounted for 1.14%. It is true that at that time the Secretary-General for Fisheries was Mr Domínguez, who soon left, but reached a commitment both to the autonomous community and to the whole sector that if at one time there was too much mouth in the waters of Galicia they would review those fishing possibilities so that we could access that fishing vessel. And that takes him defending Galicia in front of the governments of the People's Party and the governments of the Socialist Party, and we're going to continue to defend it, because the agreements are about to be fulfilled. Government who governs Madrid, the agreements are to be fulfilled. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Mrs. Prado, look, sometimes I think you don't understand what I'm telling you. I say I've been working at the Council for 32 years and in 32 years I never had to get my head down in front of anyone because nobody lied to me. I haven't said I've been marking the roadmap for 32 years; I've been marking the roadmap for the fishing sector since 2009. And that roadmap is giving the results you're giving and the data you're giving, even though you don't want to recognize them. But I don't care what you want to recognize or not, because the data is there and they speak for themselves. Let Mrs Prado, Member of the Galego Nationalist Bloc, come here and tell me what is strategic for Galicia and the fishing sector, when she had the opportunity of the Nationalist Block of Galicia to ask the Fisheries Council for them and did not do so, let her totally discredit it. It's just that I'm not worth it! [[Applause]] It's not worth it! [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] You, dear to fishing, none! for, being Cambados, man!, something else could know. [[Applause]] And come here and tell me that I defend all sectors in front of the smaller arts, so, look, no. In order not to be mistaken and then you can't tell me what I'm lying about, I'm going to read: "Smaller Arts Sector: In 2018 it billed 111 million euros", 30% more than in 2009, when I got to the Government, 30% more billing! Since 2015 we have won 826 crew members in smaller arts, that is, we have increased employment in the lower arts sector by 14.4%. The average billing per crew member in minor arts has increased by 44% since 2009. May you defend the minor arts sector as the People's Party Government, Mrs. Prado, because we'd better go! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I'm not going to talk to him anymore, you have the data -- I've said it many times before -- and I don't want to talk here always about references to the Bipartite. But it only hurts me because I had a bad time, that year 2005, when PSOE and the Block were sharing their advice, but I didn't see that none of them had any interest in the Fisheries Council. Plus, all the boards were distributed, and the fishing game was the last minute of the game, and you obviously didn't want it. [[Murmurs.]] Look, they were also asking me about the way. The data since there's been plans tells us that the way hasn't gone missing in... turn my mother! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yeah, well, I'm going to tell my mother! Download data: the average catch since there is a plan is greater than 12% before the plan exists. Billing data: average billing since there is a plan is only 25% higher than when there is no plan. And the average price data is only 16.6% higher than when there was no plan. So don't tell me to leave the way behind. With representatives of the way the Fisheries Council sat down, we made a plan, we talked to the area of the siege, and they had to come to an agreement so that people in the way could devote themselves to Sardinia at a time when the stock of the sardine really wasn't in a good situation. [[Applause]] What can be said about the sector's loss of abundance in the Sardinian resource? I honestly don't think so. I think fishing species also have their cycles; in fact, I remember whenever the Spanish Institute of Oceanography of Vigo was created 101 years ago, matching the sardine crisis, to give researchers the ability to find out what was going on with the sardine. Then there was again years of great abundance of this species and others of poor abundance. That's what happens when we work with organisms that are in an open environment that can be affected by multiple conditions that are not unique and exclusively related to the fishing sector. That is why I always say that environmental balance must also be balanced with the social and economic part of this sector, because the situation of resources is not always attributable to the situation or fishing effort that these populations are subject to. I don't know if I have much more to explain. Just, Mr. Jupiter, I mean, I'd like you to sometimes not try to fool people. Look, Intemar isn't a purely said research center. Intemar is a quality control centre for Galician production areas. And that center has exactly the money it needs to run in an excellent way, revalidating its accreditations to ENAC year after year and being an example for the whole European Union of how it works and how it does good work. And at the moment that center needs more budget allocation, of course it will be given to it. That center is equipped with the best means, the most advanced, and it counts with the best professionals. Sometimes we don't have the money left. Then, with regard to the non-execution of that game in particular, I have to say that yes, which I too am concerned about; it is a game that appears in the European Maritime Fisheries Fund, where there is little presentation of projects by the sector. We're working with the sector and different departments of the university to try to find common projects that solve certain problems that the sector has and so university researchers can provide their knowledge. On that line we'll keep working. In research, in scientific literature, in socio-economic impact studies, of course you can all be quite calm because there is no one who wins Galicia. That's right, I say our duties come where they come from. And doing scientific studies of migratory species that go beyond our competences, they make it very difficult for me. What I am is at the disposal of the competent administrations so that whatever we can provide from Galicia will continue to contribute. I don't have much more to say, I just want to move that we'll continue until December 16-17 working hard. We will do more to see the social and economic importance of this sector and always go hand in hand with the sector. Mrs. Prado, stay calm, that's not a market, that's not a theater, that's to negotiate, the dog's face, with data, reports, and so be able to bring better results. Don't put it that way. Others who thought you were there and saw how to negotiate. You have to have a lot of arguments to draw reports; it's not worth doing a theater like what you're doing here, trying to trick someone. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u123	Thank you very much, Counselor. We suspended the session until 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u124	Let's resume the session, because if you don't, let's go eat for the service. Agenda development modification
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u125	There's a change in the agenda. We started with the motions, but with 3.4. Motion by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to poverty and social exclusion
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u126	This motion was tabled by two amendments, the Joint Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u127	To formulate the motion, you have the floor to Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u128	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Today we formulate this motion, which is the result of the interpellation which was put forward in the previous plenary session. It's a motion on the fight against poverty, social exclusion and also against aporophobia. What we want with it is to put solutions to this problem, where the Galician Union is laying stones. It is not acceptable, moreover, that in a democratic society in the middle of the 21st century these manifestations of hatred toward the poor, as it is not — even less — even if there are political leaders who stand up, who come out even at the doors of those centres of foreigners who are not accompanied by insults and denigrating them. With the far right, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, there are no ink shares: they either condemn their attitudes and isolate themselves, as is done practically in all the countries of the European Union, or if they are with them, as you are doing right now. Today they have the opportunity to reject those pacts of indignity with the Vox party by voting in favour of the first point of this motion. They can go back to this political force, they can stick to the hook of a political force that is xenophobic, that is racist and that denigrates unaccompanied minors, or they can turn their backs at once. This is an extensive motion, because we believe that the fight against poverty is a cross-cutting issue, which cannot be confined to the area of the Social Policy Council, cannot be isolated. The Foesa report itself points out that two of the dimensions that most influence people at risk of poverty or social exclusion are precisely employment and housing. We believe that in this government there is a real multi-organic failure to address this serious problem, there is disunity between the different areas of the Greek Government, both in the taking of measures and in the launching of them. We therefore intend to put in place a true strategy of fighting against poverty and social exclusion so that more than one hundred and eighty thousand Greeks and Greeks will come out of this situation, which are the ones now at this risk, but also to prevent that figure from continuing to rise, to place a true social mattress on the more than 300 thousand citizens and citizens in this country who, in the face of any change in the country's own economy, would be plunged into the abyss of extreme need. A social integration income that with the system that we have in our autonomous community is not working, that cannot be properly compatible with precarious jobs or reach new horizons for that work integration. This is the only way to explain that, while there is now a rebound of the AROPE rate, if you go to the number of applicants for this integration income, and there are even now forty-seven municipalities where there is not one single person who required it; and also that, three months after starting up, you only have this new transition to employment three hundred people and that only 16.5% of those who fail to perceive this income of integration have access to other economic resources. We propose to put in place a genuine minimum income program, which is compatible with wages, which extends this aid to children of families with needs and that it do so progressively, with the objective of reaching 2020 by 6 years and 15 years on a defined horizon. As long as this minimum income is not implemented, we also propose that there be outreach campaigns in those areas of our autonomous community where there are larger poverty bags, and also a real shock plan for households without any income. We also consider in this motion child education not only a vital resource for reconciling work and family life, but also a tool for compensating these tremendous inequalities that exist, a means to ensure that the disadvantages with which some children and children come, as we all know, to formal education are overcome. And we therefore demand that this fragile network of public infant schools be provided until access constitutes a subjective and universal right, increasing the number of public squares that we have claimed on numerous occasions in this chamber, but also ensuring that on the horizon of 2024 50% of children and children in our autonomous community do not pay for children. Lack of employment or instability and precarious work is another factor that, according to Caritas, influences negatively, pushing the Greeks and the Greeks to fall into the pit of poverty. It must be borne in mind that today in Galicia, as regards 2008, there are thirty-four thousand more people with wages of less than EUR 370. This issue has to be key in the fight against poverty, giving priority to the most disadvantaged groups: young people, women, long-term unemployed. For this reason, what we are asking for in this motion is to encourage this indefinite recruitment, to promote a plan to control labour abuse, to provide the Public Employment Service as well as to include also a plan for the dynamization and support of self-employed people, as well as to put in place a genuine plan for the generation of the Italian economy. The other dimension that most affects, according to the Caritas' own report, the risk of social exclusion or poverty, the exit of full integration, is housing. As far as housing is concerned, we are really bad in this autonomous community. In one year the Galician Union made exactly eight public housings, when the demand rose in that year; the increase was two thousand and fifty people a year. It is therefore necessary to multiply the current housing park by two to five years. We don't say anything new, this was adopted in the debate on the state of Autonomy of 2018 and it turns out we've found that, as usual, it's not being complied with, the German Government is not fulfilling a resolution from this chamber. And also meet all demands for housing help in rent for vulnerable collectives, which contemplates the State Housing Plan itself. Galicia only covers 12.5% of rent applications registered in this autonomous community. If we say that housing is important, the tip of the iceberg of the lack of housing, perhaps also of the situation of social exclusion itself, is centogarism. The attention of these people must be improved. Galicia is in the queue of investment in centres and care services for homeless people, both in this and in the implementation of the method of symphony. So we're asking for an increase in that investment, too, and we're looking at the post when we have at least 20 homes in this program before this legislation is over. Because the strategy, which has not yet been put in place but which has been published in this matter, is not ambitious at all; it's quite the opposite; it's a patch that hasn't come to solve the most serious ejacism that this autonomous community has with these people. In short, more resources to combat the multi-organic failure of the Galician Union to fight poverty, against social exclusion, and also, of course, as I said at the beginning of my intervention, against aporophobia, of course yes. A new design of global public policies, not focusing exclusively on the Council of Social Policy, which involves all areas of the Greek Government, where decent employment, access to housing and the direct, effective assistance to people who are going through the worst are no longer a utopia and become a reality. Nothing more for now and thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u129	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanco. We moved on to the groups. You have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u130	We put forward our vote in favour of this motion, regardless of what happens to the amendments. For us the speech of hatred against impoverished people, and in their most infamous version, which is against unaccompanied foreign children, floats on a real fund of social inequality that the exit of the crisis in macroeconomic terms has not resolved; on the contrary, social inequality and precariousness have been strengthened. Certainly, a democracy should not allow actions that are of genuine hatred for these collectives, but it should not tolerate poverty either. This is also a debate on the nature of democracy, which goes back to 1792. For us, in our country, there is an essential element that measures the impact of inequality and injustice, which is the weight of waged labour on the whole of GDP, which has brutally diminished in a decade. If in 2009 in the country it represented almost half of GDP, in 2018 it is 42.4%, and it is one of the lowest levels in the state. Thus, the income of the work has been reduced. There are already many reports that account for this reality. In 2017 the Economic and Social Council itself said that the effects of growth in the economy at the macro level since 2014 are not seen in a large stock market of people at risk of poverty and exclusion in the country, especially women, households with underage, children and youth. In this way, seeing also the latest data from the Welsh Network against poverty, we see that Galicia is an anomaly in the North Peninsula, it is the autonomous community with the greatest risk of poverty. The risk of poverty — it is true — is lower than the state average, but, looking at the geographic location where we stand, we have to say that it remains a northern anomaly, along with Cantabria, and the poverty risk rate, according to the AROPE indicator, in 2018 to 23%; we speak of 622,294 people, and that has increased over the previous year. We therefore agree that it is a structural phenomenon. They buy silent measures, clear mobilization of public resources, a global strategy to combat inequality and a comprehensive strategy, of course, that should cover all councils. Of course, the last two reports from both the German Network against Poverty and that Foesa report continue to abound in confirming this inequality. The Foesa report clearly confirms the progress of this inequality. The increase in the population in a situation of precarious integration, which is called, has increased to 41.6%. Nearly one in five people, about four hundred and seventy thousand, were in moderate or severe exclusion in 2019. There were Caritas in this report, some 350,000 people who were totally helpless in the face of a new crisis. In this sense, the proposed measures are a number of points that we agree with, and in fact, we have already brought initiatives in the same direction. On that vital minimum income, we agree that we have to change the Risk model to a model that is actually compatible with the job. Because we remember that until March 2019 the decree that made Risk compatible with jobs did not come into force, but the data make us think that it will follow Risk without covering all the people who need it, is insufficient and ineffective. In view of the 2018 data, with the applications that have been made, Risga only covered 1.6 % of the population at risk of poverty. And we remember that the benefit continues to leave out migrant persons in a situation of administrative irregularity. In addition, another of Risga's data confirms that feminization of poverty, which is also seen in all reports, which reflect that women are almost 62.3% of beneficiaries, are the main beneficiaries; and specifically, they are more at risk of monomantal families. A low-income home crash plan is essential. In 2017 34,700 homes were in this situation. Severe poverty is greater than in 2008. It is essential to note that our country has one of the highest rates of homeless people and that, even though since 2015, there is a framework that obliges us to advance in that first housing methodology, in those housing plans for those who do not have it, for those who are most excluded from the housing, we are at the end of 2019 and we continue to be queued in this service. In general, politics at home are of emptiness. 35.3% of people have difficulty accessing housing. And this also relates to the precariousness of youth, precariousness in employment, delay in emancipation and the impossibility of making a life project. Anyway, the amendment that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u131	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u132	...we introduced it has to do with the need for specific plans for monomantal families, and also for the poverty of older people, which has increased tremendously in recent years.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u133	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez Verao. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado Cores has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u134	Good afternoon. We greet the representative of the Network to Fight Poverty, who I see is accompanying us from the rostrum. Indeed, poverty, far from being a conjunctive problem, is becoming a structural problem, so it is also necessary to act with structural measures. Starting with the first point of this motion presented today by the Socialist Party, we actually agree that it is important to say, loud and clear, that we must fight against all those who want to criminalize the victims of poverty, far from acting against those responsible for that poverty, and to blame those who suffer the consequences of the political measures taken and who make every time thousands of people fall into that poverty situation. Convert them into the focus of the target of criticism can serve as an escape valve for certain social groups, but, of course, from the BNG we will always fight these kinds of actions without any kind of palliatives. He said the proponent must put on a social mattress to fight poverty. And we, of course, have defended and brought on many occasions structural measures to resolve this issue. We agree with the general content of the motion because, indeed, poverty is a cross-cutting issue. And sometimes, when we share poverty, it seems to be less poverty; when we talk about energy poverty, it seems to be less poverty; when we talk about homeless people, it seems to be another collective; but, in fact, they are people who have no resources to have a decent life; and if they don't have resources, they can't turn on heating; if they don't have resources, they can't live; and if they don't have resources, they can't have adequate food. And then that transversality is necessary. We tabled two amendments, because we wanted to focus on two questions. All data from the reports we have — whether from the ESC or from the AROPE report, or from Foesa — continue to keep poverty levels at levels, of course, that in the BNG we consider impossible: 23% of people at risk of poverty or exclusion in Galicia; that severe poverty has increased by 1.4 points from 2008 to 2018, and that is one hundred and twenty-eight thousand people is a real drama. As the Foesa report actually pointed out, although it is true that there are a number of people who at this stage of sudden recovery after the crisis are minimally integrated, they are integrated in such an unstable way that any minimal variation will take them forward. It's estimated that there might be 300 thousand people in that situation. And within people at risk, people over 65 are very clear; along with youth and women, they are the ones most at risk of being in this situation. That's why our first amendment is complementing the Socialist Party's submission to claim to the Spanish Government the payment of more than 198 million euros corresponding to the cuts accumulated with Galicia, the application of the Royal Decree 20/2012, adopted by the People's Party, but the measures and the lack of payments remain there. And, indeed, there is a policy of the People's Party to address people at risk, in a dependency situation, with low-cost resources, but there is certainly a very important debt. Just like the commitment, recognized by law, that the State has to fund 50% of the attention to the dependency, and it's not doing it. That's why we demand this question. And not only are you doing it, but on the part of the state, they rule guns or trojans, because they put 91 million for dependency, taken through the system via IRPF, IV collection and the others, 156.9 million; that is, it makes box with dependency in Galicia, 65.9 million. I mean, it seems to us that this situation cannot be maintained. And then we also tabled an amendment in the sense that the best fight and the best social mattress...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u135	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u136	...is the subject of having a decent wage, a wage that allows people to develop their life plan. And for that, we need to get rid of the work reforms that allow...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u137	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u138	...a legislative framework that favours not having those decent wages but a framework of precarious and poor wages.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u139	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u140	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] On the part of the Left Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Quinteiro Araújo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u141	Thank you. We will support this motion. In relation also to the first point, we must not fail to point out the need for the People's Party to clarify and divide once and for all and clearly with whom it is making racist speeches, speeches that are favoring hatred and even aggression with the most disadvantaged. You can't be, as the PSdEG voicer said, on both sides. And we also believe that when we talk about exclusion and poverty, it should be one of the most important emergencies and priorities of the Greek Government. And, therefore, to shorten this situation we need cross-sectional measures and not just patches. We have seen for many years how, above all, the so-called economic crisis has only served to deepen these inequalities that already existed. And we've also been spending a decade of a lot of public policies that all they're doing is leaving more and more people behind, leaving them out, excluded, in a more serious way, many people. And the data does not give rise to any doubt. We have more and more homes in our country where not one person earns income, more than 20% of the population in Greece is at risk of poverty and social exclusion. And we also see this new phenomenon of what we also talk about on many occasions, which are the poor workers, people who have a job, who have at times even two jobs and who don't get the minimum wage to survive, to pay a housing, to pay the bills, to have a food. Because the reality of the German labour market, and in general, is crossed by the precariousness of an absolute way and by wages that are totally impossible to reach by the end of the month. There are more and more part-time jobs, it is more and more common for people to be hired for months, weeks and even days; and really, how do we expect the private market to have another model of recruitment when we have these last two labour reforms and when we have above all examples within the administration itself that favor and perpetuate a model of exactly the same day-to-day contracts? The theme of housing is also a recurring theme in this parliament. And it's a shame that the People's Party comes here, as it sometimes does, to take a closer look at its housing policy. There are many people in our country who do not have access to a decent housing. None of the Galician Joint programs are being implemented. There's a rise in the prices of brutal renters, and the only measure of the People's Party is not to do anything at all and say it can't be regulated. They don't mobilize empty housing, and the data they give are ridiculous figures compared to the demand that exists. And behind this data there are many people, people with names and names, who have very different lives but crossed by this common denominator, which is inequality and exclusion. It is still happening — and it is an absolute failure as a society — that people die without having a place to live, that people are malnourished because they have no money to be able to feed themselves in a healthy way. In our opinion, reforming the current model of support for homeless people is not coming. We must also promote a model that favors autonomy; we are not making charity, is that the right to a decent housing, the right to public services is that, rights, it's not charity. And these rights are not being guaranteed in our country. The same is true when we talk about Risk, which is for another debate that would give us much more than five minutes to talk about. The current template needs to be reworded. But, of course, in an emergency aid for people who have no resources, two-three months of processing or more, what do those people do for three months? Because it might seem little to us, but when a person is without a euro, because that's why they can access the Risk, what do they do for those three months? There's got to be some sort of emergency mechanism so there's no one who's going through any trouble ever. And the People's Party loves to talk and say that it defends families, but I'm wondering, what families? Because many families, like single-parent families, are excluded. For all the decisions they have made in recent times, such as, of course, the subject of the Verín hospital, the truth is that it's not quite clear what families are defending. They also speak of the defense of the most vulnerable groups, such as women and youth, but all policies in recent years have increased gender inequalities in a very alarming way. Women are working in a much more precarious way than men, women are following us taking care of all this care work in a free way. And that also makes women have lower pensions, pensions with which they can't reach...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u142	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u143	...at the end of the month, etc. In short, as I said, of course, we will support this initiative...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u144	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u145	I'm done, the president's very strict.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u146	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u147	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. This motion tabled today by the Socialists' Parliamentary Group has, in particular, sixteen points: fifteen points on social policy, a point on a political issue — in particular, on the matter of pacts. And, of course, we want to make something clear today, I think we have left it on other occasions, but, of course, today we want to make it clear that we will never be in a government that promotes racism, xenophobia and aporophobia; that we will never be in a government that stigmatizes and criminalizes unaccompanied minors. We're not going to be in a government with those who represent the politics of xenophobia and racism in Spain and who consider that Spaniards are beasts with severe DNA tares. And, of course, we're not going to be in a government with those who were convicted of terrorism and who have now become men of peace. And, as we are sure that neither do you, we hope that we will be allowed to vote in favour of this point, because we believe that all the parliamentary groups that we are in this House think the same thing. [[Applause]] What's curious is that the Socialist Party again today talks about Vox's crochet when it's just given up that health cord to secure the first vice-presidency of the Congress of Deputies. It may be, perhaps, we suspect that it may be that when it is appropriate for them to adopt the thesis of Mr. Méndez Romeo, of more political and less sanitary cordon, and when they do not need to rescue the famous sanitary cordon and come here to talk about Vox's crochet. [[Murmurs.]] It must be that they don't need to talk about the health cord today, perhaps. [[Applause]] Because look, to talk about fighting poverty and social exclusion, what we have to talk about is basically budgets. And the Galician Union spends 120 million euros this year to fight poverty and social exclusion. Galicia is the only community that has a unique social agenda, which was signed by the Galician Union, by the Fegamp and the Galician Network of Fight Against Poverty. In order to fight poverty and social exclusion, the commitment of the Government of the State is also fundamental, which does not happen to Galicia. Because they just cut EUR 400,000 for child poverty funds and 423,000 went to zero for unaccompanied minors. But today we bring here a motion to request that the Galician Union increase those funds for unaccompanied minors, when from its state government what they do is to cut these funds to zero. [[Murmurs.]] Today in Galicia there are more resources than ever before for the Risk, specifically nearly sixty-five million euros, three times more than there were ten years ago. And there's a trend shift, which is something the opposition doesn't want to talk about. Since 2017, a decrease in the number of Risga requests was estimated to be 11%. For the first time since 2015, the number of people who perceive is below the 10,000. The new Risga decree increases its content and facilitates the path to employment. But today the Socialist Party wants us to forget this risk in Galicia and implement the minimum vital income, which, according to the Socialist Party, is only for people or families without income that receive no benefit. Of course, we're sure that the Greeks who need and receive this Risga prefer to collect a social inclusion income guaranteed by the Galician Union in order to find a job to be paid only by people and families who do not receive any income. That's right, you agree if what you want is the minimum vital income or the universal income that you've been asking for not so long. And what we need is more resources for families and reconciliation. Look, Galicia is the first, the first autonomous community that introduces the 100% freeness to all families with two or more children and to 100% of children's schools, and without any kind of co-financing by the state, the only autonomous community in Spain with the 100% freeness of families with two or more children. The goal? Indeed, what the Socialist Party calls for: total freeness for all families in Galicia. That's why we need the commitment of the central government, which in its programme said that universalization would be established...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u148	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u149	...—end, Mr President—of child education from 0 to 3 years. So they work together with the autonomous communities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u150	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u151	...so that all families can have their children's childhood school free of charge. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u152	Thank you very much. For the motion's own group, Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u153	Thank you, President. First, thank you for the support of the Left Joint Group. We will try, Mrs Prado, to deal with the amendment you tabled and we accept the amendment of the Joint Group. Well, here said the spokeswoman of the People's Party, well, said many lies, things as they are. I think the data is always interpretable, but he said they didn't deal with xenophobic parties. [[Murmurs.]] Andalucía, Madrid and Murcia. You're from the People's Party, aren't you? You're from the People's Party. [[Murmurs.]] Today it's a year's worth from the Andalucian government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u154	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u155	A year of government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u156	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u157	...with xenophobic, macho people who are attacking less foreigners...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u158	Quiet, Mrs. Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u159	...unaccompanied, like his partner, his partner, that not our partner, his, in the Community of Madrid, Mrs. Monasterio... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u160	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u161	...insulting unaccompanied foreigners. By the way, unaccompanied minors, another lie from the People's Party, the most serious. Ladies and gentlemen, the first time in the history of this country that the Government of Spain has collaborated with the autonomous communities to accommodate unaccompanied minors was with the Socialist Government of Pedro Sánchez. It was 40 million euros... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u162	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u163	...for the autonomous communities through a royal decree, which Galicia touched exactly EUR 426,063.4. So, Madam, you should correct your statement. [[Murmurs.]] By the way, unaccompanied, unaccompanied minors who are obviously more welcome in the communities of the south, of course we are; we are not going to make that comparison. Yeah, of course, but with the northern ones, we're also in line. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There are more unaccompanied foreigners in Cantabria, Navarra and Euskadi than in this autonomous community. So stop bragging about this, because they can't. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And then the People's Party comes here to teach lessons...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u164	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u165	...to combat child poverty, which is already the end, when Mr. Rajoy left this country with 28.3% of the rate of child poverty, eight points more than the European average and only below the social model countries like Romania and Bulgaria; we were only behind them when we took the Government of Spain. That's why we had to start up in the first months of summer a help so that many children in this country could eat three times a day and open those school dining rooms. So lessons from fighting child poverty, not one, not the first. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Look...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u166	Quiet, that's it!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u167	Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, you can't blow and snort at once, it's not compatible. It's not compatible to be ruling with extreme right-wing forces, being caught, and I'm not going to say nonsense anymore, is that you're already lying directly with the extreme right in many autonomous communities and they would also be doing it here and they'll do it if they have the chance.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u168	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u169	They don't fool anyone, because there's a background, and those are their party mates for so much that they sometimes try to deny them, but they're...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u170	Finish, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u171	...members of the People's Party, and we are convinced, because this has always happened, that if you give them the numbers, they will do the same here. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u172	Thank you very much. We moved on to the next motion. G.P. motion. Joint Left Group, at the initiative of Da Maria de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and Da Luca Chao Pérez, on the actions to be carried out in Galicia regarding the attention to the diversity of the student in the teaching centres
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u173	Two amendments were tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u174	To formulate the motion, you have the floor to Mrs. Cuña Bóveda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u175	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. Today, I don't know if they know -- whether there's a chance or not -- that we celebrate a day that we've considered as a very important day since our group -- twenty-seven years ago that the UN decided to dedicate December 3 to the International Day of Persons with Disabilities. I pretended to be people because we talk about people, we don't talk about diseases. To understand that we talk about people means that we can understand a lot. If we talk about Arturo, if we talk about Tamara, if we talk about Eve, if we talk about Xano, if we put a face on them, if we put a body on them, if we put rights on them, the same as us, all of these people, the focus of attention to diversity and the focus, the need and the right of inclusion change. The 2030 Agenda, which we've already talked about in the interpellation and which the advisor said if she was interested in getting engaged, commit us to all states. One hundred and eighty countries have signed the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. What does an international treaty mean — I repeat —? Well, it means in the legal hierarchy that only the Constitution has. This means that if the Spanish State, if all communities have a legal obligation to comply with this international agreement, we must adapt our laws to these guidelines. Each person is unique, worthy of respect, deserves appreciation. The concept of inclusion goes further than the concept of integration. It's not just about including, getting in, physically taking children with special educational needs, which is simply a variation of what we understand for special needs of educational care — and I apologize here because there's a grate in the motion: put "nea" and have to put "neae", that is, special needs of educational care -- that's what we're talking about. And we speak of a right, the same right that our children and girls, boys and girls with and without disabilities, are the same rights. This naturally involves a very profound modification of the system itself to guarantee those rights. Although access is collected by law, it is a battle that goes beyond the law itself. It's a battle that we have to wage with social awareness and resources. It is very important that such compliance should be developed. I think this whole thing, this slogan this year, which is "not leaving anyone behind" and empowering people, people with disabilities, should be common to all political groups. It's one of the first-largest social challenges. Finally, we set eight points on our motion. The first is to avoid discrimination. Discrimination exists, it is a fact that is clear and evident. How is discrimination eliminated? Ensuring support. And how are support guaranteed? With which it is well conceived as a reasonable adjustment, it is perfectly defined. It consists of individualised determination. What do you mean, individualized? That young people and girls, children and girls don't have to adapt to the system, it's the system that should do a tailor-made suit in the light of individualities, putting material resources, making real accessibility, real adaptation and doing individualized support — that's possible — and also ensuring that centres are equipped according to these individual needs. No, we have so many centers and there! we make an arithmetic table. No, it depends precisely and strictly on those needs. Not only must we take care, which is of course what we are obliged by the law itself, in rank the second most important, above the LOE, above our decree and above any of the other laws. We must also consider two issues that we consider from the Joint Group on the Vital Left. One is the assessments and assessments made by the United Nations by the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which is the responsibility of the United Nations to monitor compliance and which has actually made demolition reports — and Galicia does not suffocate, Galicia is also within this framework — at the level of non-compliance, really a condemnation of systematic discrimination and institutional discrimination against persons with disabilities. Fast enumeration: one speaks of the prevalence of a clinical model, which is obsolete, which should not be; of a lack of rights; of the need to abolish laws and modify them; of very little progress, very limited; of equality and the real need for professional training of specialists in a policy that really guarantees full respect. This has to be incorporated into the legal system and applied, not just enough to incorporate it. This concept that we put on is reasonable adjustment, is perfectly defined in a law that benefits us all and everyone, which is the Law of equality, non-discrimination and universal accessibility. We are all beneficiaries, because either one of us can have an accident tomorrow and really need this law; that is, we are all beneficiaries of this universal accessibility law. There it is perfectly defined in the LIONDAU. Updating the decree is an obvious matter. The decree has things that are good with regard to inclusion, but there are, and the first eiva is in the first article, which says inclusion is a principle, and what the Convention says is that it is a right. This has to be transformed, because, even if the battle is to be fought in many fronts, this is a necessity. We believe that we are asking for something absolutely congruent and deep, and it is not superficial, and it is grounded and also strictly, as you usually say: it is rigorous analysis. However, Decree 229/2011 must be amended. The key is not to target children with this argument: we have 90% of students with special educational needs, not special needs — which is different — of educational care — which is what we are talking about, with the true inclusion — who are educated. It's not enough. It's not the number, it's the reality, and reality goes through real participation at all levels of the system. We also propose to create a Galego Inclusion Observatory, because with an observatory we would have empirical data, and we really have full competence in education. So we would have objective data to assess whether we really are the most inclusive community, finding that inclusion in Spain is worth spending time; that is, we don't say it to the UN. Removing territorial differences is logical and so it is done in other countries in the environment and comparative pedagogy actually throws light on this matter. And there are countries that have made a lot of progress by grouping resources and personnel. To develop permanent training plans, to include families in decision-making, and not only families, but also collectives working for inclusion. Generalising early attention detection is another of the most important issues. And, of course, to transform special centers, which perform a very important role. But it is the committee itself that says that students should not be segregated, that in all evaluations and studies when children are segregated from small children, the consequences of larger ones are harmful to society as a whole. So by valuing these special education centers that have developed and continue to develop commendable work, what is recommended is progressive transformation, which is viable.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u176	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u177	That's where we got here. Then we'll talk for three more minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u178	Thank you very much, Mrs. Acuña. You have the floor for the Mixed Group, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u179	Of course, we're going to support the motion. It is an absolute challenge to include education, and we emphasize that word; indeed, inclusion goes beyond integration and it is about developing a global work on the real integration of diversity. As the motion does, we must frame all these measures in the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities — today is the world day of these people too, by the way — which sets out the objectives of all people's social inclusion, of the right of all people, as they are, to full citizenship, as regards education in the right to develop their potential. So we agree with the initiative that inclusion is a right and that to ensure rights buy resources and get planning. And among the measures that are being taken, we agree with those that propose the motion, and I also explain why we tabled the amendment. The reality that has to do with attention to special educational needs has highlighted this course, because we have seen these numerous complaints from ANPA for a lack of planning for the staffing of sufficient staff. Even we've seen it in the recent people's Valedora report, and this is one of the main complaints. And who is on the street -- let's say -- always sees that what's behind is a lack of planning for special educational needs; not all are survivors in each course, much of them could be planned. And also what we detect and share with the initiative is that, as far as criteria are concerned, a caretaker does not always arrive for five students or students with special needs. And we need to address these individualized realities — as the proposal pointed out — because full integration, inclusion, is precisely that: to ensure that everyone can develop their potentials according to their capabilities. Finally, it also highlights the attention staff to special educational needs because of a total lack of stability. We must guarantee the stability of this staff, and this is essential. He also saw this course being born a specific ANPA for students with special educational needs. It seems to us a struggle and a very commendable initiative. We believe that the German Government must respond by really attending to that UN convention in relation to persons with disabilities. It is not worth boasting to be theoretically the autonomous community with more inclusive education because it has the majority of schoolchildren when there are even occasions when parents and mothers take on jobs to ensure inclusion. The education system must be provided with resources. In this way, it is also essential to move forward in early detection; that is why it is essential to strengthen the Community's early-care network. This is where the inequality of the territory stands out, because there are places — and the province of Lugo is an example — where there is a total lack of proximity services. More professionals are also lacking in these specific guidance teams to ensure that diagnoses are as early as possible — worth redundancy — because this is also essential after the activation of the mechanisms that allow the student to be included as soon as possible. And there is also the situation that the lack of these resources makes it possible for families to derive precisely from private resources. What we proposed in the amendment — I said — was that it would be necessary to frame all of these measures — as the ANPAs propose — in a plan for education in terms of diversity, and that is why we make that amendment of addition, because they would be used in a mechanism that would allow what the motion proposes as well: including both families and students, the entire educational community, in decision-making. But, in short, we agree with the proposed measures and we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u180	Thank you, Mrs. Verao. On behalf of the Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u181	Thank you very much, Madam President. On this motion, firstly — and without any courage but to clarify — what are we talking about when we refer to students with diversity? Because many times we've been filled with ideas as if we've known them in depth, in this and other things, and we're actually talking simple and plainly about the student that needs and should receive a different educational attention from the ordinary. Unlike ordinary people, because they have special educational needs, which you have referred to, because of specific learning difficulties, because of ADHD, because of their high intellectual capacities, because they are late in the education system, which is also a percentage not very relevant in this autonomous community, but if relevant in the context of the state, or because of their personal or school history. And ensuring equal opportunities for all in the field of education remains a challenge on a global scale, to which Mrs Cuña made absolutely clear reference. In fact, it is one of the objectives of sustainable development, namely number 4, when it is expected that by 2030 — when I say here I am not referring to today but to when they were established — the gender disparities in education are eliminated and equal access and process is ensured at all levels of education and vocational training for vulnerable people, including people with disabilities, in particular — even if they do not affect us here — indigenous peoples and children in situations of vulnerability. And the Convention on Combating Discrimination in Education, already in 1960 — therefore, fifty-nine years ago — and other international human rights treaties prohibit all forms of exclusion or restriction of opportunities in the field of education, based on accepted or perceived social differences — which are different — such as sex, ethnic or social origin, language, religion, nationality, economic position or even attitudes of each of them. And it is necessary to reach the excluded groups by one way or another, and it is therefore essential to develop and implement appropriate education policies and programmes. And the advance towards the most inclusive practices — which, as it has been said here, is not the same as integrated, or by far — is an extraordinaryly complex matter, it is neither a quick process nor free of difficulties. And that's why it's important to make changes in educational practices (at different levels: in the centers, in the classrooms and at the individual level with the student) that develop daily in the educational centers. I'm not going to talk here about the extensive scientific literature that collects questions and experiments and successful experiences — and therefore those that should be referred to — to enlighten us — in the best sense of the term — all others when it comes to putting into practice some kind of specific policy. And we need to be aware that there is a percentage -- some cyclical studies in 10%, others think this figure is excessive -- of school population that may have different developmental or learning disorders, and in which research has shown that in many cases these small deficiencies or difficulties are related to certain brain dysfunctions that are not particularly serious, and therefore they are avoidable with a proper educational response. But also - and going to the specific case of Spain, and then I will talk about Galicia - the percentage of pupils with special educational needs that receive support is 2.7% of the student, according to the State Education Indicator System, recently published by the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training, presenting the highest percentages in public schools, 2.9%, and 2.7% of the student with regard to concerted education. And we will surely hear here that Galicia is the most inclusive educational community, but — I repeat — it is not the same as being the most inclusive of all students. Because, obviously, it's with 92.4% — nine points more than the state average — but — I repeat — it's not as far from autonomous communities as Valencia, like Murcia or Navarra, which also have a very relevant foreign student percentage and therefore require a different educational response. Problems that have already been referred to here, such as human resources, that tension that each course, in particular, we see to get professors specialists in Therapeutic Pedagogy or in Hearing and Language, which end up solving when they go public or public pressure is high. So if they were needed before, they're still after; and if they weren't needed, they're not after. If the orientation departments of the centers are composed of professionals whose worth was no doubt, they are also valid...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u182	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u183	...—Finished, President—when they demand more resources. In any case, our amendment knows it, and it refers, firstly, to special education centres to act as resource centres, and then to establish a protocol for the participation of pupils' families with this type of needs to be identical in all centres. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u184	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. On behalf of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u185	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. I'll try not to repeat myself. There are a lot of issues that have been coming out throughout the interventions that we have been agreeing with since our group, especially in relation to that difference between inclusion and integration. What can't be in any case — and taking the thread of that — is that integration is conceived as a street of unique meaning. And, taking Mrs. Cuña's words in her oral presentation, when she was talking about that more than 90 percent of the student with specific educational needs is now enrolled in our country — and so should it — in ordinary centres, the simple fact that the student is incorporated into ordinary centres, if he is not equipped with the necessary human resources of support, staff of Therapeutic Pedagogy, of Hearing and Language, or any other figure or specialist that is necessary, if these human resources and material resources are not guaranteed, that integration will be a one-way street, but it will not guarantee true inclusion. And attention to diversity in a broad sense, as Mrs Cuña also formulated in her speech, in addition to a right, of course, is a sine qua non condition, absolutely, if we want to guarantee a society that is fair, a society that is fair and truly democratic. And the truth is that in our country this, with all that has been advanced — which I think is good to acknowledge — has not yet been achieved, as Mr Álvarez explained. In fact, I think this was one of the issues that most of the BNG focused on, at least on, the attendance of the Education Counsellor on the basis of the start of the school course, and the other opposition groups also raised questions on this. This actual and effective inclusion of the student group is not being guaranteed to meet the diversity that exists in our country today in the educational centres. In fact, we saw as last week, if I do not remember correctly, at the end of November, once again the complaints of the educational community, trade union organizations and families, because there are educational centres which, having recognized in our country within the catalogue the figures of these specialties, especially PT and AL, and — I insist — despite having recognized these specialists in their catalogue, did not have him. This was the case, for example, with CEIP Wenceslao Fernández Flórez, in Cambre, or with CEIP Alfredo Brañas, from Paiosaco, in Laracha. And this is against, first, what the Education Council signed with trade union organizations in the field of diversity in 2007, but also the decree that regulates the attention to the diversity of students in our country's educational centres, Decree 229/2011, passed by a government of the People's Party. Article 38, for example, where human resources are talked about, to guarantee these squares that are catalogued and to take it, even if it is not seen in the catalogues, to those educational centres where, having a student with diversity who needs those professionals and those specialists, it contains with him. We agree that the regulatory framework needs to be updated, but above all, from the BNG what we believe is that we must comply with, we must execute the one that has been approved for years. And I insist, for example, that Decree 229 provides for continuous, permanent training for the whole of our country's teachers to meet this diversity that we find in our classrooms. Article 42 also provides for the participation of families throughout the whole process of the educational community to ensure precisely that inclusion, but what we see is that reality goes in many cases in a completely contrary sense. We're going to support the motion. We feel it is important to talk about this issue and continue to move forward in a society, in public education in this more inclusive country — and I come back to the beginning — by a question of individual and collective rights for people of different backgrounds, but above all in the construction of a fair, equitable and, above all, democratic society. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u186	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. On behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u187	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Mrs. Cuña, I listened carefully to your questioning the other day to the advisor and I agree with you on two questions. The first, that attention to diversity is complex and the second, which is a priority theme while it is a challenge for any government, but from there, Mrs. Cuña, allow me to disagree. You've asked for reports, and when you're given data here, which are alien to the Greek Government, as they're positive, you're generally rejecting them. They say that the Government boasts, and indeed it is to boast, and I have to say this here: the Autonomous Community of Galicia, in data from the Ministry of Education, shows that it is the community that has the highest percentage of students with special educational needs integrated into ordinary centres. And this data has to be said, because it indicates that you are favoring equal opportunities, and you want to minimize this fact. And it's also to boast that the Report on Educational Equity in Spain, regional comparison concludes that Galicia is Spain's most equitable region, with better results than other OECD countries such as Finland, Canada or Norway, which are usually relevant. Mrs. Cuña, ladies and gentlemen, today we know the data from the PISA 2018 report and the Welsh education system is being reinforced. So we have to recognize the good data, and that doesn't mean we're buying, because we're aware that there's a lot to do. Look, the advisor has often explained that the Galician model to meet the diversity part of an integral approach, where legislation is combined with educational innovation, the formation of teaching bodies and the provision of more resources. Resources, a word that you also named a lot here this afternoon. And there's more resources than a decade ago. The professionals specialized in caring for diversity today in public education in Galicia are more than three thousand and five hundred; that is, one in ten professionals in education are dedicated to specialized education. Mrs. Cuña, ladies and gentlemen, the advisor in your speech has advanced that the board is working on the 2020-2025 inclusion strategy, which will include measures like what you were asking for today, because you have changed your speech a little bit today. Measures to update and regulate attention to diversity — the famous decree. Measures to promote the schooling of students of specific educational needs in ordinary or combined schools, but also measures to encourage special education centres as centres of attention to special educational needs and as educational resource centres, but without forgetting that parents and mothers must have the freedom of choice; even at times the student chooses the type of center where he feels better. Measured as a formative shock plan for people who are specialists in caring for diversity, particularly caregivers. And measures of collaboration with the educational community and the associative tissue to strengthen inclusive culture, to make it visible. Award for good educational practices or sport promotion, sports activities as part of the personal and educational training of the special education student. Mrs. Cuña, this comprehensive vision affects other self-government departments. The Union's effort has allowed the launching of sixteen early care units, which provide service in ninety-two municipalities. And the Social Policy Council made this year 2019 available to Councils 1.6 million euros, 17% more, because early attention is a task of everyone and the municipal administration, because it is closer to the citizen, it also has its role, as must be the social initiative entities of the disability field, with whom it works closely, for example with the Galaga Association of Temperá Care, which launched three units of attention in the 10th, Salnés and Bergantinos districts, thanks to an agreement signed with the Social Policy Council. And this means not marketing but working, weaving networks and cooperating in the field of inclusion. And you understand that you have to follow UNESCO's directions, too, but you understand it only in what they're interested in. What can you tell me about indicative strategy 34, which calls for the design of formative evaluations as an integral part of the teaching and learning processes at all levels? That doesn't matter to them, that has to be eradicated, that is to be suppressed by law. Your Honor, we recognize what we have and from there, as Mrs Rodil has done, let us make consistent and stable educational policies, which enable us to form the country's future on the path of equality, equity and inclusion. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u188	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio Vilasánchez. On the part of the motion's group, you have the floor of Mrs. Cuña Bóveda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u189	Thank you, Madam President. Too bad, we don't have a celebration day! First of all, first of all, thank the three groups, the Joint Group, the Socialist Party of Galicia and the BNG for their complementary vision. And I think it's also interesting to feel tuned with respect to the defence of rights, which should be common. There's no name and there's an explanation, there's no pure interest here, Mrs. Antón Vilasanchez, and there's no change, it's consistent with the interpellation. We know the real situation, there are many affected centers, and of course I'm going to give little answers or nuances to what my companions and companions have already said. Many people, many squares that were at the beginning of the course without attending. After the demands, yes, as a result, they called intrinities, some half a day. And if there's a road gone, it doesn't mean that the road is finished and, of course, there's a lot to be done. That they don't recognize this for us from now on has a meaning, of course. You're twisting your school diplomas, for example. It has to be said that there is a difference between the special educational needs, which are one of the cases within the specific educational needs, are reported, are named, we're not going to say them again. And even if you recognize AT in your dictation, you don't help the children. For example, on the subject of caregivers and caregivers, the Greek administration is discriminating against the student of educational care needs, specific needs. There's been a sharp attack on the student and on the student with difficulty. This government believes that children do not have the same rights as those without disabilities. Gabarse, boasts that 90% of students with special educational needs — which is a nuance — are educated is an empty data of meaning, when since the council itself eliminates the means for this attention to be precise and individualized. There is a lack of obvious resources. Even if they're resourceful, there's a lot more lack of resources. That's the demand, that's the reality. There is a lack of specialists, not only professors of Therapeutic Pedagogy, Hearing and Language, but also the need for speech therapists and teams. There's a capacitism that goes against inclusion, it goes against flexibility, the transformation of the criteria for obtaining the title. If they were a little more realistic, a little more humble and less triumphal — like boxers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u190	End it, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u191	...we're the best -- the better it would be to include, the better it would be to this country and our society. Let's hope it lasts a little bit. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u192	Mrs. Cuña, the amendments?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u193	Oh, sorry, yeah. We accept amendments from the Joint Group and the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u194	Thank you very much. We continue with the agenda, with the next motion. G.P. motion. Joint Left Group, at the initiative of Da Carmen Santos Queiruga, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government and the actions to be carried out in relation to the situation of the judges of violence against women
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u195	Amendments have been tabled by the Group of the Socialists of Galicia and the People's Group of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u196	To formulate the motion, you have the floor to Mrs. Santos Queiruga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u197	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here again on an issue which is the follow-up of an interpellation that took place at the plenary session two weeks ago, in the framework of November 25, the Against Machist Violence Day, where much has been said about the budget, where many things have been said about, where political debate was also held very well up to the circumstances, and also Members and Members have been totally out of reality and against the majority of women in our country and our state, and they have not been at the height of the great drama we have suffered in our country. Of course, we brought a motion again with a series of points, some of which have already been dealt with in previous sessions; some even virtually identical ones have already been approved. And we see that there is a political practice that we certainly want to analyze beyond reaching some kind of consensus, because it seems that it is now fashionable to have consensus in this chamber and in this matter, which we praise and greet, but of course what we want is more facts and less consensus, consensus that is implemented, consensus and agreements that are carried out, consensus and agreements that serve to combat and eradicate macho violence, not to say that we are only against it. We see how every November 25 the People's Party has engulfed itself against male violence since the women took us out of the street and claimed that we don't want them to kill us. Every 8th of March they do the same thing: they first attack mobilizations, deny them, and then they get bullied, almost dressed in violets, to say they're the most feminists and they're against male violence. When they kill, unfortunately, a woman, they are the first to demand minutes of silence. So I'm going to tell you one thing as a woman, as a citizen: I want less minutes of silence, I want less violet ties, I want less solidarity walks, I want you not to murder us, I want not to be afraid and I want you to stop having minutes of silence. And for that we want more actions, more execution of agreements, and for that we need more money, more real commitment to carry out those agreements. And that's why we're here with this motion, with several points, which we're going to begin to analyze, because Mr. Rueda also acknowledged in part in the interpellation of the previous plenary which we had a lot of reason on the issues that we were reporting, in addition to the terrible, horrifying murders that we have been living in Galicia in the last months, as the last of Valga, where in many cases there was no prior complaint. First of all, we urge the Government of the State to increase the number of exclusive judges in the field of male violence until they complete their number in the five main cities of Greece, in compliance with the agreement in the State covenant and with the recommendations of the General Council of the Judiciary, in a consensual manner, in the Joint Commission, with the High Court of Justice. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we are full of grandiose pacts, of those who self-denominate themselves as state parties, who only provide 20% of the budget. Because this is impossible to fulfil the commitments of the State covenant. That's why we had a critical vote that criticizes us so much, because we didn't lie to citizenship, we told the truth. It's like saying we can build a house of 100 million with 20 million and we can't say that it doesn't feel right, right and unsolicited. And especially because we're going to live in it, not frivolous, because we're going to live in it. We are tired, we and our families, of agreements in this chamber that are not met, that remain in the consensus, in the agreements, in wet paper. We're fed up that the People's Party says they're good and they're demanding a lot of things. They demand and fill the covers with the seven hundred million they owe us to Galicia, with which we agree. But to claim the exclusive judges in the field of violence, agreed in that pact of state against violence, missing, we do not see that they fill doors nor do we see Mr Feijóo or Mr Rueda, nor the spokesmen of the People's Party, overthrow the flags of the country, of Spain and of the managers, and of seriousness, and of the concern of the Greeks and the Greeks. We see words and covers for what they're interested in. Secondly, we call for reform of the existing judicial facilities in our country, so that they contain separate and appropriate units so that complainants and reported minors and family members do not cross the border, so as not to incur double violence against the victims. Number three. Facilitate videoconferencing from attached rooms in the case of complainants. We don't think it's necessary to explain that a victim of macho violence doesn't want to cross the statements he has to make on a judicial unit with his aggressor. Number four. Enable child storage dependencies for appropriate installations on their own minor status. And fifthly, take real measures to improve the working and training conditions of the personnel of the women's violent judges. To increase staff and ensure a stable character for Imelga staff, something that denied Vice President Rueda and that Imelga staff moves us over and over again: their precarious, unstable situation, which prevents them from giving adequate treatment to victims in masculine violence. However, Mr. Rueda, when we told him things as simple as having a biombo and wireless micros in order to be able to make statements without seeing the victims their assailant, they told us, in an unheard of exercise of disrepute of their functions, that we had made amends to that budget if we thought it was incomplete. But it shocks you to say that, Mr. Rueda, first of all because you are a government, and then I say that the Government will have to know what the needs of women and of all the collectives and of all the needs of the Greeks and the Greeks are, and they won't want us to oppose their work. But as, of course, we always try to be consistent with what we propose, to remind the gentlemen and ladies of the People's Party and Mr. Rueda that we have made an amendment to the whole so that they move resources between different sections and budget advisors—which, of course, the People's Party voted against—with a plan of shock against the machist violence that amounted to EUR 42 million, which depended on the General Secretariat of Equality, Mrs. Susana López Abella, that something will have to say when they move, like us, that there is a lack of biombos, that there is a lack of resources, and that is equal, in a trial, in a school, in an institute, in a neighboring association, in a hospital. And the Secretary-General of Equality, who is in the same council as Mr. Rueda, will have to speak and they will have to derive and make the necessary budget translations and transfer of resources, where necessary to put resources. Because, of course, in a year, we don't have a crystal ball to know where the need can arise, even though we have to have a forecast, which is clear that the Government of the Union, will not want or be able to do. So if you want us to be the opposition that you make the amendments to the things that our country needs, leave the councils and then let the opposition rule. Because if that's their counterargument, of course what they're showing is that they're not trained or have the slightest scruple to show their shortcomings and lack of training. Of course, we don't know what they're going to vote for, we're going to listen to the amendments and the meaning of the amendments, and remember that we, 42 million euros in the shock plan against violence; the People's Party, 8.2 million; we're going to see the partial amendments that you make. But we're clear and the women are clear what we want. And I repeat: we want less good wishes and less condescension, we want more facts, we want more resources and we want them to really be consistent with what you defend. Now there's a new revolution in Verín. She already calls press headlines "the Revolution of Pregnant Women." The bonds, the minutes of silence and the walks are very good, but it is a great falsehood and incoherence to do this while deciding from the junta to suppress the birthplace of the Verín hospital, of which we will talk in other interventions, which is for us and for me another form of violence against the woman. It's very incoherent to say they're against macho violence and to deal with Vox. Because for us to deal with a party that denies violence against women and that denies the existence of violence against women is to allow and encourage violence against women, even if it allows you to rule, even if you don't feel in a saddle. At the moment they wake up and have government agreements with these gentlemen, they're encouraging what they defend. And to say that childbirth is not an infarction is violence against women and against future children who are going to be born; we're talking about lives. And I ask them the same question that they were shouted at in the streets of Verín last weekend — to finish — will you take the risk if I lose my son on the way to Ourense? I ask them: will you take the risk and responsibility that we are still being killed by women, that we continue to be afraid and continue to be assaulted?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u198	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u199	Are you going to take the risk and responsibility as a government?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u200	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u201	Because if you're not going to take it, leave your seat and leave your responsibility for government. Thank you very much, but nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u202	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. On behalf of the Galician Socialist Group, you have the floor to Mrs. Pierres López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u203	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. We had just, in fact, two weeks ago already discussed the substance of the question that this initiative was about today, and our group not only showed its support on that occasion, but also did so several times in this legislation, even with its own initiatives, as we did with the call for the reinforcement of the resources and services of the Immelga throughout Galicia. The reality is, if this initiative goes to this camera over and over again, it's because the pace in the execution of agreed and also approved measures is not desirable. And maybe the pace can be slowly understood in what it has to do with the measures that require greater investment, such as the increase in exclusive judges, but it's not explained so much about the changes or restructurings of current judges, changes that respond to a major issue, which is to guarantee the rights of victims of violence. And it's just that you can't encourage anyone to jump into the vacuum if then you can't afford the network to land safely on. Let us therefore think more of the victims, on their way, from their denunciation. Let's try to understand that yours is a history of terror, a terror that has paralyzed them for a long time, because every attempt to stay away from your aggressor has received an immediate response, in the form of aggression, isolation and threat. We understand that their protection must be effective and real, especially real, because if it isn't, it will continue to favor that 80 percent of women killed in our country who had not filed any complaints about their partners or expatriates. What you're revealing to us is that really only about 20% of women who suffer from some kind of gender-based violence report it, a fact that is totally hopeless and totally also revealing. Something's missing. A lot of small things fail. The statistics tell it, the victims themselves tell it, and it also says the state pact with those about 300 measures, some of them from the judicial field, which is what we are today, where it detects that there are still a lot of issues that are far better. The victim's exposure to his assailants in the courtroom is still one of the most sensitive issues. To meet your aggressor for a while, with whom he has seen you, humiliated you and assaulted you provokes a victim's paralysis, which is often one of the reasons for the withdrawals of demands. Because there are many victims who just want to pass the page, and the fact that they don't meet their assailant again is the only and the most immediate end they pursue. Their need is much more urgent. So these are the small actions we are talking about today, those that need little budget, such as a video conferencing system, which can cause a substantial change in the victim's path during a judicial process. Biombo systems as they're just a really patch of a system that should be a lot more secure. We understand, in fact, that the recommendations of the Good Practice Guide to Declaration of Victims of Gender Violence, which was adopted in November 2018 by the Group of Experts and Experts of the General Council of the Judiciary on Domestic and Gender Violence, should be the model to follow and pursue. Because in that document, the rights of the victims should be preserved and guaranteed, both before and during the day of the trial. And it is guaranteed entirely, not by means, for example, in the treatment and exploration of minors during the instruction phase. In that document, in fact, it is recommended to make the statement of children in an environment that is friendly and as least invasive as possible, always in company with a psychology professional, recording the statements, which will be seen by the rest of the actors in the process, judges or judges, prosecutors, lawyers and lawyers. A statement that, in addition, will remain as a preconstituted proof and that will prevent the minor from having to repeat it during the oral view and thus avoiding, as already mentioned, the revitalization. This is feasible. In fact, thanks to Gesell cameras, that judicial resource, which we actually used to see in many American films but which in Spain, unfortunately, is a specific resource especially for minor victims of sexual violence, remains an anecdote and still counts with the fingers of the hand; in Galicia there is only one, recently, just one month, in Ourense. So since our group in fact, we have tabled an amendment to ensure that minors are also present from that annex, but if not, we also present in a special way and today, as a reflection that we want to share today, to transfer the suitability of ensuring the presence of these cameras in all the sole judges of violence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u204	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u205	A resource that would allow this reduction in the psychological burden of all children who are victims of sexual abuse or violence. Our position of support for this initiative is therefore very clear: to bet on fulfilling the articulate, of course, of the Istanbul Convention, but also of the State pact itself, and to show less desire and more will and at least face the changes in the current trials, which are very small in investments because they can expect great improvements especially for the lives of the victims. For our part, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u206	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pierres. On behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mrs Prado del Río has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u207	Thank you, President. Mrs. Santos, as a previous question, is on the contrary: the Board would take a very important risk if it continued to keep the birthplace of Verín despite having the warnings of specialists both in xenophobia and in pediatrics that they would take a serious risk to the lives of mothers and babies who were still born. [[Applause]] But look, it was a good day today, Mrs. Santos, to apologize for what they said about hepatitis C, as you said: the Board decided to let some patients die when there were medicines to save them in the pharmacy. Now we're moving from hepatitis C to the Paritory of Verín. Look, Mrs. Santos, I'm not going into the mud where you roll very comfortably in the interventions. I'm going to talk about the victims of gender-based violence, because they deserve me a lot more respect than you do, and I'm not going to divert the debate, which is what you're interested in. [[Applause]] Look, indeed, as sole judges of gender-based violence, I'm going to give the data, because Mrs. Santos said some data the other day that doesn't match reality. In Spain there are 106 exclusive women's cases of violence, and 2 are in Galicia (in Coruña and Vigo). There are 355 compatible judges; in Galicia there are 43; 38 are found in villages and 5 are tried for education in cities. And there are 31 judges of the specialized criminal. In Galicia there's 2: number 6 of the Crown and trial number 2 of the Pontevedra criminal. It seems that the jurisdiction to determine judicial units is from Galician Union. Frankly, Mrs Santos, you are quite incoherent because, on the one hand, it says that, indeed, it is the Joint Commission that has to decide which of the judicial units that correspond to Galicia, and on the other hand, it says that it is already sick that the People's Party in Galicia does not comply with the agreements adopted in this Parliament. Look, who doesn't do them is the Central Government, and you're ruling with socialist lords in the Spanish Government, Mrs. Santos. Oh, no, not now. Of course, the embrace with "the nitrogen until it bleeds" is not effective yet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u208	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u209	You have facilitated the presidency of Mr Sánchez's Government and you come here to claim this, but when there is a failure to comply with something you should indeed claim, as is a decision of the Joint Committee, as was the Social Court for Lugo, no group of those on that bench has ever submitted a single initiative claiming that trial. Today, Lugo continues without the Social Court, which has adopted by consensus in the Joint Committee. So here the only thing that violates the agreements of the Joint Commission is the Socialist Government of Mr Sánchez with the complicity of all of you. [[Applause]] Even if they are not exclusively devoted to gender-based violence, if there are specialized bodies, and we here -- you said so -- actually, we have reached a number of agreements on that subject. I'm going to speak quickly point-by-point. On the possibility of increasing judgments in the five cities of Greece, it's a state competition, Mrs. Santos, you know. The Council of Galicia is the only thing that it does is a report, which is not binding, for it to be through the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia and to make a proposal from the Joint Committee. The result of this proposal made by the Joint Commission is sent to Madrid so that it will be the Ministry's decision. The Ministry may decide to listen or not to listen. As far as you can see, lately it doesn't pay attention. This is the first time in Spain's history where the Central Government does not respond to the demands of the Joint Committee of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia and the Council of Galicia. In an interview that was conducted recently — on October 6, to be more accurate — to Mr. José María Gómez and Mr. Díaz-Castroverde, who is the President of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, on the specific issue of the judges specializing in gender violence, said: "There are also specialized courts in the field, but shared with others. I have raised the possibility of generating comarcallization environments so that I can deal with specialized courts not only in a judicial party but in several." Indeed, we agree on comarcaalization, and this group has put forward many initiatives in that regard. You showed up here the other day in favor of comarcallization. So, Mrs. Santos, I don't understand how, on the one hand, you may agree with the comarcalyization and, on the other hand, come here to request five specific judgments for the cities. Honestly, you agree with yourself because one thing is not compatible with the other and coherence in politics is fundamental. It is essential that, if you come here to talk about your amendments to the budgets, be consistent and say that you left in zero euros the Directorate General of Justice...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u210	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u211	...that your group left her in zero euros to do those works that you are now demanding here to separate the victims from the aggressors. Besides, Mr. Rueda told him the other day about the number of judges who have done those works and are planning to do them. What's going on is that you say the state pact is wet paper because now it's justifiable that they didn't vote in favour of the state pact...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u212	Finish it, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u213	...and, on the other hand, in his initiative, he asks that the state pact be fulfilled. Be consistent, Mrs Santos: either you are either in the state pact or you are not in the state pact, or you want to be courted or you want to be a specialist judge, or you agree with the Joint Committee or you want it to be Parliament which tells the central government that you want to be judged for Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u214	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u215	Honestly, Mrs. Santos, your coherence leaves much to be desired. We, of course, will continue on the same line as ever, claiming that it is the Joint Commission of the Judges and the Council of Galicia who decides what the judicial units Galicia needs because it is the judges who really know what the needs are. Now, if you want...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u216	Finish, please, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u217	...that the legislature replaces the judge clearly, because that's one more step in his progress...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u218	You have to finish, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u219	...to destroy democracy in this country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u220	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. The Joint Group has the floor Mr. Villares Naveira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u221	Good afternoon, gentlemen. I'm going to start by making a couple of clarifications to Mrs. Prado's intervention. The first one has to do with the demand of the Social Judge in Lugo. If Mrs Prado remembers well, in Commission 1 we have been in this issue several times unanimously the instance of several groups, one of the times of the Group on the Sea, of which the rapporteur Mrs Proponent has been a member. It has been debated several times, we have talked about this matter several times and therefore there is no need to try to point out the proposition because of circumstances that nothing has to do with the proposal of the Courts of Violence on Women. Secondly, there is the question of exclusive specialization. You have also mestigated — allow me again to have to correct it, Mrs Prado — because as soon as you read the Organic Law of the Judiciary, in your article 87a) — you see that you have not read it too well — you could check the compatibility between the two claims that have been made here and that you say they are not incompatible; that are the derivatives too — which you have used, I believe, inaccurately, not to say otherwise — of the President of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia on the subject of comarcacalization. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] What you call "marketing" is a tool provided for in Article 87a)(2), which says: "Without prejudice to the existing legislation on demarcation and plant, the Government, the proposal of the Council and in its case with a report from the Autonomous Community with competences in matters of justice, may establish by a real decree that judges of violence against women who determine themselves extend their jurisdiction to two or more parties in the province." But this has nothing to do with the third subparagraph. They're perfectly compatible. The third paragraph, as you know — almost all but Mrs Prado — says that where it is convenient, depending on the existing workload, they can know only this kind of matter. So it's the exclusive specialization, and it's compatible with making them comarcial; i.e., abducting more than one judicial party. In fact, it's the way they give the modules that set up the General Council of the Judiciary itself...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u222	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u223	...which can be established solely in the area of violence. No violence and no change, therefore, no effective legislation, no regulations or numbers. In this way, as soon as you had studied matter, you could make a completely different intervention without interest in your right. So we're going to support this proposal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u224	Quiet, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u225	...because the first paragraph — as I have just explained — in Articles 87a. 2 and 3, so predicts this possibility, so it's something that would improve efficiency, resources... Furthermore, there is one thing, that specialization exclusively beyond a judicial party, in this particular motion, would dispense with having to carry out certain reforms because those reforms would already focus on those judges, taking into account these competences. These reforms would therefore not be necessary, since they would no longer have the competences of the other courts. From here, of course, we also show our support for the rest of the points. And with regard to the judges I know quite well, Lugo's, I remember when in 2006, by doing the practices there, we saw as the Court of Violence about Women had no kind of specialized dependence, and, in order to avoid that confrontation between the victim and the aggressor, women had to have in a specific department, which was the archive, to be more specific. Just seven years later, when I came back as a headline in those trials, I saw how the spaces were the same and how dependencies they could serve for that were also busy with the archives; a situation that hasn't improved in recent years so we've been investigating before we came up with this proposal. Regarding the theme of Gesell cameras and the theme of attendance in attached rooms via videoconferencing systems, there's one thing that attracts attention, and that hardware exists. Today, all the judges in the country are equipped with systems that would allow them to do so, another thing is that the software installed does not allow or is not connected to an internal videoconferencing system that allows the living room to do this, or, in case it is, whether it is the official or not the programs that are prepared to make that room-to-room dump in real time. This really has a very low cost because what is expensive, which is the whole installation of the whole hardware, already exists in all the judgments of Galicia. It should therefore be easy to implement, even without any substantial reform in the budgets by 2020. With respect to the waiting dependencies, if the Gesell camera theme is almost something that is not installed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u226	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u227	...the subject of minors is absolutely out of forecast. There is, if any, a juvenile trial, but, as you know, the problem is completely different. Finally, on the subject of vocational training, in the last paragraph...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u228	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u229	...--yes, I'm done -- there's one question: the problem in most cases is that they're optional, they're not mandatory. We thought they'd have to be mandatory for all the staff who work in the Women's Violence Courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u230	Thank you very much, Mr. Villares. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u231	Mrs. Prado, do you know what doesn't change the Hepatitis C sentence? You know what doesn't change, do you? The reality is that in this country people died because they weren't given a medicine. That doesn't change the sentence of hepatitis C. That doesn't change the sentence, no. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u232	Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. [[Mr. Trenor López utters words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u233	What he doesn't say is that he didn't die from people in this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u234	Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u235	The sentence does not eliminate people in this country who have died because they haven't been paid a drug.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u236	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u237	That doesn't remove any judgment, Mrs. Paula Prado. It's part of their history, of the history of the People's Party in this country. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u238	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u239	Yes, yes. Even people die on the road leaving, soon, effectively. That's right. [[Applause]] "The announced closure of the Parish of the Comarcal Hospital in Verín does not contribute to ensuring equal opportunities and the enjoyment of services that the people demand for a decent quality of life from the districts of Monterrey and Conso-Frieiras." That's what the Ourense People's Party says. These are the motions presented by the Ourense People's Party. I suppose they too will be called alarmists, unworthy and abominable, as we had to hear in the press from some of the Government of the People's Party. [[Applause]] Anyway! Criteria have them for all tastes. [[Applause]] Of course, what a disappointment it is to come here to defend, in the name of women's rights, that services are cut off! I was just saying...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u240	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u241	No, it’s not a cut; it’s better not to have pediatric emergencies than to have them... it’s the possession of the People’s Party of the Yupi Worlds.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u242	Mrs. Prado, be quiet. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Prado, you've intervened. Thank you. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] Yeah, yeah. No, if we applied the Rules of Procedure, very few people were talking here. Let's keep going.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u243	I don't know if you're recognizing that it's gender-based violence, what the Galician Union is trying to do, or if you're saying, in its theory of post-verity, including the Yupi Worlds of the People's Party, that it's gender-based violence to denounce the cuts in women's rights. I think they have important cocoa on that bench. [[Applause]] And it's the same cocoa that prevents them from remembering that, for example, in January 2017, we reached an agreement on this Social Judge of Lugo in this House, at the initiative of the Nationalist Galego Block, through my companion Olalla Rodil. Fortunately, there are recordings and session journals, because if we're not going to be straight away, we're going crazy and crazy with the constant rewrite of the story that they make on this side of the bench. In any case, I'm going to the question that concerns us today, when we talk about macho violence and justice, the truth, the lamentable thing, is that sometimes it seems like we're talking about an oximor, something that's incompatible almost conjugating into a Conso-Frieiras same sentence. There are continuing complaints that have also come from the very professionals of the world of justice, not only from the victims themselves and the collectives who work with them, about issues that are still not corrected today, that revitalize these victims, and also from issues that remind us of how justice has much to improve to remove that patriarchal tuft that surrounds them. We recently spoke in this House, for example, of the latest rulings on the Mansade. In any case, the whole matter of justice also brings us back to the mirror the tremendous slowness, the unacceptable slowness that exists in all the changes we agree on in this respect. This is the state pact. I want to remember that in January 2017 we also approved a motion driven by the Galician Nationalist Block where we included a battery of measures for the field of justice that today, unfortunately, are not developed, and there are shared responsibilities, responsibilities in the Galician Union — we understand that the effort is not always enough — and responsibilities on the part of the Central Government itself. We have insisted over and over again on how that state pact has served to wash many faces and to make few changes. In the short time that the People's Party has left me I can't set many examples. I'll put only one that's bleeding. More than two years ago, this state pact was approved, and one of the issues it had was measure 110: "Setting, within a maximum of two years, the units of integral forensic valuation, of which they may be part psychologists, psychologists..." etc. The deadline for putting them into effect was two years; it's been more than two years and I'm not in the Spanish state, nor am I a real face, nor is it in our country. And also in this country if you've rejected the impulse of similar measures, of Imelga's reinforcement measures and a long et cetera. So sober, there's a lot left to be done in the field of justice too, and that it should be one of the priority areas because, today, it's a more form of macho violence; an institutional violence that, of course, is not acceptable and that returns to us in the mirror that we still have a lot to do and that we demand from these two administrations. For these reasons, from the BNG we will vote in favour of Mrs Santos' proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u244	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. For the author group of the motion, Mrs. Santos Queiruga has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u245	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank the tone of most of this Parliament's groups, as well as support for the initiative, and say that we are going to accept the amendment of the Socialist Group and that we are not going to accept the amendment of the People's Party. Mrs Prado's intervention was as predictable as disappointing. I agree with the other honourable Members. Of course, it's only bad that we're going to give to the victims and that they're not going to sink, because if this isn't to sink! I am not going to speak of the public statements of mayors of the People's Party, such as that of Vilanova and that of Noia, who made them discovered — they didn't steal their cell phone — and that they caused us so much shame and so much disgust to the women of this country. I agree with Mrs Noa Presas that a court ruling will not eliminate and eradicate people who have died because of the failure of a medicine for hepatitis C — that sentence has been passed — and that you deny the reality — and the debate will already take place, because it does not play on this initiative, about the hospital in Verín and the closing of the parish— will not make the twenty thousand people who have manifested themselves in Verín and the revolution of the pregnant women, who are absolutely scandalized, just as much of the Greek citizenship - not only that of Verín and that of Ourense - with the lack of humanity of the People's Group, the Unity of Galicia and its political decisions, say what you say. We do have coherence because these requests were made when Mr. Rajoy, his President, Mr. Rajoy, ruled, and we continue to demand them now that the Socialist Party governs. We maintain our critical position with the state pact. If Junta promises to build a house and gives them twenty million cents, they can't live, they can make two walls. Well, a state pact with a series of commitments, which has no economic resources, cannot be carried out and, consequently, the victims cannot be protected. They're lying and they want to wash their faces. You do want to wash your face in the lack of commitment, as with the issue of budgets; as you do not want to acknowledge that you voted against our amendments to the prevention of masculine violence, so necessary and much more quantitative (42 million versus 8.2), you want us to do the work of Mr. Rueda and Mrs. López Abella. No, you do it and you don't use us as an excuse because of your lack of commitment, action and foresight. And this on all the women's issues. The People's Party shows that it will continue on the same line, on the lines of the ties, of the minutes of silence, of the walks, of disguise itself as violet and against macho violence, but with its usual modus operandi to say, agree, approve and not do continue in inaction and remain without recognizing the social drama that is violence against women in all its spheres. As they continue to deal with the extreme right, with Vox, who in a disgusting way denies violence, you don't have any kind of moral authority to open your mouth, because...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u246	Finish, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u247	...they're petty people who you're dealing with -- and I'm done. With regard to comarcalyization, look, Mrs. Prado, to start with, write down the data, that I gave you the data on the judicial units. Take a good note.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u248	Thank you very much, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u249	It's not incompatible with comarcalyization with having ruled exclusively, and that's what takes the state pact and picks it up by the General Council of the Judiciary. Read more, study more and do less demagogy, Mrs. Paula Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u250	Thank you very much, Mrs. Santos. We moved on to the next motion. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with the extraction of Berberech in the rivers of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u251	No amendments were tabled to this motion. You have the floor, to formulate the motion, Mr. Torrado Quintela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u252	Thank you, President. Although I feared it, it is not yet up to the Verín debate — we will have enough time — but my body was already asking me to say something. I think there's about an hour and a half left for the Verín debate and seeing if the People's Party comes up with the same opinion as now or again, because during the day I think it's changed four or five times. Finally, we are going to talk about a question that has to do with shellfish in Galicia and which is the result of the questioning two weeks ago, in which the debate with the Counsellor has allowed us to reach some common points and some disagreements. Almost all these agreements generate known disagreements, so from there it is possible even to remember what is disagreeable, because it also sometimes allows for some progress. And taking a look at what the points of agreement and disagreement are, because if we can approve this initiative, which basically goes in line with what the counselor herself said here two weeks ago. So we think it's possible to approve it. What we're thinking is that we have a product that is not exclusive to Galicia, of course, but of what we probably have a world brand, and that has a recognized quality. A good part of the people who live on the sea have a capacity for extraction and marketing that gives them a situation of good prospects, if we are able to work well, both for a question of quantity, if you are well employed, and for the question of exclusivity, which, of course, has a market value in yourself. There's a question about the Berberect's situation that has to do with its evolution, the current situation and the prospect of the future. In the three planes, there's some deal and some disagreement. As far as historical evolution is concerned, in recent years there has been an almost unpredictable variability in the volume of extraction - not at all unpredictable, but if unpredictable, given the scenario -. From 2012 on, the impact of biological problems known as Marteilia has profoundly deteriorated the level of production, and there are results, indeed, very variable. In this analysis we agree with the Government and with all the opposition groups, as could not be otherwise, because they are objective data. The disagreement is in the problems that this government offers. As usual, this is a government that, when there are problems, disappears. There wasn't just one real answer from what was going on. It was an answer that already the Members and Members of this House we usually know: "We're already working on it." It was common since 2012, they were already working, but no one was able to give an answer that would let you know what might happen. Basically, no one who had worked on this sector could know whether it was going to increase, decrease, whether the forecast was good or whether it was bad. The only feeling, when the possible extraction period was opened, was to see that we found, without anyone knowing whether to invest more in resources or not, whether those who work in the sector should bet on looking for more material resources to work or not, because there was no answer; an absolutely absent counsellor's leader. He was already working, but we still don't know what happened, not even with his initial work, that never got public. And there was an autocritic avoidance, using some data trickery. The Counsellor didn't agree with this, but she didn't really argue much either, it's legitimate. She didn't agree, she said it last week or fifteen days ago; I agree with what the counselor says sometimes, no problem. The reflection on what we often disagreeed about, including in the committee, has to do with the fact that there was sometimes little product but it was very much quoted, because when there was little product value per unit is much bigger, it's a matter of market. It is assumed that each product has the capacity to obtain economic resources from it, that it has a lot of value. And when the product came down of value, usually because there was a lot, it was assumed that there was a lot. So they were both good situations. If there's a lot, because there's a lot, and if there's a lot, because it's worth a lot. So there's a lack of self-criticism, from our point of view, which does not just match the usual tendency of counseling, that if you have a position on other subjects, on other products, and you prefer that products make a lot of money and not in numerical quantities, but in this case you would contradict yourself for that. There's a current situation in which we also agree: there's good data today. It was certainly a difficult scenario to predict, but there are some good current data, and there can also be evidence that there is a natural agreement, because the data is obviously good. Today, if I don't remember badly, we're already in the best year since 2012 and it's still the last month, so undoubtedly it's going to be the best year. In addition, there is a very interesting effect, which is that they are the best data in numerical terms of quantity, but also in product performance, because the product now starts to be much better, not as it was in the early years, that the product didn't even have all the quality at times. So that's what we also denounced, despite not finding an echo on that issue. There's a certain disagreement here. We do not share the justification that the counseling does for itself, saying that it is thanks to the measures of the counseling. Why? Because if it wasn't for counsel's fault that there was a problem, it's hard to assume that it's the merit of counseling that now seems to disappear. Let's say we don't agree on that. So in that balance of agreements and disagreements we make an approach that we have already introduced to the debate of the whole past, and from there we want to know what the position of the rest of the groups is. Our approach is that we believe it is very important that research and knowledge reports about the sector are known, and not only for parliamentary groups, which we also have an interest in knowing them -- at least our group, but we understand that all -- but also for the confrereries, who have not had access to many of these investigations. And although it's a sector where there's a knowledge among people who work, and informally, they do often know the data they're investigating, they don't know formally, there's no written documents. There was no intention of the counsellor to write down what was his analysis of the situation, his conclusions and, therefore, his recommendations. We believe that it is necessary to offer a certain stability to the sector, even if it is to convey that there is no capacity to predict, or even if it is to transmit that the possibilities are not as good as they wish. It's always better to be able to predict, so we appeal to the need to have certain reports and ask through the first point of those reports. We also ask for a second question to be asked, which is to make a forecast report. We've marked it at three years' notice, and it makes sense. The only thing we've got, and we admit that it's possible for the board to know -- that's what was said here fifteen days ago -- is that they can make a forecast by the end of the year, but, of course, we're at the first days of December and until the end of the year, actually, it's a little limited forecast. We've been thinking about it three years ago. Why? Because some changes are taking the farm plans to be done three years ago and not annually, as they were done until now. If we're demanding the sector to make planning and management of how the product has to work and extraction at three years' notice, we'll have to be able to give them, therefore, an idea of what the product will be like at three years' notice. Basically, if not, we're asking someone to do personal planning and investment, like we're autonomous in many cases, to do a job without telling you whether it's going to be possible to work or not. So, since the Council has the data, it's used the industry's own work to be able to have data, which is less than making a report that allows them to work on that. And finally, the third point we have raised is an increase in research on this field. Why? Because we believe that, of course, this is what will give us the solution, not for now, that we hope that the proper functioning and continuity of extraction in this field will be maintained, but if we believe that it is good that, if we have any problems in this direction again, we can answer. I mean, it doesn't happen to us that we've spent seven years, as we've been waiting for the last day since 2012, or that the free shellfish starts, to find out whether there's berbecto or no berbecto, or whether there's any other kind of product in the sea; that it's not the sailors and sailors who have to go see that they are, a little in the air, with no shelter and no shelter, or, at least, without any knowledge. That's why we're thinking that research levels, research budgets are increasing. Why? Because from there we can be more efficient. So we believe that this might be approved, basically because it was received two weeks ago. Basically, it was literally said, and I think I literally quote: All reports that are necessary are available for consultation. That was said by the counsellor in the debate two weeks ago. So we understand that the reports made in reference to point 1 will not have a problem approving them. We understand that if the farm plans are going to take three years to the confrereries, we'll be able to figure out what the forecast is at three years. We won't be asking the confrereries to do the work that the Council doesn't want to do, we admit not. And thirdly, and then maybe we can have some discrepancy, we ask for an increase in the budget in research, because it's very good to talk about the good that is our research, the great researchers that we have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u253	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u254	...but then we didn't give them the necessary grounds and resources. And that goes for our proposal, the condition that it is approved by everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. Mr Casal Vidal has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u256	Good afternoon. We're talking about a really serious matter and it's not going to work out right now. Marteilia arrived in Galicia in 2012 and we still don't know how it came, if she went through the entrance into the humpbacks. The only reference data is that the largest number of these debuggers in the most affected streams could lead to thinking about it, but we don't know. We don't even know what the mechanism is so devastatingly extended by the Berberectian banks, leaving them practically squilled, with a mortality that in the first few years has reached a hundred percent. The production of Berberects in Galicia in 2008 was 5 million kilograms. He went down into bites from the arrival of Marteilia from 2012, and eleven years later he could only recover half to 2.5 million pounds. We have to make numbers. At the current average beer price, which is 6.54 euros, is a loss to the sector of more than 16 million euros. We are talking about one of the most important inputs in the fisheries and shellfish sector, and, by referring to it, we can compare it, for example, with what the advisor spoke about this morning, who so strongly claimed more quota, for example, for the jury. Well, because these 16 million euros that lost the seafood industry, the seafood sector, would be the most of the quota we're asking for more than the European Union, would amount to between 40,000 and 80,000 tons of interest, depending on the price at each time, which is changing, but as the bosses told us this morning, there were days when they sold it at 10 cents per kilo. If we make a big political problem of claiming those thousands of tons of interest, how do we not start at home and we worry enough that these 16 million euros will not be lost by inaction or by inadequate budgets? The enormous risks of the globalisation of the marine market imply the need to invest much more in controlling imports of bivalves, in this case of what seems to have been the source, which is the Japanese plum. Recently, we knew reports, and even a television show, which made it clear the huge holes that had been entering contaminated Japanese plum, the mouth of the Texo River, in the Welsh debuggers. This is a risk that is not sustainable, and no longer by the economic volume of the product itself that comes in smuggling, but by all these parasites, all these diseases that can bring with it. This shows a clear insufficiency of research budgets. That's why point 3 of the motion really seems to us to be listening. We think the risks are so big, the dependence on the economy of many parts of Galicia is so important, that the 5% increase that we think is too small. We therefore continue to demand much more investment for the Intemar and the Cima, because the truth is that its level of action we consider to be excellent and that we must support it, without any doubt. Why didn't it affect the creek of Noia and Walls and instead from the Arousa River it quickly extended to Pontevedra and Vigo? Does it have to do with other environmental elements? Does it have to do with a larger number of debuggers in the affected creeks? Are there more to the causes of the parasite's own presence? As I say, is there any risk of extension to other laughs for some kind of conditioning? Well, seven years after the parasite arrives, we still have no answers. The incidence was decreasing from 2016 onwards, but the right science is not known why. If the presence of the parasite has been reduced in itself or if the berberecho population has become stronger against infection. It's also thought that there's a hoster who takes the parasite from a Berberect to another, but there's still no scientific evidence to be able to act against him and how. In short, the Berberechos are better off protecting themselves, because the Galician Union is not going to do much to help them, neither to them nor to the seafood sector. The evidence is that we have potential risks, of catastrophic characteristics, and we don't have enough means to approach them. It is also necessary to tell the Socialist Party that on the other day the Director General for Fisheries Development denounced the paralyzing of all the regenerating permits of the marine banks by the ministry, projects presented by the confrereries, since they were treated as mere general jobs in ports, such as drenchs and other types of harbour jobs involving environmental studies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u257	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u258	...and all of this has paralysed all of these jobs and the possibility of the loss of many aided grants. No, this depends on the ministry, this depends on the ministry. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's why we would also like the Socialist Party's spokesman to tell us in reply whether it's true or false, because the general director's statement was very powerful. No sea bank that needs authorization from the ministry is allowed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u259	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u260	It's evidence that in the shellfish sector in Galicia we had to be a true power, by the quality of our product, by the conditions of our rivers to produce quantity and quality of shellfish. It had to be a very powerful activity in economic development and job creation. The Sea Councillor arrived in 2009 with the firm commitment, first, to professionalize the sector; second, to increase the number of permex; third, to dignify the incomes of the mariners, and did not meet absolutely any of these three, we're not going to the kid anymore. Ten years later, the data is: 479 permex minus; 1,160 women. I mean, they've increased men's and decreased by a thousand and something women's. A very low generational relief; it's not attracted by the harsh working conditions, by the limited possibilities of training, by the lack of recognition of professional diseases, by the lack of recognition of professional diseases, by the lack of recognition of reducing coefficients, and by the low level of income. The average incomes are around 7,500 euros gross; that is, all a real achievement. As for the Berbereccho theme, the Berberecho's mortality starts from 2012, when the captures reached a historical fall, they became only 350,000 kilograms. He practically disappeared from the Arousa, Pontevedra and Vigo creek, and the maintenance of the number of captures comes almost exclusively by the maintenance of the Nut-Worship River and because in that laugh the production has been increasing. In front of that, it should be the administration itself that gave the alarm voice, which had supplied the data to the pool of the river, which had put the means to determine the factors that could influence that mortality and that had put the corrective measures to solve it, but, what we had was a paralysed administration -- not transparent is the smoothest thing that can be said of the action it has done -- of course no dialogue, and that did not assume responsibilities as manager and promoter that it had to be this public good. The first thing to do was recognize the problem to address it, but he did as he would not go with it. So, opacity as to what was producing the mortality of the Berberectus: regarding marine pathologies; environmental pollution, which could be causing the disappearance of the Berberechus; the lack of verquide point controls in the Arousa River still exist 74 pollutant points; about whether there is any study on the indiscriminate use of pesticides; about the monitoring measures of microorganisms such as cyanobacteria in the Humia coron; about the existence or not of enclosed water circuits in the debuggers and how it could be influencing this; about the influence of the Touro mine; about the absence of health control of imported species. Did we have any information about which of these elements, to what extent, to what extent the set of these elements, more than one? No, what we saw was just saying there was a problem. We also knew that the study elements hanging from a bat disappeared. Things that happen, I suppose, in the banana republics but they also happened to the Council. And as much as the advisor comes to say that all the information is transparent... well! The sector asked him for meetings, asked for dialogue tables, asked him to commit himself, asked him for measures for the regeneration of the backs, of the shellfish free zones, of the bohio, of Cabio, and what did he do at the council, to be made of Covas, and when production was already in negative numbers, he hung the dead onto the sector and did what you could. That, without a commitment by the Council to resources or support, which, of course, is the minimum that can be asked for, is information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u261	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. For the Joint Left Group, Mr. Young González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u262	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, we're here again to talk about something we've been dealing with on other occasions. It's really a pity I'm not the fishing advisor now, because I think this subject would interest you too. Precisely in the morning he put face of great surprise when we asked for more investment in research. He said the Intemar was an exemplary center — by the way, an appreciation with which we, of course, agree — where a great job was done, and that the budget was sufficient. Well, here we're going to see clearly today an issue where the Intemar needs not the resources it has, but a lot more. I insist on congratulations to this body and its staff for their good work, especially in their pathology unit, and we do not comply. About Marteilia has been seven years since we suffered from this epidemic, which in 2012 really decimated the berbechecho population in Galicia, causing massive mortality of up to 80%, reducing the incidence of bivalve in Galicia from 50% in the year 2000 to 30% today. With regard to this very motion of the PSdEG, we have already moved forward to support it. We also want to see those reports which claimed to have the advisor about the predictions that the epidemic of Marseilia is sending, but above all, I think that what we all want from the opposition groups — at least all the intervening groups up until now — is to know why, why it is sending Marteilia right now, because despite having discovered already at last the Copepod that acts as an intermediary guest, and this is a really important statement that made the other day the advisor — he said a little bit with his small mouth but it is something very important, it is a really important advance — yet we still do not know the origin of this plague, we continue without knowing what the reasons for the outbreaks are, and this for us is very worrying. The fact of the remission of the outbreak is, of course, good news if it is confirmed that it remains in time, but it is not to be said that it is due to natural causes as the main hypothesis. It can't be that we've been investigating something for seven years and now the Councillory is doing some sort of triumphalism about natural causes that are making this parasite come back. The fact of referral of the outbreak cannot make it investigate less, as it is even more uncertainty than the security that exists at the moment. Of course, we need to keep up with the research effort to find out if this is the product of pollution, if this is the product of the worms, if it's cyanobacteria, if it's other polluting agents. Knowing the source, where this comes from, is the only thing that can stop it from happening again. And, of course, we are particularly concerned about the end of the year 2020 of the Cockles project, which is mainly what has generated research resources in this field in recent years. It was EUR 3.6 million that put the European Union precisely to assess the state of Berbecho. The next year this project disappears, and neither the Galician Union nor this Parliament have absolutely no hope of providing resources for the Intemar to compensate for the disappearance of this project. We have tabled a partial amendment, from the Joint Left Group, attempting to alleviate in some way the repercussions on the Intemar of the disappearance and the end of the project Cockles, of EUR 100,000, for research projects of red tides and parasites in aquaculture. On the reports requested by this motion, apart from those made autonomously by the Intemar, we would also like to have precisely the reports that this Cockles project foresees in its objectives on new techniques of management, development, procedures, technologies for the recovery of Berber Banks, quantifying the economic and social benefits, orienting and advising on good practices to producers, administrations, environmental agencies, NGOs, etc. We also speak today in the morning, in the presence of the advisor, about how to defend the value of the Greek products, especially the Berberecho, where a large part of what is marketed with Galicia's name on its cover comes directly from England or Portugal, just here it is packaging and it is already a Greek product. Of course, it seems really a delay, a loss of ability to put added value on a local product of enormous quality. I've got a picture here, for example, of a barbeque in a supermarket these last few days. Here you put Galician Fishing, and yet you put here extracted in Portugal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u263	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u264	Of course, this kind of thing seems to us to be relevant about the lack of accuracy in the labeling of the products being sold, and we understand that the Board should take a clear action to avoid these kinds of things that seriously harm the sea sector.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u265	Thank you very much, Mr. Young. For the People's Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs. Salorio Porral.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u266	Thank you, President. We believe it is fair today to use a piece of my time, my turn of intervention, to ask the opposition officials to apologize, because in their day the Socialist Party in Galicia said that Feijóo was the most responsible for the deaths of hepatitis C patients. The BNG said that the PP left patients dead for economic criteria, and the Tides in Podemos said that Junta decided to let some patients die when there were medicines to save them. After the auto archive dictated by justice on this matter, if there remains some humanity, responsibility and decency in the opposition, they should offer an apology to the high offices who have passed a personal calvary for years, to the Union and, of course, to the People's Party. [[Applause]] Having said this, I'll talk about the Berberecho, which for that I came here. The counsellor's intervention in Mr. Torrado's inquiry, fifteen days ago, was a clarifier for adding information and data. I think he gets off to say a lot more. Data from 2019 is positive, and it's worth pointing out that these are 13% higher than the average of the last fourteen years in downloads and 56% higher in billing. From January to October 2019 2,250 tons of Berberech were downloaded, with an economic value of approximately 15 million euros. At this time of year, we've already circled the data from the 2018 extraction. With reference to the first point of the motion, if we can agree, it is also true that there is abundant public information with reference to both the Berberech and the Marteilia that affects this species. So much so, even the Cima has published on the web the memories of activity until 2016, and these will be made public as research actions are being closed. In addition, it should also be noted that projects financed from European funds often bring matches for the advertising of their contents and results, as the Council constantly does. Example the Cockles project that is accessible on the web. Even on many occasions the Cockles project is also another example of this case, even its results are being disseminated through social networks, making them more accessible, to the general public, and to the professionals of the sea in particular. But at this point, one question that we believe we need to participate in the rest of the House and ask for an answer from the group that demands this publicity. I refer to the absence of requests for Article 9, information and documentation relating to this species and its evolution. Curious anxiety and curiosity that arises now! In relation to the second point, adventure what the behavior of a species in the marine environment is at least complicated. Medium- and long-term forecasts in this respect can be adventured, even in the short term it can be too. They can be broken by multiple factors; I mention four examples. The rains and the arrival of fresh water to the marine banks affect their growth and viability. Wind currents and regimes affect the arrival of food, the presence of toxins and water temperatures. The presence of predators or pathologies. The previously performed extraction volume directly defines existing players for the next year. However, we can point to our agreement as to how these reports are already made by area biologists, and I note that they were at the disposal of stakeholders, who are the confrries themselves, and so they confirmed us several of them. We believe, therefore, that a councillor who has responded to this House's availability 95% of the information requested will have no problem in fulfilling information in this area of the request; even if they have been explained in the corresponding territorial heads, to their members, by biologists who know them. With regard to the third point, we believe that there is no obstacle to accepting it, as the same adviser, in his intervention to account for the budget plan for 2020, explained in this House that the programme 561A, corresponding to R & D+i, will increase in its funds by 6.4%, above the amount claimed at this point. This is important because it goes beyond the research itself which results in the transferees to the sector.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u267	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u268	Yes, I'm done. For example, the budget of Cetmar, which increased from only EUR 50 million in 2009 to more than EUR 292 million in 2018. To finish, confirm our support for the motion, and also request more coherence in this issue from some opposition groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u269	Thank you very much, Mrs. Salorio. For the group that is the author of the motion, Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u270	Thank you, President. They are also surprised at this motion, but there is no problem giving any answer to what the honourable Member has said, which is also surprising. The advantage of defending certain coherent speeches enables you to give answers like this. Look, we, our group, had the opportunity to intervene in this plenary session in a debate about hepatitis C, and I subscribe to the coma and word for word what we said. I'm going to repeat it, it may not be literal, excuse me if I'm not, so... well, I think it's necessary. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The judicial response will say what it says, that it is not up to us, but we have discussed here, in Parliament, a moral issue, something we continue to defend. And we argue... I'm talking about a moral issue, if you don't mind, listen. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We're discussing a political decision, and a political decision that is that not all hepatitis patients have been given treatment, which would not have happened to another government. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And allow me a plugin. [[Applause]] That decision, which is a moral and political decision, which is what we discussed and continue to discuss, is that you will regret all your life, if you have to do it well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u271	Quiet, please. Silence! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u272	And from here, about the motion they came to discuss...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u273	Quiet, quiet. We're already in the last intervention before we vote. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u274	...on the initiative that some groups have come to debate, I thank the support shown. Finally, Counselor, we're going to have the reports you said here two weeks ago. You must have been influenced to vote in favour of the People's Party. We thank him for that vote and we celebrate it. There's some appreciation about the saying, I think Mr. Pancho Casal mentioned a couple of questions. I think you should review the protocol and the procedure of how these permits are given, and I can share that it is listened to 5% of research. Something happened to me. When you said he was a scout, I looked for his amendment to see where he asked for it and I didn't find it. So you're gonna let me tell you it's an escort, but I haven't found it where you're proposing to increase it, because it might have been interesting. It's listening, and we also understand the difficulties that it has to increase budgets that in general terms are quite structured, because staff issues and current spending already delimit a lot, but we believe that starting to increase a good part is a step. Surely you could increase more, and then you're absolutely right. To insist on thanking the support for the motion, to see if from here, of that level of reports that we can get, we have the capacity among all of us to give some more solvent response to the sector, which is demanding it, and could be productive to all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u275	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u276	We turn to motion votes. Close the doors. We started with the vote on the first motion, the 3.1th, not in the debate, but in the 3.1th Parliamentary Group on the Left, at the initiative of Mrs Maria Ángeles Cuña Bóveda and Mrs Luca Chao Pérez. Amendments to the Joint Parliamentary Group and to the Socialist Group of Galicia have been accepted. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. Joint Left Group, at the initiative of Da María de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and Da Luca Chao Pérez, on the actions that must be carried out at Junta de Galicia in relation to the attention to the diversity of the student in the teaching centers. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u277	We are now voting on the second motion, 3.2, of the Group of the Left's Joint Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Carmen Santos Queiruga. The amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia is accepted and the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. Joint Left Group, at the initiative of Da Carmen Santos Queiruga, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government and the actions to be carried out in relation to the situation of the judges of violence against women. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u278	We shall now proceed to the vote on the next motion, on 3.3 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Julio Torrado Quintela. No amendments were tabled to this initiative. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the performances to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with the extraction of Berberech in the rivers of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. The motion was therefore adopted by 70 votes to one.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u279	We finally moved on to motion 3.4 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Noela Blanco Rodríguez. The amendment of the Joint Parliamentary Group was accepted. E of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego is accepted as the amendment to point 2, which is included as point 2(e)
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u280	Tell me, Mrs. Rodríguez?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u281	With regard to the vote on this point, Mrs Blanco's speech called on the People's Group to vote in favour of the first item. In our speech, we said that if the Socialist Group did, we would vote in favour...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u282	But what do you want?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u283	Whether we can vote and whether they agree to vote in favour of this first point. Separate voting...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u284	Mrs. Blanco, do you accept the point vote? Tell me if you accept.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u285	I think if you've heard my entire speech, you'd also hear me say that the theme of poverty is a cross-cutting issue, and that if you want to vote against housing issues and employment issues... [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u286	That's it. We're done. Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanco. [[Murmurs.]] Silence! Silence! The author may decide how to vote, at least until now. Quiet. [[Strong murmurers.]] We've come to the vote. Everyone who votes or thinks it's appropriate. Quiet, Mr Pazos. Silence! We're voting. I don't know if they know, but we're voting. Silence, they don't know what they vote for! [[Murmurs.]] [[Strong murmurers.]] Text vote on the G.P. Motion. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to poverty and social exclusion. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u287	We move on to the next point of non-law proposals. Open the doors, please. Proposal for a non-law of the G. P. Joint Left Group, at the initiative of Mr. Antón Sánchez García and Mr. David Rodríguez Estévez, on the allocation by the Galician Council of the necessary personal and budgetary means to the Mabegondo Agricultural Research Centre, with the coverage of the vacancies of existing investigator staff
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u288	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u289	Mr Sánchez has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u290	Good afternoon. Research is fundamental to the future of any country, and research is fundamental to the future of our Greek agriculture and rural environment, which has many challenges ahead that need a leading research. Challenges such as productive diversification, sustainability of the agricultural and milk production model. In particular, reducing the dependence of inputs on agriculture and growing, productivity of forage crops, biological struggle for pests and diseases, the creation of new products and a long et cetera. And for a democratic and sustainable family farming, it's essential that research be public. We can hear very good words from the People's Party and the Council of Galicia, but after ten years the words are no longer valid, the only thing that matters is facts and figures, and the figures say that, despite the fact that the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2010-2014 set as an objective to increase spending on R+D+i to 2% of the German GDP, today we are at 0.94%, less than half the target proposed by the Government Feijóo and well below the level we were at when we arrived at the Government; not much below, but below. In Plan 2015-2020, in the Strategic Plan of Galicia, the same Government Feijóo lowered the target of increased expenditure in R & D+i to 1.5% of GDP, but it will also fail again, and Galicia will be behind the spending on research in the Spanish state. A more unfulfilled promise of Mr. Feijóo, which accumulates at a startling pace. While we're at 0.94% here, the state average is at 1.24%. To get to the average, we would have to increase that expenditure by 189 million euros. The figures are these, and the facts say that the People's Party's bet is the bet on dismantling or weakening of public training, advisory and agricultural research systems. So we have reported it in the dismantling of the comarcasal agricultural offices, where they systematically leave themselves unmet at the agroforestry training centres; and so we also see at the Mabegondo Agricultural Research Centre, which is the object of this initiative; a centre that is in a precarious situation practically since you arrived at the Government, where from 2012 to 2013 45% of the sites covered by researchers have been reduced, and since then we have continued in the same situation. In this center of agricultural research in Mabegondo, a center with professional pointheads and large professionals engaged, there are 22 research squares of which are only 11 covered, and we have spent many years with half the uncovered squares. This is reality, this is not questionable. Absolute contempt for public agricultural research. The reality also tells us of a cut in current spending on investments over these years, current spending that makes it difficult for the proper operation of the centre, and reduction of investments, which implies the deterioration of the facilities. This situation of personal cuts also makes it difficult to access this center and the teams that can form funds that are obtained in competitive competition. The shortage of equipment with enough personnel is that even if they can obtain resources outside the budgets of the Union, which shows that, in addition to economic cuts, bad governance and one — we believe — squandering resources. It also produces the trumping of the desirable relief in research, which is a long, long, studyable work of much perseverance and stability, as it also occurred in research of the genetic improvement of corn, where this center had one of the most important experts worldwide, who retired and currently has no relief, that work is no longer done. When you get away with these things in professionals, you lose your knowledge that they're of incalculable value. And it's not only the reduction of human and economic resources, but also the poor governance and inefficiencies in the use of public funds, and this whole set of things puts public research at risk for the future; a public research in fundamental agriculture for our future. The Galician Union, in its policy of destroying rural areas, bets on the dismantling of the country. But we believe that the future of this rural environment is in knowledge, in democratic knowledge, and not only in knowledge in the hands of multinationals. To cover this gap, the People's Party, to cover its true policy, opts for advertising and propaganda and finally for frivolity, as is the announcement of the transfer of the germplasma bank to the theme park of the rural environment of Sergude. Confirm here that this is going to be so, that there's an intention to transfer the germplasma bank to the theme park in the rural environment of Sergude, because we know it by communications from the Galician Union, but nothing else. Confirm here if that's true. What we think is that you want to reduce the rural environment to a theme park, you want to reduce it to something that can be shown in a museum, but little more. While they do this theme park, they dismantle that and those structures that created that germplasma bank with years of work. I don't know if the German Government understands that it's a germplasma bank, how it works and what needs it has. I don't think so, or you don't care what happens to this germplasma bank. A question that hasn't even been consulted with the staff of the centre, with the staff that works every day with this germplasm bank, which needs optimal conservation and also multiplication in crop fields, of which many times the facilities of the Mabegondo Agricultural Research Center are even badly equipped. These professionals are unheard over and over again. So it's increasingly visible its policy of destruction of rural areas to let these large and multinational companies, which you favor, do business. This model is also reflected in the elimination of the Paritory of Verín, a measure more than dismantling rural areas and removing the future from rural areas; this model has been emptying Galicia for years, emptying the rural of Galicia. In front of that model, we believe that the model of the future has to go through knowledge to create jobs and wealth for the majority and to be able to fix population in rural areas. That model must bet on strengthening public services and not dismantling them. There's no other way to fix population than with public services. Small agriculture, which creates more employment and better quality, cannot be done without public research services. They can only do research and training for large companies, but these companies are the ones that elsewhere, elsewhere, work with workers with absolute precariousness, exploit the workers absolutely and cause serious environmental impacts. You have to bet on productive diversification and sustainability, and for that, a stronger and powerful public research is essential. That's why in this non-law proposal we call for it to be provided with the necessary human and economic resources, but only to cover the squares in this Mabegondo Agricultural Research Centre, those 22 squares in the relationship that comes in the budgets and of those that are not covered eleven. That they have economic resources, because the spending on research, personnel and economic resources for research is a future investment that we receive repeatedly multiplied. That is the future to reverse the rural situation of this country. What you've been applying in these ten years, takes us to the data that we know today: an increasingly abandoned, older farm; an increasingly abandoned and older rural. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u291	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. First of all, Mr Pérez Seco has the floor of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u292	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The Mabegondo Agricultural Research Centre, of which we are talking about today in this initiative, is a reference centre in agri-food research not only at the Greek level, but also at the state level and at the foreign level. A center with a great history, one of the best R & D+i centers that owns the Rural Councillory, so there are countless projects that the Mabegondo Agricultural Research Centre has developed. Projects such as research on forage corn, as Mr. Sánchez said before; research on fruit trees; research on silos; research on sustainable pasture management; research on production with native livestock species and crosses, etc. I mean, we're talking about a huge legacy that must continue to consolidate, maintain and enhance, so the transfer of knowledge, both from the rural world to research and on the contrary, in these two senses of balance, is an essential function for the good functioning and use of the research work of the center of Mabegondo. Today, with climate change, the loss of population in rural areas and the lack of generational relief, the work of the centre of Mabegondo is increasingly needed in order to adapt the farms and the whole of the Greek agri-food sector to the new times and those that are about to come. However, in recent years we are seeing how there seems to be a disinterest on the part of the Galician Union, and more specifically the Rural Councillory, in which the centre of Mabegondo continues to function fully. That is what the spokesperson for the Left Joint Group observed, in which researchers are under 50 percent of the available real squares. This means that many projects, both national and foreign, cannot be carried out in this center. Investments in new materials and installations also seem to be stagnant, and the number of own funds has been reduced for current spending. We see how in the budgets for 2020 the Rural Media Council, through Agacal, has a start of just over 300,000 euros for a study of ideas in Sergude, more precisely in the Peace of Kenya, where the Union will recreate rural Galicia. It seems good that it's becoming stronger and that rural values, so that's what we're doing in rural legislation. It's good that new installations are made, new projects, but what we have so far, such as the Mabegondo Agricultural Research Centre, the reference centre for agri-food research, should not be left out. As I said before, the number of researchers is decreasing, as the professionals are retireing without any relief from the Board, and this situation leads us to believe that there is a dismantling of this center. I say dismantle because the non-incorporation of personnel, and the idea of the Council to move from the center of Mabegondo to Sergude the plant resource bank of Galicia, with seeds of all the products of the garden, seems to indicate that the Council does not have much interest in the center of Mabegondo. So to finish, we've tabled an amendment to put together duties on board and incorporate the personnel needed for research in downtown Mabegondo before this legislation is over. We are going to vote in favour of this initiative even if our amendment is not adopted, and, Mr Sanchez, I hope you are more fortunate than when we debate this same initiative in Commission 7a. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u293	Thank you very much, Mr. Pérez Seco. Mr. Rodríguez Estévez-
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u294	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all again. 131 years ago, in 1888, the Experimental School Farm of the Coruña was created for research, training and dissemination of knowledge and agrarian technology. The farm was joined a year later by the Galician Phytopathology Station, located in the same facilities. The current Mabegondo Agricultural Research Centre and the Galician Agrarian and Phytopathological Laboratory both come from those institutions that in their beginnings were pioneers, singular and advanced in the pre-industrial range of Spain. We're talking about 131 years of history. At the beginning of the 1970s there was a turning point in the situation of agrarian research in Galicia. For the first time in history, and thanks to the agreements with the World Bank, a set of young university and university graduates were sent and sent to various research centres and foreign universities to specialize in different agricultural areas. We're talking about 131 years of history. Upon their return, these specialists laid hands on the work, within the newly established Regional Research and Agricultural Development Centre, in their work of generating relevant, new and useful knowledge for the development of Galician agriculture. They were counting on new installations on CRIDA 01 farm, you're in Mabegondo, where they're right now. We can say that the agricultural research system applied in Galicia began here a progressive decline since the late 1980s, coincided with the disappearance of the knowledge transfer instruments to farmers, who were bridged between the research and the recipients of it. Here we can stop studying dates. And it was with Bipartite, starting in 2006, when they started laying the groundwork to reshape the research system of the Agriculture Council at that time, today the Rural Environmental Council. Its implementation was based on a premise, which was to recognize in practice the strategic role of applied research, the transfer of technology and agrarian training in the development of rural Welsh, in a manner consistent with the economy of public resources. This was a pure-state ICAM in its research premise, a pure-state ICAM in its transmission of knowledge. And at the ICAM beginning in 2009, speaking of budgets, they said that it was going to be written "but we trust that they will allow the modernization of the research centres of the Rural Middle East Council to continue to promote the task of generating and imparting knowledge to the Greek agricultural sector." "We trust that the new government" — they said in 2009 — "understands that investments in research and training, and technology transfer, are productive and future investments, which are based on the medium and long-term competitiveness for Greek agriculture." They didn't. The Government of the People's Party who came to rule then didn't understand anything and threw down the floor 131 years of history. There were no troops of field investigators; today we're talking about it being under 50 per cent of the troops. No investments were made in machinery, installations and scientific equipment. The German Government does not meet the needs of the centre's staff, both researchers and workers. Of the 22 investigators' squares, 11 are vacant. The shortage of staff makes it difficult to work and raise funds from European projects, which we are losing. There is also a budget deficit for the daily management of the centre itself, reducing to enormously hampering its management. And in rural legislation, the Galician Union has been dismantling and weakening research, training and transfer of knowledge for years. So we see more than necessary this non-law proposition, and as Mr. Seco said, we hope it will run more fortunate than the one he had in the commission. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u295	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. Mr Rivas Cruz has the floor for the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u296	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. It says there was a time in this country of milk and honey in which public research was at the service of the field's economic development and transformation and kept a good number of researchers active. And we believe in this fact those who have been witnesses to the effort made by the peasant population that has transformed rural people, giving as fruits the milk revolution. Social and economic transformation of the agricultural and livestock sectors, which came out of the 19th century's auto-consumption, already in the last third of the 20th century, and which transforms the Italian rural into milk and meat, tractors and febrile activity, dynamism and hope. This revolution has two engines, which work on a single gear: the Agrarian Extension Agencies and the ICAM. Agrarian research had already come from old age: Agricultural Farm of Monelos, of 1888, the Biological Mission, Cruz Gallastegui, the hybridization of corn, the meadows and the field work. The experiment and the common desire to take Galicia out of isolation and economic poverty in which it fell by the Franco-Crantinian involution. And so, in the 1980s and 1990s there was a miracle and the ball field -- as I told them -- in a frenzy of change that I would call revolutionary. Then the barbarians arrive and decide that the recovery must be stopped, that small farms must close and, above all, that everything needs to be privatized so that everything will be more effective and more profitable, we don't know who. And with the insensitivity and the self-restraint on the right, the public is disarmed unmistakably. Private counseling replaces the public, and public research, at the service of agricultural society, is intentionally beaten. The agricultural offices are dismantled and the ICAM is looted, and as the holders of the research squares retire, they remain empty, orphan of continuity, and the experience, the school created over the years, is broken down and lost, because the generation of researchers formed in the seventies of the last century in the best agricultural research centers of the world retired coincided with the laws of Mr. Fexóo as president of the Greek Government. Many of these researchers went on voluntarily until they were seventy years old; some of them refused to be able to continue to meet sixty-five. And researchers who have trained and carried out their theses in the wake of their experience and knowledge have not been given the opportunity to continue by not convening the selective processes to cover the vacant research squares, having to leave, at more than forty years of age, with extensive and brilliant curricula adapted to priority lines of agrarian research. This work of annihilation has been done for ten years, and it has already yielded its fruits. 50% of the uncovered and unplanned squares of the Council's amendment. Among the most outstanding lines of research that have been left without researchers, and which affect the fundamental sectors of the Italian countryside, the following are highlighted. Agrarian economy. Researchers were enrolled in studies on economic aspects of Galician agricultural holdings and published annual production costs studies in the Greek dairy sector. Corn genetic improvement. The best collection of native varieties of maize from all over the state, from the ICAM germplasma bank, has no one to store or renew the seeds. The selection and improvement of new hybrids adapted to Greek conditions are paralysed irreversibly. Better genetics of pranks. Same situation as indicated for the corn case. By the way, corn and grass are the basic foods of our cow, and if we lack responsibility, the irreplaceable genetic heritage of the germplasm banks will disappear, because the seed, if it doesn't renew each time, loses germinative power. Extensive beef production system based on pasture and fodder. The investigation line came up with five investigators at the ICAM, and now there's none. Budget problems? We don't think so. Then they announced the bomb and dish that they're going to clean 10 million euros in a 100-hectare shop in Quián, Sergude, at a megalomary advertising party where they've converted rural Galician over the last ten years. And I guess they'll take the germplasm bank there, that treasure that survived the barbarism of the People's Party in the last few years as a reward for volunteerism. And I know no one will do the necessary research that accelerates the adaptation of our seeds to the announced drought, those that make up the past and the present, and must be in the future of our food. And I heard teenage Agacal was going to do his best to remedy the deficiencies, but nothing at all. Since the BNG we will support this LNP and we will support any policy that boosts public research for the benefit of the rural economic sectors. We were all supposed to, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u297	Thank you, Mr. Rivas Cruz. On behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Blanco Paradelo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u298	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Indeed, we are at the initiative of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, registered on 9 July by Antonio Sánchez García and Davide Rodríguez Estévez. I think that with regard to the other author they should share the time in the exhibition, and you would have to have that turn too because you are the author. We're talking about that then, July 2018, when En Marea was that strong group that ruled in cities; here they were the majority group of opposition; it was the alternative that would solve all the problems; and it turns out that you yourself became their biggest problem. They were happy about that then because a month earlier, along with the Socialist Party, a People's Party government with a motion of legitimate censorship, but infamous and shameful, supported by a false fruit of a sectarian paragraph that appeared in a sentence. So, Mr. Sánchez, you cried out against all cases of corruption. And today and these days, against the biggest case of corruption, which condemns the Socialist Party for stealing 680 million EREs, you didn't say anything at all. That's why I wanted to say that, in fact, the Socialist Party will not apologize for accusing Mr Feijóo of being responsible for his deaths because of hepatitis C, it will not apologize. [[Applause]] And the previous deputy said that one thing is the judicial resolution and another is the moral one. Well, the judges spoke very clearly in the ERE cases, and they told them that you are the most corrupt party in Europe, and you didn't say anything. And if they want, we're going aside from morals, and the morals is that they stole 680 million people who were dedicated to the unemployed, that there should be shame! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Going to the initiative, Mr. Sánchez, I very much appreciate you bringing the initiative back, because it gives us the opportunity to talk again about the Mabegondo Research Center and also about Agacal, who depends on it. I don't know why you always present the initiative only asks by this research center in Mabegondo. I don't know if you have any personal interest in this center. I'd like you to clarify it because you never talk about the other centers. In addition to this center, I have to tell you that there is also the Lourizán Forest Research Centre, Galician Viticulture and Enology Station in Leiro, Galician Agrarian and Phytopathological Laboratory, which also complements six centres of agricultural training and experimentation in Sergude, Guísamo, Becerreá, Pedro Murias, Ribadeo, Monforte de Lemos and Lourizán. And you don't talk about any of them. And tell you not only words, I'll tell you facts. Look, the director of Agacal came to explain the budgets he depends on, and it's budgets that increase by more than 18%, reaching EUR 33.7 million. We especially want to say that real investments in chapter VI are increased by more than 43%, the investment dedicated to agricultural, forestry and blueberry R&D+i. And capital transfers, Chapter VII, increase by almost 24%. I also want to say that it is necessary to highlight the rise of 30% of the research centres in Mabegondo and Lourizán and the maintenance of the budget of the six training centres, with almost EUR 700,000. So I also want to tell you that specifically the centre of Mabegondo, which tells the PSOE that you are not interested in the center of Mabegondo and you speak of dismantling: chapter II, current expenses and goods and services, in 2018, 313.160 euros; in 2019, 650,000 and 2020, 713,000. What do you mean by dismantling? I'd like you to explain. By the way, you say in your amendments that you're going to have less staff every time, and it turns out that the staff split in chapter I is going to grow by 6.36 per cent. Don't you realize that they have absolutely no rigour for their statements? What I want to tell you is that you're working, as the director of Agacal told you, in the consolidation of an administrative structure of central services that allow the investigator's staff to devote themselves to their main function: research. We are also working, as you said, together with other departments responsible for the Board, for the staffing of the research staff squares, which actually add added added value to the purely focused research support work. And thirdly — the Director also said — that a comprehensive strategic plan will soon be put in place for training in the field of agriculture, livestock and forestry — I hope that Mr Rivas will like the name, which will include regular and professional training, in addition to certificates of professionalism and continuing training, and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u299	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u300	...that they give the six centres inscribed in this agency. So we cannot adopt an initiative that is part of false premises and wants to reach conclusions [...]. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u301	Thank you very much, Mr. Blanco. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Sánchez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u302	Speaking of morals, you're not immoral, you're immoral, you're devoid of all sense of morals. [They're miserable, they're a corrupt party from top to bottom].
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u303	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u304	They don't even have the slightest decency, they don't have the least decency! You can't argue with yourself. You can't argue with yourself because what you're dedicated to, like Mr. Blanco Paradelo, when you have no arguments or facts, is shitting,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u305	Silence! Silence, Mr. Pazos! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u306	...to fuck up. Let the People's Party come here to talk and demand something about corruption is an absolute indecency, absolute! They have no decency. [[Applause]] Call whatever you want. [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u307	Silence! Mr. Peace, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u308	And because they have no decency...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u309	Silence! Excuse me, Mr. Sánchez... Mr. Sánchez, excuse me for a moment. Silence! Mr. Paz, I call you by order. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u310	Because they have no decency, they don't get colored when they lie. And they don't get colored, when they talk to that staff that transfers their claims just for years, by lying in front of that staff who knows what you've been doing. You come here and mind, and you don't talk about what you have to talk about, because you have no decency or dignity or morals. That's what he does. [[Murmurs.]] Well, from there...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u311	Silence! Silence! Calm down! Silence, Mr. Blanco!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u312	I'm not insulting, I'm defining. [[Murmurs.]] No, no, it's a definition...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u313	Mr. White, be quiet, or I'll call you by order. Silence! Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u314	I hope I can finish with time, because I haven't talked for two minutes. As for the question that brought us here, for seven years now, this center has, in fact, twenty-two squares, eleven covered, and on that Mr. Blanco Paradelo has not given any argument why 50% of the vacant squares are kept. He gave no explanation why, having one of the greatest experts in maize genetic improvement, he didn't get relief when he retired and he didn't expect relief, and why he's in that situation the germplasm bank and research into forages and pranks. He didn't say anything because they have no arguments, because they really have to talk about these other things that you've talked about not to talk about that they're really dismantling the whole public, whether in agricultural research, whether in health care, or in social services. You and your neoliberal ideology are what they do. That's what they do. They recognize it and say that it doesn't make sense for you to spend on public research so that it doesn't happen what's happening now in the world and what's happening in Galicia, that the monopoly of knowledge has it by the large multinationals, and that's why they create a huge dependence on farmers worldwide. That's what you get when you take away the power to have public services to people who can't pay for themselves an investigation like you can pay companies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u315	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u316	...that they investigate and then they do business with farmers at the expense of government like their...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u317	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u318	So, the truth is that, and the rest of it, what you've come to do and what you usually do, is throw shit at others not to talk about their reality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u319	Thank you very much. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure says that Members can be called upon whenever they are out of the question, already because of strange differences to the point in question, by coming back to something that was being discussed. Normally, in this parliament, for a long time, Members' shifts have been used to make reference to other points, on the part of all groups, without discussion, on all sides; on the one hand, on the other, on the other, and on the other, on the other; they all do the same. You can usually call the question. What we do, of course, is not to prolong time. If anyone wants to use his turn to talk about something else, there he is; I think it must not be done. Of course, a strict application would give a call to the question. To me, of course, it does not seem appropriate on the part of anyone, but here I have seen it by Members of all groups; of all, without exception. Really, everyone. I hope it does not repeat itself and, if not, we will take the decision to call the matter at first. Having said that, Mr Sánchez, I ask you to withdraw from your speech the qualification of "mersible and corrupt" referring to all Members of this parliamentary group. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. I ask you to remove those words from your intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u320	I don't take them off.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u321	Okay, that's it. [[Murmurs.]] No, no, that's it. That's it. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] I'll take them back. That's it! [[Murmurs.]] They don't appear in the Journal of Sessions, I take them away and I call it by order. [[Murmurs.]] And he has a call to order because it's implicit in the President's withdrawal. [[Murmurs.]] You take back what is in this case in the office of the president and no longer appear in the Journal of Sessions. So let's continue with the next initiative. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Together, on the initiative of Da Paula Vázquez Verao and two other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the situation in Galicia with regard to climate change and environmental deterioration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u322	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block and by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] I'm gonna have to keep calling the order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u323	Mr. Rodríguez Estévez has the floor to make the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u324	Thank you, President. Again, good afternoon. We live in a time of climate emergency. We live in a time of environmental deterioration that has already reached almost a point of no return, not back. The transition to a greenhouse-free economy requires profound social change and, therefore, profound political change. The situation of global climate degradation and emergency caused by a policy of unlimited growth and depredation based on the predatory exploitation of natural resources is an unfair trading mechanism — social injustice and environmental injustice — and a model of consumption that requires a radical change in energy, industrial and consumer policies that promote large corporations and that populations without criticism, in many cases, we practice. The situation of environmental imbalance and human inequality, north and south - which includes increasingly wider sources of environmental degradation in the north and maximum poverty in the south - calls for urgent measures, energetic actions and an intergenerational vision. Political ecology is no longer a policy of a change program, it's a model of what to turn the rest of the climate agenda around, as many movements are being formulated in different parts of our planet. In Marea, the following facts are true: climate change is an urgent crisis that poses a serious threat to global stability and to human existence itself. The Government Panel on Climate Change issued a special report on the impact of global warming and the need to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 to maintain warming to 1.5 degrees and avoid the most catastrophic impacts of climate change. This can be possible through ambitious actions by the State, national, subnational, civil society itself, the private sector, peoples and local communities. The current pace and scale of national climate action are not sufficient to avoid significant damage to the economy, the environment and human health in the coming decades. We must be part of the global exchange chain and ensure energy, industrial and consumption transition programmes that address the challenges of climate change, to which certain large corporations in our country today, in Galicia, contribute decisively. Programs that have as pillars sustainable energy self-sufficiency, responsible consumption and food sovereignty itself. If we don't take the flag of the fight against climate change, we're going to betray not only ourselves but also the next generations that are on the streets demanding that their future be not stolen. We have to build a sustainable future proposal for Greek society. This implies a redefinition of the forest policy itself, of the agricultural and livestock holdings, of our way of consumption, of our way of moving and of our productive tissue, and of improving awareness of the recycling of all the existing natural resources and of the natural resources that we generate. The exploitation of our mountains must go from the predatory economy of the monoculture of eucalyptus and pine to the recovery of native and traditional species, such as can be oaks, chestnuts or bilders, well adapted to our climate, with a new forest law of Galicia which prohibits plantations throughout the territory of these alien species and which sets the realistic objective of gradual substitution of eucalyptus and pine trees by native leafy species with adequate funding. And this is totally the opposite of what the German Government is doing with the revision of the new Forest Plan. As for energy generation, the only renewable energy that's in the joint plans is wind, and that's exactly the one that has the most environmental impact. Acquiring energy sovereignty means boosting self-generation or self-consumption of solar energy, geothermal energy, and launching the exploitation of other types of energy. You must bet on electrical mobility, the limitation of the movement of polluting vehicles and the creation of a railway infrastructure own for the surroundings that will reverse the territory and thus reduce the use of cars, the use of the private vehicle. It is necessary to take administrative simplification measures to avoid endangering the achievement of climate crisis mitigation targets. The vision of four years and the good words often accompanied by the Government of null will of real change are things of the past. We're in a state of emergency; we have to act, we have to do it collectively and we can't waste more time. We call for this non-legislative proposal: to declare Galicia as a country at risk of climate emergency for the threat of all society in general and also the present world; to implement a plan in this political course to revitalize the Greek rural environment, working on an appropriate scale, proximity and comarcasmation in the administration of agricultural and comarcas resources — not to take catering from The Porriño to Manzaneda to feed our children—; to develop within a maximum of two months a strategy to strengthen the prevention of forest fires itself, both by means of personal and material and economic means, reflecting the current system of extinction to be taken into account in the adoption of the 2020 Pladigo; and to develop within a maximum of three months a plan to promote the autogeneration and self-consumption of solar or geothermal energy. Ladies and gentlemen, we call on this non-law proposal, among other things, to declare the climate emergency. And to declare the climate emergency requires the fulfilment of real political commitments and political commitments that are binding; much more ambitious than those that currently manage Mr. Núñez Feijóo's Executive, with the following allocation of resources to deal with the climate crisis: a binding roadmap that is able to guarantee the necessary annual greenhouse gas reductions, abandon fossil fuels, bet on one hundred percent renewable energy and reduce net carbon emissions to zero as quickly as possible and as a matter of priority, in line with the indications in the IPCC report to limit that increase of temperatures to 1.5 degrees centigrade of what we were talking about before. A state of emergency involves redirecting all available resources from the Board to confront the climate crisis with the associated problems. The declaration of climate emergency is to start a process of education, training and awareness of the entire population about the truth of the ecological crisis and the enormous change needed to curb the emergency. That is why, in this non-law proposal, we call for the support of all parliamentary groups. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u325	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez. On behalf of the parliamentary groups, Mr Bará Torres has the floor, on behalf of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u326	I'm going to read you a media headline these days: "The world in the opposite direction: it consumes more and more energy, burns more fossil fuels and increases emissions." This headline tells us about the dramatic reality, despite all the climate agreements, which remain very well on paper, but seem to be signed for failure. And so it was from Rio to the latest in Paris in 2015, which was already a very light agreement and yet it is not being met, as the reports of the Intergovernmental Panel for Climate Change of the United Nations are being made manifest, which are alerting and drawing attention to the serious consequences of non-compliance with those agreements. Now we're at the Cumio de Madrid, at COP25, and it turns out these peaks have both sides as well. On the one hand, they have the face of public debate, alertness, alarm about the gravity of the situation and the need to take action; and they also have the face of the spectacle — a cynical and perverse spectacle, often obscene — in this authentic exercise of cosmetics, camouflage, massive deception in which the main responsible for the climate crisis want to be passed by the saviors of the planet, beginning with the patronage itself: that of a multinational called Iberdrola, that of the famous embrace of the Oberdoire. In the recent history of this country there are two memorable embraces: that of Sánchez and Churches and now — and also before — in 2009, the memorable embrace of Feijóo and Mr Galán in the square of the Oberdoiro to pay the future favors. [[Applause]] And this kind of summit is also an exercise of filibusterism, like that of the mayor of Madrid, who seems to have fallen from the path of the Almudena or the path of Mingorrubio -- I don't know where he was going, but the truth is that he fell from the animal and now he's also turned into the struggle against climate change -- or an exercise of pharisaism also from the Board of Galicia, which also points to the washing of face with his assistance at this summit and which defends and promotes policies that are not against it, but instead they favor climate change — as we will say later, if we give ourselves time. [[Laughter]] The important thing here is to focus the debate, as always, on the causes. And here goes the famous phrase, also famous: "It's economy, stupid"; or, if they want, better, "It's capitalism, stupid." Because it is that predatory, voracious capitalism based on the policy of resources that is causing this serious crisis. And we've seen it these days, besides, with that apotheosis of Black Friday consumption, which you like so much. For that is to destroy resources; that is to go against traditional trade, proximity trade, local trade, and favour that trade of large multinationals that have a gross negative impact. Climate emergency statements in this context are fine, they remain beautiful, but they are also a fashion that started in Britain and that, if it's not accompanied by concrete measures, by concrete commitments, and it's only a statement to the gallery, because it also ends up being an exercise of camouflage and simulation. And if even the People's Party embraces these kinds of statements, we don't know what to think: pure cosmetics, Chanel politics, Loreal politics, which is what the People's Party does. [[Murmurs.]] That's why we propose measures of another kind, starting with the Government's own hierarchy. You have an average overall direction dedicated to climate change, and we propose a commissioner, we propose an agency for climate and weather, and we also propose, through an amendment, that a crisis committee be made in which all administrations are involved, that they work together to deal with this serious problem and to change the direction, the sectoral policies that the People's Party is making in terms of waste...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u327	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u328	...in the field of mobility, in forestry, in mining, in energy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u329	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u330	...or spatial planning.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u331	Thank you very much, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u332	We need to change those policies to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u333	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u334	Thank you very much. Your time is up. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] You have the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u335	Thank you, President. Good evening - night already - everyone and everyone. In July, we proposed from the Socialist Parliamentary Group an institutional statement to declare Galicia in a state of climate emergency. We didn't know much — or sometimes anything — from any of the other groups, and it wasn't ahead. Today we have a non-law proposition from the Joint Group that, at its first point, calls for that statement, not from a state, but from a risk of climate emergency. The Congress of Deputies and the European Parliament themselves have already moved forward, which has said so. At that time we believed that, among all of us, we could make Galicia pioneer — it would be the second autonomous community in Spain to do so — but, anyway, it is good to do so today too. I'm going to read a few paragraphs that aren't sectarians; I'm from the UN secretary-general. They are not sectarians because they are not the judgments of a judgment like that of Gürtel, who has condemned to be profit-making parties for the offence of appropriation under article 122 of the Criminal Code. They are non-sectarian paragraphs — because they are not in a sentence — that the UN Secretary General said on the day he opened the Summit of Climate: "We must do more than we are asked for by the people, we must show political ambition. Otherwise, there will be a betrayal of the entire human family and of the generations to come. Either we stop the carbon addiction or all our efforts to deal with climate change will be doomed. If we don't change our way of life urgently, we put our very lives in danger." They say these non-sectarian paragraphs; the sectarians are only in the judgments, so Mr. Moses White Paradelo said. The WHO CEO also said, "Climatic change is not just a bill that will have to pay for generations to come, but is already being paid through people's health." Well, he talks about coal and ambition in mitigation, adaptation and financing against climate change, which is what we've been telling the Government of the People's Party for years in this House. One day in the past, we were told that -- it's true -- any initiative, any non-law proposition about climate change, it's not ambitious; it's always little ambitious. For all the ambition we have, we're already going behind, because the process is already under way and we won't be able to stop it even if we want it. In any case, we can adapt and mitigate it. We made an amendment to try to improve the request of the non-law proposition of the Joint Group and add two paragraphs that were on our previous motion, because we believe it is important that Galicia has a plan of decarbonization. It's very good to come here to say I don't know what other governments do, and do nothing about the decarbonization of the country, which is essential for that just ecological transition to exist. We believe that this autonomous decarbonization plan — and that's why our fifth paragraph — is needed and we also promote a comprehensive R & D+i plan so that there are new technologies precisely to adapt to that situation that already exists and that will accompany us, of course, no doubt, to the end of our lives, and also to future generations, especially in agriculture, waste management and industry. We're also trying to improve the drafting of the first four points of the non-law proposition. We think it's important to say we're not at risk, but we're already in a state of climate emergency. It's not that there's a risk, it's already here. It's not a risk, we already have it. We've already got her, we've lived with her. We believe that in the paragraph according to our proposal it is perhaps a little clearer, and we set dates — before the month of March 2020, next year — to develop, precisely, a strategy for strengthening forest fire prevention with a fire prevention agency that is publicly available in its 100 percent, and also a study that drives that self-generation and self-consumption of energy, of all kinds of renewable energies that are proposed in the non-law proposal. We hope our amendment is accepted. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u336	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. For the Joint Left Group, Mr. Cal Ogango has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u337	Thank you, President. It goes on to support this initiative that the Joint Group today, the Group of the Tide, whether it's in its original text or whether it's doing some kind of transaction or taking on some of the proposals of the PSOE or the BNG, which we also agree with. We will support all initiatives, as we have said on other occasions, which are in the direction of combating climate change with concrete measures and decisive measures because the situation is truly an alarming and emergency situation, as the spokesmen of the groups who intervened before me have already said. The European Environment Agency itself, in its report on climate change, impacts and vulnerabilities, says that Spain, the Spanish State, is the country that has a greater vulnerability to climate change. There is absolutely alarming evidence indicating the incidence of climate change in the state, such as the increase in temperature in one and a half degrees, which reaches two degrees in some parts of the territory; an increase in sea level on the Atlantic and Cantabrian coast of up to six millimetres per year; a chronic drought situation in most of the territory, with seven of the ten watersheds with higher water stress across Europe; and the disappearance of nearly 90 percent of the extent of glaciers in the state, with accelerated increase in the last three decades. These are the concrete data, the empirical data, which speak of the gravity of the situation throughout the whole of the Spanish State in particular. To this evidence, we must add to the impact on the causes of climate change: an increase in CO2 emissions that was recorded this year, which meant an increase of 4.46% over the previous year, as well as a devastating forest situation, with an increase in fires of 94% over the previous decade, of which 70% occur in Galicia. In this context, Galicia presents a number of specific intrinsic elements that make it especially vulnerable to climate change, but it also has excellent potential to address with solvency a necessary and profound ecological transition in industry, agriculture, energy and transport. What we need is political will; what we need is to abandon negationism and get to work hard at this emergency. The environmental management carried out in Galicia in recent decades has increased this situation of vulnerability to climate change. After years of continued negationism, the consequences agronomic in the form of multiple environmental problems that require a profound change in public policies. The evidence of the unquestionable effects caused by climate change has also shown an increase in social awareness in Galicia. More and more, citizenship therefore demands public administrations to address environmental issues from an integral perspective that covers all public policies. According to the Sociedade report on climate change, prepared by the University of Santiago de Compostela, nine out of every ten citizens are aware that climate change is taking place, but most of them consider that they are little or nothing informed about climate change. And for this to happen, of course, we have whitening operations, such as the one we lived yesterday or the week when the Climatism in the State began, where the company that most contributed to climate change in Galicia and the State occupies all the covers of the major newspapers explaining what the solutions to climate change are. We also see it in the denialist speeches of the far right partner of the People's Party and even in prominent members of the People's Party. Negationism in the People's Party is led by former presidents: both Mr Aznar and Mr. Rajoy. We saw just a few days ago as Aznar said nothing happened, that there was no need to generate alarm with climate change — of course, we know that he defends Endesa's interests, the company that most contributes to climate change. We also saw Rajoy when he said that his brother-in-law said that if we don't know how long he's going to be in a week, as we're going to know the weather in ten years. The same Mr. Rajoy — showing his lack of knowledge of climate issues — said it's like when it rains and nobody knows why. I don't know if when Mr Trenor said in the morning that there were politicians who didn't have the ability to talk about these issues was Mr Aznar, Mr. Rajoy or himself, that this morning he said that we're being over-exaggerated by saying that we need to take climate change into account to legislate on the main vector of social and ecological conditions of climate change. It seemed crazy to him, and he was exaggerated to take into account the Water Framework Directive. If we were to go through the PP, we would continue with this model of predatory uprooting; this neoliberal model, the neoliberalism of amicables that is predatoring the territory...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u338	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u339	...which is privatizing benefits and externalizing costs also in the form of predation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u340	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u341	...and environmental extinction. For our own sake, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u342	Thank you very much, Mr. Cal Ogong. Mr Trenor López has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u343	Yes, good afternoon. Mr. Cal, I'm not going to reproduce what I said in the morning about your intervention. It is registered in the Journal of Sessions. If you want to consult literality, if you have any pleasure in it, I invite you to do it because it is embarrassing for me to reproduce here what I said in the morning. I was telling Mrs Vilan that we could be ahead of the European Union, that you approved nothing of the Declaration of a State of Climate Emergency. But I want to remind you that we are already in front of the European Union. We are already ahead, and we are ahead thanks to the majority group, because it has adopted a motion for a resolution that literally said: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Council to declare the state of climate emergency in Galicia." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's it! [[Applause]] It's done! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] What I don't understand is the problem you have to recognize reality. Of course, I understand that when years go by, maybe there's some memory pond, but this was two months ago. Two months ago we brought to this House a motion for a resolution in which you did not vote in favour, in which you voted against. So much for the Tides of Podemos...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u344	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u345	...as the Joint Group voted against, and the Socialist Party and Mr Bará, the Nationalist Block, voted against. They voted against the State Declaration of Climate Emergency! [[Murmurs.]] So what are they saying here that we could go ahead of the European Union? Of course we are in front of the European Union! Thanks to the People's Party, not you, because for anything important to the country we can never count on you, any of the opposition groups. Jamais! [[Murmurs.]] Jamais! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] How important is the state of emergency declaration that you don't support it! Nor did they want to support the urgent activation of the measures of the Welsh Strategy for Climate Change; nor did you want to support the promotion of the accession of all Galician municipalities to the Mayors' Pact for Climate and Energy, another initiative... Mrs Vilán, please! [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo speaks words that are not perceived.]] It's statements, it's budget strategies. But, look, believe me you have a lot more content than you're proposing, and I'm going to tell you why. And you also voted against the fact that there was a more orderly and fair process of ecological transition. You voted against that. They voted against it! Look, ladies and gentlemen, climate change is an unquestionable reality and Galicia is ready to face that challenge. We have already approved the Welsh Strategy for Climate Change and Energy 2050, the integrated Regional Energy and Climate Plan 2019-2030, which includes one hundred and seventy measures with which more than two hundred and fifty million euros were mobilized up to 2023. [[Murmurs.]] This strategic document is the planning tool for the fight against climate change. It will serve to establish the broad lines of action in the fight against climate change from a regional perspective centred on Galicia, and will also help contribute to the global targets in this area. It's a strategy that covers all the issues and structures around four areas: emission mitigation, adaptation to their impacts, research and innovation and, finally, the social dimension, governance and awareness-raising. Each of these areas has a series of objectives that have concrete measures, many of which are cross-sectional, and which involve almost all the departments of the Union of Galicia. But do you know what these lines are? Do you know them? No, they don't. Because you propose in your amendment a line that is already approved in the strategy: that of research. That's just one of the lines that's approved, and they haven't read it. They didn't read the strategy! Otherwise, you wouldn't be presenting that initiative. It's just that I'm surprised by the absolute and total ignorance that the opposition groups of the Welsh Strategy and their integral plan have. So important is they didn't lose a minute in reading it; so important. Since October, we have been among the few autonomous communities — fourth — that have approved a roadmap, through a truly participatory process, of which more than sixty-ninety people from different fields have been involved, who have been working for two years...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u346	Mrs. Vilan, I'll call you in order. She's been warned several times.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u347	It was published in the Official Gazette of Galicia and you were also able to make contributions. Not one! Not one! You told me your big contribution was to go visit the previous advisor. That was your great contribution to the Strategy of Climate Change! He said it here in the previous motion, in which we discussed this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u348	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u349	Ladies and gentlemen, you have been able to support the Emergency State Declaration in Galicia and have not done so. You...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u350	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u351	...they could have supported the Welsh strategy of climate change, and they didn't. You...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u352	Thank you very much, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u353	...they could have supported the mayors' pact, and they didn't, and they didn't do it alone and exclusively for myopia, because they didn't worry about Galician problems...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u354	Thank you very much. Your time is up. [[Mr. Trenor López utters words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u355	Thank you, President. Mr. Trenor, we did not support your statement because you had associated that CO2 reduction to the year 2050. We amended it and asked it to be by 2040; I think it was quite more ambitious. And that statement came out of the Welsh Strategy for Climate Change and Energy 2050, from which you spoke, and the operational plan. This strategy and this operational plan, which are developed to start implementing them by the year 2023, are mostly based on simple proposals for study and budget-free proposals. The responsibility of the fight against climate change rests once again in citizenship, as the Union avoids demanding a reduction in emissions from the most intensive carbon-based industries through the abandonment of the coal-powered generation. And that's why we vote against it. On the contrary, and with the excuse of the carbon sequestration, it will give cover to a new eucalyptus wave, following the saying of the pastry-energy lobby, as we have already seen on some cover of Galicia's Voice in which it said that the eucalyptus fixes more carbon than the chestnut himself or the oak itself. I mean, fuck you. How are we going to support that? As far as this climate change impact is softened, the plan that you draw does not include extending the area of protected spaces included in the Natura Network or the wet areas to be fixed, keys to climate change damping, as the European Commission itself has warned us. As far as research is concerned, the budgeted amounts by the year 2023 do not reach half a million euros. This is not enough to ensure an efficient follow-up to climate change in our country. Measures such as research into its effects on water resources, terrestrial, marine and coastal ecosystems, primary sector, urban environment, health and the most vulnerable habitats, or research to improve monitoring systems have not even allocated budget. As far as governance and the social dimension are concerned, specific programmes and interventions in the field of non-formal environmental education and other measures of awareness-raising, dissemination and social participation in which some NGOs and some environmental associations have been working for many years. On the amendments, we accept that of the Galician Nationalist Block and thank you for your contribution. They ask us to include it at the end, but we prefer to include it in point 1 and with a small transaction. Where we say "rectification and improvement," "better available techniques." Then we look at him but he doesn't change his amendment. And on the amendment of the PSOE, to see... Amendments No. 1 and No. 2 of the Socialist Party do not change for anything — I think — the original text. Number 4 is also willing to include it in our number 4 and we also appreciate the contribution. And the others, 5th and 6th, almost better tomorrow in the morning, we'll talk, see if we're done. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u356	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the demands of the hospital community relating to the deficiencies existing in different specialties and the future of the kitchen service of the Comarcal Hospital of Verín
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u357	This motion for a non-law was presented with a self-amendment by the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Galicia and another amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u358	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Presas Berganginos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u359	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. First of all, I would like to send our deep appreciation and encouragement to all the people who are still locked up at the Summer Hospital defending our public health. Thank you for defending our public health in front of the actions of the German Government, which are indecent and cowardly, because they're acting indecently and cowardly, and you have to say it with all the letters. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Indecency and cowardice is what we've seen since last November 22 they reported without notice that they were going to close the station and pediatric emergency service; we've only seen lies after deception and manipulation after manipulation. You can't qualify any other way, and today with this initiative we are going, firstly, to deny all these lies and, secondly, to demand what the people are asking for, what the people asked for last Saturday with a demonstration of more than 20,000 people, according to the data of their own official protection: that they rectify, gentlemen of the People's Party. They're still in time to rectify that dismantling policy, which must also be said to be not new — as is the case with this initiative — because their hidden agenda is to turn the Vienna Hospital into a large health center. So we've already brought here complaints about the service of the surgical block, with staff problems. This demonstration of dermatology, constantly derived from Ourense for lack of personnel, was already planned. And we also talk about the increasingly confirmed suspicion that your roadmap is to close the Verin kitchen when you open the new CHUO kitchen; that's your roadmap. And it has to be said that it's indecent as well as how you've managed all this, from behind the staff and lying about what really the intention of the Government is. You lied because you weren't even able to tell the people at the Verín Hospital what they wanted to do. They went from day to day, at first thing in the morning, taking advantage of the fact that he wasn't even the most responsible for the area of gynecology in that hospital. A real shame that also shows the way the Ourense Power acts, with premeditation and alleviation. And that's also why many professionals leave Ourense for how they work there and how Sergas is organized in that province. And not only was it something programmed, unilateral and premeditated, but the German Government came to this House to lie, because last November 13th, nine days before they made this decision public, I want to remind you that the BNG asked the Health Counsellor here for the future of this situation in the face of the continuing complaints in Ourense for the delay of pediatric consultations. We ask openly, we demand that the counsellor here give us the waiting lists of the Hospital Paediatric Service of the three hospitals in Ourense. He didn't, we kept waiting. But that's not all. I told the health counsellor literally that his hidden schedule was that in a few years there were no births or pediatric emergencies. I hardly knew it would take years, it would take exactly nine days. That's an absolute shame. They lied and drew a press release that literally said Sergas was working to ensure pediatric care in Ourense hospitals and was taking all measures to guarantee it in the hospitals of Verín and Valdeorras. And it didn't take 15 days to make that decision. They should have fallen in shame. They should have fallen in shame. [[Applause]] If this lack of decency already invalidates Mr. Almuínña's continued to be political responsible for health in this country, yesterday he also lost an opportunity to rectify after he lost the people at the Summer Hospital for two and a half hours of his life. And besides, you should learn from the past. You should learn from the past and from what this county has already said in its day: it's enough for the health experiments, enough! I've already told Mr. Feijóo when he put us in those foundation experiments that were actually privatizations and that we had after we rescued others with public money. Enough to play with the health of people and our country. They must have learned that they don't play with that question and that people won't allow it. That they do this is unacceptable but, of course, there is a question that people in the area transmit to us and that we also understand this, which is already the top of the hives. To do this is unacceptable. It's unacceptable because they're playing with mothers who have the same rights as any other mother in our country and with children who must have the same rights if they're from Mosque, Viana, Cuedro, Oimbra or Verín who are from any other part of the country. But what's the big deal is they're taking us for fools, which is what they're trying to do when they're trying to instill that fear policy. They're trying to take their mothers as fools, they're trying to take their neighbors as assholes and their own professionals as fools, and that's not acceptable. I've already told them that in Ourense for a long time, people have lost their fear. And that's what was also demonstrated this Saturday: that people are willing to fight, like all those people who are locked up in the hospital today. [[Applause]] And they can take advantage of today to amend this wrong decision, which, above all, is based on lies; they want to make us look stupid and stupid. The first big lie is that this is a technical decision. You want to wear this as a technical decision, which is something experts say, when it's actually a political decision. It's a political decision by the People's Party, by no technical office; it's by Nuñez Feijóo, by Vázquez Almuín and by the Popular Party. And that's the first thing they have to assume. [[Applause]] Because it takes the councillor ten days — which is a shame — to go to Ourense — who has not even dared to go to Verín — does not automatically make that decision of the Holy Spirit; it is from the Health Council and it is from the Council of Galicia. And above all, we have to hear that we are told that it is a matter of security, imposing that speech of fear as if we were stupid and stupid. The data is fake because, above all, you've been talking about forty-five births, when the hospital staff themselves certify that they were already over sixty, when we know in addition to that diversion strategy to Ourense that they were doing to self-justify themselves, and when we know, in addition, that you are speaking on the basis of a 2009 study, without having finished reading the full letter or talking about that they also point out that, in the case of large displacements, it's advisable, even if it's a smaller ratio, etc. But no matter what the bottom line is that we're not numbers, that we're people, and that public services are going to think about meeting rights and not doing numbers, we ask, if we were in such a danger in Verín, why just a few years ago they reformed the parish? Why? Why was this situation taking place so far? Why are there lower ratios than those you say in all of Galician comarcial hospitals? Are they all going to close? Is it after Verín going to the boat? Is it after the boat going to the Navy? Is someone else going after that? We're like to believe them! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They said no less than fifteen days ago and then they did, gentlemen. [[Murmurs.]] At least you're blushing a little, you're blushing a little! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u360	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u361	Besides, they're all based on questioning and insulting the ax and the professionals. That there's a lack of expertise, they say now. They recently awarded the Verín Hospital themselves for a pilot program on postpartum depression—among many other issues that have received recognition—and now the blame will be on both the professionals, who have already been answering it. It's just that he has noses that the precarious government, that the government that calls from the night to the morning a person to work in a surgery, not knowing whether that nurse or nurse has experience in that surgery or not, and a long et cetera, that the government that precariouss the staff, that makes it do kilometres, that makes it have absolutely abusive conditions, that makes there doctors in this country who have recognized — and that they have to pay you for our public wage — fines due to the abusive conditions — fifteen thousand euros in May 2019 to a pediatrician from Ourense, says it's lack of expertise from professionals. You're the ones who put professionals and people who work in hospitals at risk under their working conditions. Have a little shame. [[Applause]] And besides — major arguments on the table — now in the Yupi Worlds of the People’s Party is more dangerous to go to a hospital and have pediatric emergencies, if you have a small one, than to go to a hospital and there are no pediatric emergencies. That's like saying it's safer, not to take a flu, to sleep outdoors three degrees below zero than to sleep in a house with heating. It's just that they're arguments that swirling the ridiculous, gentlemen of the People's Party. I don't know if anyone can defend that for a little boy who's in Malzalvos, who's in Pradocabalos, who's in Oimbra, who's in Cualedro -- just as they're much closer to the city -- may be less dangerous than their parents, at best, they decide that they can't go to Ourense because they're a few tenths of fever that has pediatric emergencies nearby. And also by swirling the absurd we have the counselor yesterday telling us that "to see, that is not an infarction, that is a birth." First, that's what you're saying in a province where there's no hemodynamics twenty-four hours, where if anyone has a heart attack at 4:00 in the morning ends up in Vigo... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u362	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u363	...ends in Vigo, which is where you want us to end up. Of course, we're not mistaken, we know what the reality is, because we've been reporting fifteen days ago in this Parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u364	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u365	...the reality is that you've done a work policy that nowadays makes there a lack of pediatricians who explain what this decision is going to be, because they haven't been able to attract pediatricians. And I end up with a single reflection: if it's so dangerous to have this service in Verín...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u366	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u367	...why did they pull out pediatrics squares to try to cover them? Why? Stop lying...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u368	Your time is up. You've got another shift later. Thank you very much. Mr Torrido Quintela has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u369	Thank you, President. There's an orderly and systematic planning for cuts and service reductions in comarcal hospitals. Undisputable. We defended in our group that there was a concentration covered with services, we argued that structural changes and regulations were made for this. When the health law reform was passed, which didn't affect Verín in this case, but others who are losing their services, we said and we kept clearly that this reform was because of something they don't say because they're ashamed; they don't say it, but they do it because of it. They do it for these things, to make these kinds of decisions. We constantly point out the loss of services from the comarcal hospitals. Two weeks ago here -- three weeks ago I asked the BNG -- the socialists betrayed an initiative on Verín. I read literally: "The new reorganization makes it possible to guarantee services in Verín." Two weeks ago. Three days later the parlor was lost. It's not that you cut, it looks like you enjoy making people suffer. It's just sad! Because they come here saying they're guaranteeing a service and they knew, while they were saying it, that they had the machete in their hand to cut off a service. [[Applause]] They knew it and told it with all the world's entirety. And besides, to stick to a decision, they're doing something sad. First, a manager who is trying to -- try, because he can't -- because he can't -- hide citizens and professionals in sad ways. They have a counselor and a president trying to discredit professionals who had no quality, that there was no decency and that there was no expertise — where there is no expertise is in the government of the Union; there is certainly no expertise. [[Applause]] They're playing with the headlines! When we only criticized the opposition, it was because we were alarmists. You tell us: are they alarmists and are they shooting at the public health professionals, what do they tell us, their mayors, who manifested themselves the other day in Verín? Are they alarmists and are they manifesting and against public health also their mayors? Excuse me, are they alarmists and are they against the professionals, are they trying to despise public health to their colleagues in Ourense who have just voted against and ask for the reinstatement of this service? Are they also alarmists? Because they're alarmists anyway! Or is it now, as the PP says, there's no alarm about this and now it's a political position? You have to have a face to defend this story! They're also defending a policy of fear. Mrs. Presas explained here perfectly: the policy of fear is that it's not safe. You mean to tell me that the last baby was born with no security? Is that the problem? There was no security for that mother and that boy? Wasn't there? Because if that's the problem, then we have another problem. We defend that yes. Why? Because we believe in those professionals. By the way, you're defending that there are some professionals who argue that this service should be withdrawn. All right; and there are many others who say no. You know what that means? That technical positions are often not unanimous and objective truths. And there are political positions: because it's a political decision to cut down services in comarcal hospitals and now in Verín, too. It's a political decision. And by the way — that when they were alarming here, they said "no" openly — after Verín, the rest of the comarcas will go. And if any Member or Member, or a mayor or mayor, a conciliator or a conciliator of the People's Party believes not to look at it. He's gonna play after he defends something he doesn't believe in, because he thinks he's just gonna touch the other and it's not true. If the criterion is what they say it is — which is not — they should all be removed. But they don't. Why? Because they're doing, even, pilot experience to see how people behave; but people already know how they behaved -- they went out the street -- their mayors too, their conceleras too, their voters and their voters too, their provincial group in the MP as well. You're losing the opportunity to demonstrate, not that there's a consensus outside the Council, but that there's a consensus in the People's Party to tell the advisor that he's going, that he's turning the service around, that he's putting it back in Verín, and that please stop trying to hide people who are against his decisions; because there are many professionals and many citizens who don't understand it. And as it's impossible to understand when they're using criteria again and again, another is obviously a political, voluntary decision. They're facing professionals, they're making there are professionals from a hospital and another facing as if it were a separate marriage and they want to fight for a son or a daughter. They're facing professionals to defend themselves from a decision that was absolutely erratic...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u370	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u371	...and that it always has against everyone but the Council. Now it's against enough of the People's Party. Please revert this decision.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u372	Thank you very much. Mr Rodríguez Estévez has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u373	Thank you, President. The health district of Verín, with the comarcal hospital of Verín as reference, encompasses the region of Verín — twenty-five thousand inhabitants last year — and part of Viana — five thousand inhabitants. More than thirty-one thousand people. In recent years this hospital has been and is being cut into their attention. We're talking about pediatrics, and we're looking at it these days: the guards are no longer guaranteed for twenty-four hours, with dates coming from health care directly to Ourense. Verín is an hour away from Ourense, but towns of the Mosque, villages of Vilarino de Conxo, towns of Viana do Bolo or high Sanabria, which are being cared for there, may be two hours or more from Ourense. There were modifications to dating in cardiology. It is tremendous for your users that this service ends and is derived from Ourense. As for the anesthesiologists, three out of four squares: one downhill is not covered. Since 1 September 2019, the hospital in Verín has no dermatology service. It is common in Sergas to reduce services in the most impoverished areas of the country, so that it deepens its discrimination. As far as the kitchen service — as Mrs Noa Presas also requests in her non-law proposal — is outsourced, the same company being a concessionaire for the kitchen and the cafeteria, so they share personal. But you did, on September 11th, at a meeting of the EOXI manager in Ourense with staff: "The board announced the creation of new squares in the hospital, including that of the midwife." Two months later they close the parlor; that's why the paper holds everything they put on it. And yesterday — if you said in a slogan that you let the counsellor loose — we asked for the resignation of the counsellor already a week ago on the subject of the closure of the parish priest and the pediatrician service. But that too could be, because you pulled out a slogan that could go against the fifteen or twenty thousand people who were advancing on a march, manifesting themselves — agent of yours too — in favor of the non-suppression of these services. Well, the counsellor comes out with a slogan that says, "A birth is not an infarction." But what counsellor with two fingers in front, after the outrage in the neighborhoods of the boundary, if you happen to say this? And I ask the Members and Members of the PP of Ourense who are in this House represented and represented: what do you think of this? What do you think of this after seeing the mayors and mayors of the People's Party expressing their support for the service? What do you think of the resolution of this motion that was tabled in the Parliamentary Parliament itself — to ask the Councillors to provide, maintain and improve services that are being provided at the Verín County Hospital to ensure the care quality of the neighborhood in the eastern part of the country, in particular the parish service, and to transfer these agreements to the Presidency of the Council of Galicia, the Councillors of Health, the direction of Sergas, the CHOU administration, medical and health professionals? What do you think? This was the motion that yesterday approved the People's Party, Ourensan Democracy and Citizens. I do not know whether the People's Party, whether the Members and Members of this House of the People's Party agree or not with this motion. I'd like to know. Look, you cease the policy of dismantlement of the comarcal hospitals. Because it's said here, and that's a reality: after Vienna goes the ship of Valdeorras -- that's it, the dermatologist pulled it out at the same time. This is an experiment, as it was said here very well. The next one's gonna be Monforte, then he's going to the Navy and then he's going to Salnès. Meet with the hospital community of Verín and listen to it, offering quality service as it has so far been lending in the parish of Verín. And keep the kitchen staff in this service. We only want, from here, first, to say that we are going to support — as we do not — this proposal not of law. And we also want to take the opportunity to take action and support both the staff and the neighbors of Verín who are now locked up in the hospital, and all the citizenship in general that attends or uses that hospital. Because they are the ones who are right now facing so that a service that is vital, as can be the neighborhood of Verin, does not close and that their women do not have to give birth in a taxi or a private car. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u374	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. Mrs Solla Fernández has the floor by the Joint Parliamentary Group on the Left.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u375	Thank you, President. We will support, as it cannot be otherwise, this non-law proposition; and in fact tomorrow we will also call upon the Health Counsellor, who should already be here appearing right before the severity of the closure of a service as is the delivery service in the hospital of Verín! And I have to remember that two years ago we were here discussing the modification of the Health Act and that cut and that reduction of areas. And what he was moving from the People's Party, and what he came to say through some voice in the debate in this House, was that he was going to serve to improve quality, to shield the assistance in the comarcas hospitals and even to bring the health service to citizenship. It's indecent! Because at that time we said that what I was going to serve was to continue emptying of contents the comarcas hospitals. The biggest one has been denied, but now we've closed down our services and, of course, reference has been made here to other services that have problems. He's not the only one, and not just dermatology. We have already warned before the summer that surgical interventions, private hospitals and ourenses were being transferred because there were not enough anesthetists. We also warned, more than a year ago, that three extensions in the retirement of a pediatrician would mean the abolition of this labor service if Junta didn't replace it. We asked in committee what they were going to do and they gave no answer. That's right, they refused to abolish the services, and today we have this question on the table. In fact, the People's Party does not believe in rural areas, and I, if I were a member of the People's Party of a rural council, would be deeply ashamed in this House today. With what face can a Member go, a member of the People's Party to their neighborhoods after what just happened?Oh, my God! It's quite obvious that the following are the rest of the comarcal hospitals; because you never believed in the relocation of services, in bringing the services closer to citizenship. That's why they don't provide services to the comarcas hospitals, so primary care in rural areas, and mainly in Ourense province, is getting worse and we've moved here on some occasion to a small amount — less than ten primary care midwives, in a whole province. How? How the hell do you want people to encourage themselves to have children? What is the point of passing Members and Members of this House for months and weeks, filling our mouths with demography and this Demography Act? If we empty our services or rural, if we treat rural people as citizens and as second-rate citizens and we withdraw their services — take them back to Galicia, of course — what good is it for? You don't care what debate we have! There's a very serious problem and it's called a lack of equity in the system, and here it is explained. Probably the worst thing the health counsel could have done was what he did, which is to justify his cowardly decision by attacking health professionals, the same ones that, as the rapporteur said, have to suffer the precariousness of work, and the ones and the ones that are above laughing. How won't you be angry? Of course, I follow the support given to those people who are locked up there. It's the second time this year that you have to close to defend your hospital, which is the right of a whole territory! This is the situation! That's how they pay their services, moving that they have no experience, that they lose their expertise, that they're a danger. That's how health professionals are treated! How won't you be angry? And instead of putting your hands to your head, moving things that I find absolutely insulting, as the counselor said when he compared himself to an infarction — here reference was made to that in all interventions—; instead... because, obviously, the professionals, the midwives, have an absolutely brilliant expertise, they've been working for years in complicated conditions... and of course when there's a predicted birth that has complications! It was always done, it will always be done; there was never a problem of quality of care. Normal delivery can be provided in a comarcal hospital. Moving here now something that is not supported by scientific evidence to justify a political decision, only supported by economic and organizational criteria, I think it's cowardly. And to shift responsibility to professionals, I think it's beyond what must be the responsibility of the highest responsibility for the health of all the Greeks and all the Greeks. Fortunately, in this and also in the elimination of that kitchen — because they could actually take advantage of it to transfer it to a 100 per cent public and direct service right now — they have the possibility to rectify it. And rectifier is wise. If tomorrow the health advisor comes here and says...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u376	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u377	...—now finished—that he puts pediatrics back in the hospital, that he opens the hospital's parlor again, we will recognize and assume that it does well because, of course, rectification is wise; otherwise, in the meantime...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u378	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u379	...you're the only thing that they're doing is looking at injustice and treating rural people as if they were second-born citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u380	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. The People's Parliamentary Group has the floor Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u381	Thank you, President. Good night, ladies. Mr. Torrado, of course, we don't enjoy this bench making people suffer. It's one more of the insults we've heard repeatedly. Look, they're reading hepatitis C's car and they're apologizing for lies, for falsehoods, for insults, for the president, for the advisor and for this whole group. [[Applause]] They read the car and apologize. Of course, Mrs. Solla, Verín wasn't a health area; which quite dismantled that speech you said, right? And referring also to Mr. Torrado, I want to tell you that in an earlier speech he told you that the People's Party would change their mind... you have the champion of change of mind, huh? The hemerotheque and the library of Mr. Pedro Sánchez do not resist that statement. They're demolition! Demolifiers, fifteen days apart. Let's talk about Verín. We are debating in the Committee on Health on Poison. In fact, two interim paediatric courts were called and no aspiring to cover them. A place of dermatology has been called and the call of a trauma plaza is under way. Unfortunately, it is very easy not to cover any of them because of the current situation of professional deficits, of which we have already said that it was not a Greek problem, but a national and, indeed, European problem. We knew you guys were coming to talk about the parlor. Look, ladies and gentlemen, mothers, in the media, said — I have two examples — "To have to give birth to Ourense from Verín increases the danger of my pregnancy. I have a high-risk pregnancy; if, unfortunately, I have a problem, I can have a serious disappointment." An example. Second example: "I'm glad to be in the hospital, in my hospital. I think it's fatal that this parlor shuts down in a few days. It's a shame for the county." Unfortunately, this second case ended with the newborn's entry into Ourense hospital for a complication that so advised. Fortunately, it seems that there are no consequences of gravity. I understand as a person and I understand as a family doctor the complaints of these women. They're feelings, they're emotions... and they defend their kiss. I understand. How am I not going to understand? But professionally qualified opinions are just in the opposite direction...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u382	Silence! So far, the speeches of all spokesmen have been carefully listened to. I hope it's the same in this one too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u383	Thank you, President. Take security from proximity or comfort. I'll read textually expert statements. Doctor Doval, head of the gynaecology service — of course, not suspected of being the People's Party, because I don't know him, and he said in an article that he was a militant from Left Unity and candidate from the Nationalist Block Galego— he said, "Without specialized equipment, a failure in childbirth can leave a child with life sequels. It's a technical and non-political decision; it's not an economic problem. The closure of the neighborhood of Verín is to care for the newborn child with guarantees. The control of pregnancy and postpartum was and will continue to be in Verín. The gynaecologists' squares follow the three of them, and the two of them. I don't know where the savings are. I understand there's a technical information problem to counter emotional issues. If there's a delivery outside the hospital, there's a lot of factors not only in the distance." Dr. Fernández Cebrián, Chief of Pediatric Service: "With fewer cases it is easy that there may be risks. From a neonatal point of view, it's always better to move, in a situation where there's going to be a commitment, the baby in the best incubator, which is the maternal uterus. Risks under 600 births are increased. That is the fundamental reason, a reason for criteria of care quality and safety of the patient, which in that case is the newborn." Mrs. Presas, in Verín, there have been no pediatricians in the staff category since 2006 - I won't remember who ruled in 2006 - There has never been pediatric hospitalization either, so the attention of newborns has always been told with a pediatrician's localized guard, who was only for that function. So it's impossible for pediatric emergencies to close, as if they're affirming in a phony way, or that there's waiting lists in pediatrics. The president of the Medical College of Ourense, Dr. José Luis Jiménez - not suspected of belonging to the People's Party - says textually: "I see it correctly, if we meet the technical criteria of the professionals of pediatrics and xynecology, who are the ones who best know the reality of the situation. Maintaining a gynaecologist and a paediatrician for a delivery every four days is, at least, questionable. But besides, right now, there are not enough specialists in both areas and non-efficiency brings side effects. Ladies and gentlemen, 44 doctors from Ourense hospital - 21 gynecologists and 23 pediatricians - have signed a document in which they refer to criteria of healthcare quality and also to the recommendations of major scientific societies. It's a report from the Ministry of 2009 that talks about the 600 births. The pediatric society speaks of a minimum of 300 births.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u384	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u385	Finished, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, would you be able to maintain this service after listening to the experts' opinion? Would they commit that irresponsibility? What would we hear from you about the president of the board or about the health adviser if there were any problems following the warnings of the heads of service and expert recommendations?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u386	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u387	Finished, President. This parliamentary group and the Government that supports it will always dominate the safety of mothers and children over any other circumstance of manipulation or union or political pressure, come from where it comes from. Otherwise it would be really irresponsible and we're not going to support it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u388	Thank you very much. Your time is up. Thank you very much. For the author group of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Presas Berganginos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u389	Mr. Centeno, they're not feelings, they're rights; women's rights in this country. [[Applause]] And we know that when the cutbacks come back, it's our first right to put on the picket, but we're not going to allow it. And look, it's just that you're discrediting yourself, because the excuse is the number of births, and at the same time you're defending that you're trying to attract pediatricians to this hospital. So, stop lying, tell the truth, they say their negligent labour policy first did not plan either from the state with Mr. Rajoy or in ten years with Mr. Feijóo in Galicia's board the generational relief of pediatricians. Say that, and say after the pediatricians escape Ourense from the disorganization of this agency. They have judgments from the High Court of Justice -- I've called him one before, I'm calling him another now -- and for twice that he went to Galicia's board, they had to say that it's impossible to go from Ourense to Valdeorras in 20 minutes. [[Applause]] They have a problem with voting because Ourense pediatricians and pediatricians don't want to rotate, as they were doing and organizing you. Look for other incentives for an attractive career and for attracting professionals to this hospital, but don't lie to us saying it's safer not to have pediatricians than to have them, because that's to make us look stupid. And they don't lie either with the issue of the number of births, because I'm not going to go to any other data from comarcas hospitals anymore, but it's just that, look, why aren't 109 births safe, for example, in 2017? Why didn't you take this action in 2017? Instead, in 2015, 130; in 2013, 111. Look, it's not a question of number, it's a question of the work organization of the Board of Galicia and the organization of Sergas. And look, there are experts, actually, who say one thing and there are many other experts and professionals who say another. Today, he has two interviews in the media, the gynecology officer at the Verín Hospital, which says that the roadmap is really trying to close the hospital, and the same in charge of the Valdeorras Hospital, which he says is that you're missing this because they're talking about technical issues without putting data on the table. You talked about that 2009 report, but I have the next part that talks about distances. And, of course, the counsellor, as he doesn't have to give birth, dares say that, well, it's not like an infarction, that since you start giving birth you have time left to go to Ourense, to go shopping, to go to the hospital and to do other things. That's indecent, that dares say because he won't give birth. And that's macho too, of course, yes, that's why also Greek feminism is going out on the streets tomorrow. In fact, that's why there are more than ten calls from Greek feminism tomorrow, because it's also machoism, of course. [[Applause]] The last cause is that disability I told them. And what's the big deal that sells us is that this is the legislation of rural life and that this is to encourage rural life, because we have statements of that very...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u390	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u391	...of the disabled to direct the health area of Ourense, which says: "Choose services in rural is positive discrimination". Well, look, don't discriminate against us, please, don't discriminate against us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u392	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u393	Correct that, correct that decision. Because today the people are asking for it and, as I said here and as I reminded you in another intervention, that's what they're asking for their own concierge and concierge.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u394	Does the PSOE amendment accept it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u395	Yes, we accept the amendment of the Socialist Party and we thank the other groups...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u396	Thank you very much. Your time is up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-03-DSPG140.u397	Thank you very much. We'll hold the full till tomorrow at ten in the morning. Thank you very much and good night.
