ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u1	The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. They justified the absence of Fr. Pedro Puy and Mr. Antonio Mouriño. As we have already commented, there was a change in the agenda. Let's start with the first point, which in this case is motions. G.P. motion. of In Marea, at the initiative of Mr David Rodríguez Estévez, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece in the field of labour, in relation to the prevention and extinction of forest fires
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u2	No amendments were tabled to this motion. To formulate the motion, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u3	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, very early. Good afternoon, too, Counselor. Thank you for being here. Public policies carried out in rural areas over the past few years have proved insufficient for the prevention and extinction of fires, beginning first by the abandonment of the environment itself, by the lack of investment in this, the closure of many public services, reforestation by short-cycle alloctone species, abandonment, lack of care, as well as a policy based on extinction and not prevention. There is only a productive speech in the Government, in relation to the mountain, which is negative in social terms, which is also negative in environmental terms, but also insufficient and precarious in economic terms. That's why we need to change our policies for the protection of our territory, our policies for the protection of our environment, prevention and extinction of fires, moving towards a policy for the protection and conservation of the Greek mountain as a fundamental part of our social being and as a fundamental part of our economic being. By doing a detailed analysis of the incendiary evolution and the effectiveness of the Greek forest fire prevention and extinction device, using the data from the Ministry of the Environment, we come to the following conclusion: the fire activity in Galicia is the highest in the entire national territory, whose average data are almost 1,000 fires a year until 2005, with an average fire surface of nearly three hectares, data showing the highest effectiveness of the public device, which up to these dates was almost 70% of the global device. From the year 2005, during the following sex year, there is a significant decrease in fire activity, reducing the number of total fires — we passed from about 10,000 fires a year to less than 5,000 fires a year on average — but, curiously, the fire-burning surface is increased in this period, from three acres to almost six and a half hectares. From 2011 until 2015 the activity would be further reduced, but curiously, the surface varies between 4.7 and 5.2 hectares/light, with quite favorable weather data, removing us again from the rates of effectiveness of the worst burning season in Galicia. This requires a deep analysis of the matter, in which we perceive four main causes. First of all, the weight of the public service defense against forest fires on the total device, which, in the worst years of fires in our country, stowed 82% of the total device, up to today, where we see that among the helicopter brigades, many brigades of the municipalities that are privatized, private companies that operate also on the device, UME, operation Centinela, etc., we're at 40%. So, we understand that the more we atomize this device, the worse its effectiveness, so, as an alternative, from En Marea we consider the total return of the public defence service against forest fires to Galician Union. During 2016, according to data from the Ministry of the Environment, we found some positive data: the significant reduction in the number of fires, 2,400. Even so, we've observed two curious things. First, the total burnt surface, which is 21,000 hectares, means an area burned by fire of 8 hectares, which is the highest data in the last twenty-eight years. This loss of device effectiveness seems to be worrying to us. At the same time, of the twenty-two large forest fires that took place in Spain in 2016, eight took place in Galicia, with 7% of the state's surface. So something serious is happening in the territory when a fire typology more frequently in other parts of the Spanish state begins to happen very often in our country. The dismantling of the public service led to a significant reduction in surveillance capacity, by closing about 50% of the fixed surveillance tapes that we had scattered through our mountains, often leaving 085 exclusively as the only element of information on forest fires for the device. We must also, and so we ask this non-law proposition, amend Decree 37/2006, from the recruitment list, deleting the script, so that workers and workers of four months to last year, possibly five this year, can choose to fill vacancies and not vacancies. With regard to the possibility offered by the Administration, after the amendment of this decree, to be able to make replacements for workers and workers with less than half a day, i.e., made them discontinuate on an interim basis of four months last year, you would have to point out that the options are very pilgrimage and complex, since in order to be able to access them or them to a square of nine or twelve months they necessarily have to give up the three-month square, and then have to be waiting for the aforementioned nine or twelve-month square to be called temporarily. This in the hypothetical case that this square is ever filled; that is, it would have to have a high score or it would not be covered by an internal regime by a temporary adscription. In the other three-month waivers, one year of expulsion of the recruitment lists is penalized, and the latter will be returned after the previous application and payment of the corresponding fees. On the other hand, the Rural Middle Council simply breaks the recruitment lists. It's taking a long time to cover the squares that are left free because of casualties, disability, temporary casualties, illness, maternity leave, etc., or even uncovered or decided to convert them or amortize them. In the months of winter and spring, this year all the geography of Greece, in some places with more virulence and in others with less, suffered the flames of the fires. It is true that the weather conditions or high temperatures did not help; there was little precipitation, there was Northeast wind, the dry state of the biomass and the soil was there, which determined that these circumstances had occurred and had caused the ignition and spread of the fires with the utmost ease. All these factors show the existence of a clear factor of destabilization of fires, of forest fires, and this unfortunately will become more and more frequent. Now not only in the summer, but also in other times, where, because of the issues of weather and the climate change that is suffering from the planet, there are now avalanches of forest fires that cause severe and enormous ecological, economic and social losses. In Marea, we believe that counseling is disenfranchising human capital that could be employed in the necessary forest mass prevention and protection tasks, apart from extinction, based on the increase and diversification of its functions by its contrasting experience and its contrasting formation, by its effectiveness. As for public service brigades, which are theoretically composed of seven forest firefighters, in practice, due to vacancies not covered by counseling, casualties, permits and the librarian system, it is very common to arrive at fires where brigades, perhaps, have two or three troops. All of this causes a great deal of work to be concentrated on staff and spent hours on their work days, focusing on the safety of workers themselves. That's why In Marea we present this motion, where we ask that that Decree 37/2006 of 2 March be amended, so that the appointment of interim staff is regulated for the transitional performance of squares reserved for officials and for the personal recruitment of employees of the Galician Council, so that workers and workers of the Seaga public enterprise can compete on equal terms, valuing their professional experience. We call for the duration of the reinforcement staff contract for the summer campaign of the prevention and defence service to increase over the current four months and be equated with staff workers and staff workers, that is, by expanding their contractual relationship to a total of nine months. The creation of thirty squares in the relationship of rural and environmental workplaces, in the category of forest and environmental agents, to strengthen forest research brigades. This was something that President Feijóo promised here after the 2017 fire strike, it was something that already the president, in the Autonomy State Debate, announced that it was done, and today nothing is known of this subject. And finally, to properly fund the municipalities so that forest fire brigades have decent wage conditions, as well as proper training. And we say this because, if they're offering the same job, or either they're extinguishing them and that these personnel become part of the public service, or if they're not, they're doing the same job as the public service firemen, who cover exactly the same thing. For my part, for now, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u4	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon. In telling me about the fires, that we don't vote in favour, there was talk... I'm saying we don't vote in favour because we're going to tell you again who touches the People's Party. I would also like to say in this House that in 2006 there was a quite serious fire strike and the People's Group did not even participate in the commission, but that has nothing to do with it. In the group of experts, we asked again whether they were paying attention to them or what they were for, because you actually started restructuring the fire service before they issued any conclusions. We're at the door of a new campaign and the device remains fragmented. They don't cover down, and this is already a vice that comes very back because it's been around ten years that don't cover down. Within the recommendations, we insisted, but much, that it had to be a public service, it had to be unique, it had to be trained and equipped and also stable economically, that is, wage and time. The truth, it's still fragmented, they're making intentions. We welcome, however, that baremation responds to the same work as baremation, that is to say, that it is — it seems uniform, but the decree is missing, and it seems that the decree does not come out because the RPT came wrong, because it seems to have come for a whole year and it turns out that... there are interpretations about this and could be called improvisation. We agree, Mr. Estévez, that the county brigades should disappear, but while they don't disappear, what can't be that they're as they are. I mean, there are municipalities where we pay them enough to say, and therefore those who compete with those brigades are much more prepared people, and there are municipalities where they pay bad and the people who compete, really, don't pay much. You play it all to extinction, and we will continue to insist — from the Nationalist Block we are very stubborn — that there is a need for ordination, there is a need for discontinuity, there is a need for the rural environment to be occupied by people to manage, and there is a need for diversity in the forest masses. You keep playing it all for extinction and luck. If luck comes, because we have a quiet year, and if luck doesn't come, because we have disasters, as it has been now, recently, or as it happened in 2017. We feel that it is really a matter of priority and urgent — say what experts say — that forest research brigades are provided with squares. It's necessary for qualified personnel to be able to discern and investigate what the fires that happen are due to; especially when we have lots of fires again. And climate change is there, and unfortunately it will give us a lot to investigate. I would like to remind you, Counsellor, that the other day, in Commission 7th, you voted against a management that the Block asked for. The Block asks them to do something and to manage on the Nature Network and the natural park up there, on the Lugo Mountain, where the early snow caused damage and where it left the Nature Network full of dry wood and oaks and other truncated and crushed species that are a plant protection hazard and a danger to the fire. Above all, they have the opportunity to do something about forestry and that the people who inhabit that area, who often suffer from the conditions of the Natura Network, in a way it is transmitted to them that the Greek society considers it a treasure and that those people must also participate in that treasure, and it is time for those people to help and help manage that mass that is cut off. Of course we will support the GNP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u6	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. Good afternoon, too, Counselor. I want to begin my speech, as if we were discussing initiatives on forest fires, highlighting and praising, on behalf of the Socialist Group, the involvement, addiction and commitment of all workers who make up the forest fire fighting device. The last shows of this involvement we have recently experienced, in the fire strike of this first quarter of 2019, and in particular in the Dodro-Rianxo fire, in which more than a thousand hectares were burned. In this singular fire, with multiple characteristics, the workers and the workers of the device gave the best of themselves in the work of extinguishing the fire and thus protecting the neighborhood and protecting our territory as well. Go to them and to them our gratitude and also our gratitude. Ladies and gentlemen, in the first three months of 2019 — January, February and March, full winter — Galicia was the scene of intense incendiary activity, spread along and wide throughout our territory. It doesn't seem like winter 2019 or autumn 2017 are the usual times for forest fires, but they're already here between us, without distinguishing statistics or territories. Fires no longer understand seasons, they're unpredictable; and I sleep in their temporal appearance, but also sound in their geographic appearance. And they are beginning, unfortunately, to be predictable in their attitude and behavior. These fires stand out for their virulence, intensity and destructive capacity. Experts have been alerting for a long time that these types of fires, aggressive and unseasonalized, are already in Galicia to stay, and cause panic, fear, misfortune, eviction of schools, health centers, traffic cuts on roads and highways and generalized impotence. In addition, to this situation of itself already worrying about the behavior of the new fires, we have to add other warnings already announced by experts. For example, in the year 2050, in the province of Ourense, it will rain half of what is raining at present; and setting as a new example — worth redundancy — my province, Ourense is walking towards a future with only two seasons: winter and summer. The new fires, the more vigorous, the more destructive, the more destabilized, are already with us to stay, as many experts warn. They don't understand seasons of action, they're unpredictable when they arrive and where they decide to act, and this is a physical risk that we must recognize and act accordingly. There are actions that we certainly cannot deal with individually, such as meteorological changes or climate change, which is only possible to deal with jointly. But there are other actions that we can do, and resorting to the intent method is not enough; rather, it's mostly not efficient. If it's efficient to do field work in the right time and with the necessary intensity to get the mountains ready when the maximum risks come. How efficient and indispensable is a permanent assessment of fire policy, which must begin with a rigorous analysis of errors and correctness in each of the fires, and which is not being done. In the hands of the Government are the devices for prevention and extinction, and our group will support this initiative of the En Marea Parliamentary Group because it goes in the line of greater appropriations and, above all, of greater professionalism on these devices, taking into account the near future that will provoke the new fires. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u8	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Fernández. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Blanco Paradelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u9	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Mr. Fernández, I'd like to start with the same thing you did. But, look, the counsellor in the interpellation meant that we had a magnificent service of extinction and prevention in the fight against forest fires, and he also wanted to acknowledge and sincerely thank him for his work, and he was accused of coming here to do the ball for him. I also really want to join your recognition and start with that. This initiative shows that in Marea they seem to be very concerned about the fires that occur in Galicia, and I wanted to tell them three fundamental issues. First, in the fire strike that took place in October 2018, at a few hours from that beginning, while Galicia burned and burned it, its first and immediate response was to put on the shirts — not that they had already prepared — the banners — which they would have prepared as well — and start asking for resignations, while Galicia was concerned about that terrible wave of fires. A second question. I would also like to remind the Committee on Forest Fires, which some Members seem to have started reading it now. After we passed it and made reference to it, it seems now they're taking it into account. And I would like to recall a few questions, for example, that you voted against the En Marea Group in particular, among which I would like to highlight: they voted against the creation of the forest research teams; they voted against the establishment of the Administrative Register of Forest Fire Investigations; they voted against the implementation of a forest surveillance network that through surveillance cameras can also do this dissuasory activity; they voted against the decisive step forward in the use of new technologies, in the fight against fires, of course, in the use of drones, which will already be incorporated into the research squad in this recent campaign. So you have to retract. Of course we have to remind them that you voted against that committee, because for us it is very important, and we want to respect that work that has been done almost for a year, and the 123 recommendations. I also want to talk about another third issue: a fire strike last March in Dodro, Rianxo and some other points in Galicia. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, you don't know it either, but look, on the same day of the fire, on March 26, while some Members of En Marea visited the command center and were attended by the counsellor, providing them with full information and live transparency of what was happening, it turns out that that same day at the afternoon, at 18th zero six, In Marea recorded an interpellation. That was the concern I had in Marea for what was happening in Dodro County. And these things I think it's good that you know them in the House and that you know them as well as the Galician set. As the counsellor has already told them on the day of the inquiry — and I have to insist again on some issues that the adviser has said — firstly, the Board is processing a decree in which the need to value the experience of the workers serving in public companies like Seaga, for the purposes of their incorporation as temporary staff of the Board, and the forecast is that it will be approved this May. The goal? He also said it, to have staff with the highest possible qualifications to fight against the firecracker, with a public, unique and versatile device. Shall we hold them? They are the agreements between the unions and the Union within the framework of the Public Service Staff Commission in Greece. I mean, what do we do? Do we respect this channel of negotiation and dialogue with the unions or not? Therefore, there is no discrimination between candidates who wish to opt for these squares in the case of Seaga workers, because we will bar them from legally established for the incorporation of the board staff, accounting for their experience accredited in similar positions, in public enterprises or in other administrations, as in the case of councils. On the duration of the contracts, a proposal for enlargement was also transferred to the trade unions: from three months to six months, progressively, to 2020; that is, five months in 2019 and six months in 2020. What do we do? Do we respect trade with unions or not? On creating the RPT squares, Junta will create 558 new squares to integrate all employees into the service itself, and the employment relationship is in the hands of the unions. I mean, what do we do? Do we respect this dialogue process in relation to the unions or not? Actually, I think you either either don't talk to the unions, or they've already lost that fluid communication they suspected. Finally, on the fourth question, on the financing of the municipalities, I would like you to value what is done, especially when we discuss these issues. I remind you of the agreement on the protection of villages signed with the municipalities — Mr Rivas, is it extinction or is it prevention? — in which the Union is putting more than 28 million euros, and recently also the allowance signed between the Conseilaria do Medio Rural, the Fegamp and Seaga to strengthen and collaborate with the municipalities in the prevention and fight against fires, to which 177 municipalities have already joined, with a budget of 11.6 million in 2019. Mr. Rodríguez Estévez, I think he's still answerable, point by point, his interpellation. So we're going to vote against it. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u10	Thank you, Mr. Blanco Paradello. Author group of the motion, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u11	Thank you, President. Mr. Fernández was speaking of improvisation, and I think that's what we have now, more than anything. It turns out that fires spread more easily, that time increases, and spending on extinction increases, so the criterion of excluding staff from economic issues often falls by their own weight, in addition to countless economic and social losses. We have nothing but to look at what happened in 2017, when the three-month staff were sent home and if they called again, when five hundred Seaga workers were sent home and if they called again, or when the city halls were called, so that they would, please, extend the contract of their brigades. That's improvisation; he has no other name. Then, can you reduce that lack of forecasting and planning of the board in carrying out appropriate fire prevention and extinction policies? And do it? Because he's totally neglecting prevention tasks. We're at the greatest risk and the deal with the Fegamp from the protection strip we don't know when it's going to be done; says Mr. Blanco Paradelo that, possibly, in the month of May. We're at the greatest risk, the maximum risk was decided on April 1st; the Counsellor and the Director General of Mounts so announced. The case is that we're at the greatest risk and already had to be at least 100 percent operational. Who's going to make those protection strips? We don't know either. We, from En Marea, see that they're going to privatize the service, and I'm going to tell you why: because the People's Party, in the privatization of services that should be public, has to do business; if not, it's inexplicable. About the comarcas agricultural offices: the other day we have a non-law proposition where their resolution is: "Insemble the board to cover the posts of the comarcas agricultural offices, as marked by its own RPT", and vote against them; vote against an RPT that you do. Of course, then we see orders from Tragsatec and private companies to cover these squares, so that's where we see business; otherwise, it's impossible. Mr. Rivas of the Natura Network spoke of the urgent need to do this work on those trees. The other day Mrs Arias, in Commission 7a, said she had done all the work. Man, there's no more to see the affect that the trees have right now, that they're all thrown out, and the diseases that they're going to get into those trees. If the forest fire prevention and defense service were 100 percent operational, as we asked for in this non-law proposal, it could be doing that job quietly, but at last. You tell me about the demonstration: man, I showed you pictures here. While the mayor of Ourense criticized the opposition for being in a demonstration, freely, manifesting ourselves — as we can be, no one takes it off — I, the night before, had been extinguishing the fire in the Town Hall of Sil's Parade and, in addition, the mayor of Manzaneda was there, on his own initiative, until three in the morning — in another municipality — with a motorcycle, because he had meat and he could do it, because there was no means. And that you tell me that we only know how to take out the shirts... I don't know the mayor of Ourense where he was at the time he wrote that tweet; putting out the fire of course not. And then, against the dictates: yes, we voted against the fair ruling by an amendment from En Marea, which called for the reinforcement of the forest fire investigation brigade. We explicitly request this: we want to strengthen forest research brigades with environmental agents; we vote against because you have not accepted that amendment. Or the new technologies: we're not against the new technologies, I've already told you, but they have to be complementary to what we have right now, those surveillance tapes that have always existed, and nothing else. What can't come is drones replacing people's work. Why? Because they don't do it so effectively, and so we've already shown them on some occasion. I think they miss a very good opportunity to bet on a quality public service and go straight to privatization, which is where you want to get there. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u12	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. G.P. motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to access and planning of child education from 0 to 3 years
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u13	An amendment was tabled by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. [[G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mrs Montserrat Prado Cores, through her spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, presented to the Bureau the following amendment to this motion: Amendment.The text of the resolution should be replaced by the following:"The Parliament of Galicia urges the Government of Galicia:1.- To develop, equip, economically and implement a plan for, in the present legislation, to be able to offer the number of free public squares of children's schools covering fairly and ensuring equity, the demand existing throughout the territory of Galicia.2.- To consider the 0-3-year stage of childhood education, and comprehensive in the field of the relevant education council.3.- To fulfil in this educational framework the General Plan of Standardization of the Galeg language of 2004.]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u14	To formulate the motion has the floor to Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u15	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Yesterday, citizenship chose with its vote one of the most important policies to promote the reconciliation of families, increase the rate of female employment, reduce social inequalities and improve the opportunities of the most vulnerable children and children: promoting the universalization of education from 0 to 3 years. He did it mostly in Spain and here, too, in Galicia. [[Applause]] We have bet on it since we arrived at the Government of Spain; even in our own budgets we spent 300 million euros, some budgets that you voted against. And they didn't just vote; in the previous plenary session, during the appeal to the Social Policy Counsellor, he didn't make any kind of reference to this subject, nor a word on a subject that we consider to be fundamental. Now, three weeks later and with the support of citizenship in the polls, they will have to be positioned through this motion, which has a fundamental objective, which is that the Council of Galicia begins to work with the new Government — with the Government of Spain — to achieve this objective. For that, in addition to this necessary collaboration and complementing efforts, Junta has to put on the batteries and have to make the effort it hasn't done in the last ten years, expanding that network of children's schools and doing it in a planned and orderly manner in the territory, in collaboration with social agents and the municipalities, to eliminate that shameful waiting list. Another important issue is to lower these prices for families in the most socially, culturally and economically vulnerable contours. Despite having one of the lowest fertility rates in Spain, because of that gap — which we have always commented on — that exists between the wishes and realities of women in this country, which is only the consequence of precariousness, low wages, labour instability and also the impossibility of reconciling family life with work, it turns out that in Galicia, according to government data, there are only squares in public infant schools for two out of ten children; if we count the concerts, not even half, exactly to 38.5 percent. So much so that every year -- last year too -- on those provisional lists of one hundred seventy-two schools of Blue Chicken, there are more than four thousand minors left; with which, it is clear that an extension of this network of public squares is necessary; we have already told you, not of concerted squares, which is what you are used to doing since 2015. But that increase in the number of squares cannot be done as we have so far, in random terms, not even prior to the implementation of these infant schools in municipalities governed by the People's Party, once again practicing that political sectarianism that we have talked about and denounced so many times in this chamber, but based on the needs of each territory and in consensus with social agents and with the municipalities themselves. Because if we don't, we'll meet again with that great promise of children's schools into industrial polygons of Mr. Feijóo that turned into a new fiasco. And we say a new fiasco because, in the last two years, of the budget for these orders, it turns out that it didn't run more than 80 percent of the budget. As they couldn't be executed, what did they do? Add dialogue, consensus and planning efforts? No, it's been cut. Eight hundred thousand euros is what is available for small schools in industrial polygons for the year 2019, less than half as in the first budgets of this legislation. But first you have to set an example of policies that favor that necessary reconciliation between working life and family life is Galician Union itself; in fact, you should already be doing so. For us, one of the issues that we ask for on this initiative and which we also consider to be relevant is that children's schools should be set up around the self-government's work centres. Through this motion we also call for a decrease in the prices of these centres, ensuring the freeness of the families of the most vulnerable surroundings; not only the freeness of the square, but also the dining room service and those hours, even more than children sometimes have to pass. And we do this because what we want with this initiative is that at least it's free for those families with incomes of less than 15 thousand euros. I mean, today, a family of four members who earn the minimum wage, incorporating the rise made by the Socialist Government, would have to pay for a child's school, pay for the dining room and, of course, pay for those hours more; I would have to make it a family of four members and also a monomantal family. We also call on this initiative, in addition to favouring this conciliation which we have been demanding for so long, but especially with the aim of providing an important service to the families who are worse off, the food security. This is nothing new, it was done by the Socialist Government as we arrived at the Moncloa: to guarantee the right food — those dining services — for eleven thousand German children and children, because the Galician Union was not doing so and had to arrive at a socialist government to guarantee it. What we ask is that, during school holidays, if you cover the total demand for these existing squares in children's schools, which is something that is not being done. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday citizenship also chose, in the area of children's schools, between two very clear and very defined models: that of the three right-wing Machists of Andalusia, who, after arriving to the Government — as well as Feijóo — raised the price of public infant schools while eliminating taxes for the three hundred richest families of that autonomous community, or that of the Socialist Government of Spain, of protection to families, of protection to the most vulnerable minors and of universalization of schooling of children's education for children and children aged between 0 and 3 years. [[Applause]] The citizenry has made it clear and has chosen that... — on the day it was a long one, we are all being noticed, sorry — the party that governs is what aims to promote employment reconciliation and equality — they don't get angry, that it was a comment; we are all tired, it doesn't happen — to improve the opportunities of children who are around the most vulnerable and the most disadvantaged and, above all, to fight social inequality. [[Murmurs.]] Respect, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, today the decision of the majority of citizens, not only in Spain, but also in Galicia, voting in favour of this initiative. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u17	Good afternoon. In fact, in the BNG we have a very clear question, and is that childhood is the most important step in the socialization of a person, in this case, still a child and a child. It's when the personality begins to form, when the first friends and friends are made, and when the family circle is broken and socialization begins. And the school, at the childhood stage, has a fundamental role to play in setting its own language. Of course, in the BNG we are concerned about what the model is for the children's schools of the People's Party: it's a model where, sometimes, the speech speaks of it as having to be an educational and conciliation element, but then, in practice, it's going exclusively to a model of conciliation, where the educational part is continually parked; it's also a clearly privatising model, a model where the concert, the cheques and the bonds are increasingly extended, but a public network of children's schools is not being created. So we know that we're in a recentralizing rush, where it seems that everything has to go through Madrid now; but for now, that lack of self-government we have in Galicia, of course, on the part of BNG, we're not prepared to be even less. That is why we tabled this amendment to the Socialist Party's initiative: on the one hand, the only competition the Spanish State should have is to have sufficient resources in these budget transfers, and then it is up to the Galician Council to put in place plans for child education, without having to go through Madrid. And then we're still defending -- and we're not going to stop doing it -- that this step from 0 to 3 has to be included in the educational stage of what I was talking about: the conception of childhood comes from the idea that they're not less incapable of those who only have to be careful, but it's a fundamental stage in the educational field and a very important stage in the empowerment of children and children; beyond the attention of children, the model of education has to look for that part of education. Your order is not to exercise the role of caregivers, but to undertake a genuine pedagogical task of great importance. That is why we are calling for this step from 0 to 3 to be included in the children's stage, integrated into the area of the competent education council, and for the Galician Parliament to urge the Greek Government to develop, equip and implement a plan for, in this legislation, to be able to offer the number of free public squares of children's schools that cover in a fair way, and ensuring equity, the demand that exists throughout the Greek territory. Because it is clear that, of course, resources are needed, but of course it is a matter of priorities. And it's evidence that the People's Party in the German Government has no priority to create a public network or to meet the essentially educational needs of these children and children, and that all the plans of those who have been talking about on very few occasions go from role to reality, at least not with budget allocation. So, we're at the door of May 17 and at BNG we also have all the alarms on about which is the situation of the Greek in our country. That's why we demand that the General Plan of Linguistic Standardization of the English language be fulfilled in this stage, because we have found that Galicia is the only part of the Spanish State where the number of speakers in its own language falls; we have found that, according to data from the Royal Academy itself, since 2010 the Greek has retreated into school to indexes of the 1990s and has seen the presence in child education of cities reduced by 90 percent. And we have to add to this that we're aged 5 to 14 years ago 22.7 percent of children who say they can't speak in English. With this, it's obvious that we have to start with childhood education from 0 to 3 with the general plan for linguistic normalization, which is to offer an educational offer in Welsh...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u18	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u19	...in pre-school from 0 to 3 years and establish the minimums to be achieved. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u21	Well, in this motion on the universalization of teaching from 0 to 3 years, with which we agree and, of course, from which we will vote in favour, today we are obliged, firstly, to bless the Socialist Party with yesterday's results, particularly in our country, and, above all, to make vows to translate into a government which is committed to left-wing policies as proposed by this motion, the universalization of teaching from 0 to 3, and — as we said yesterday — into a progressive government from the first day; and, of course, to commit itself to our country. It must also be pointed out, in this regard of yesterday, that fascism was defeated by nationalism in the stateless nations. We must also point out the pity that we do not have representation of our own political forces in Congress. And, of course, it's also necessary to be blessed as far as the United We can and BNG play for the results. And I didn't want to stop commenting on the results of the PP, knowing that, of course, today, I'm touched by the most absolute humility, but we've commented that the electoral ground of the People's Party was crumbling under my feet and yesterday it became evident. And I mean, exclusively personal, that yesterday began at the end of the Feijó era in our country and that we are going to defeat them -- this parliamentary arch -- each one from where we're touched, but we're going to defeat them in 2020. [[Applause]] We're going to defeat them to make progressive policies, like implanting a public school network of children from 0 to 3 years. In a country with a demographic winter, it's not to be welcomed that we have a waiting list every year in children's schools of nearly 4,000 children. That's why it's so urgent to end your government, first, to establish that this educational stage is really an educational stage from 0 to 3 years in which the mind conforms. It's a fundamental educational stage. First of all, it guarantees posterior equality, because it is shown in studies that those who receive childhood education from 0 to 3 have a lower school failure, and this can contribute to a lower inequality between social classes. It is also a key element in the fight against poverty in terms of conciliation, because it promotes the reintegration of parents and parents into the labour market. But it is, as I said, a stage in which this emotional security is built, and it needs to be provided with fundamental educational content. That is why we defend, as the rest of the opposition groups, the inclusion in the competent council of education. It's a basic service, therefore, we must stop your privatization. The child education network is absolutely dependent on private companies, to such an extent that the extension of the public network to where there are private enterprises or not, and there we have the Council bonus as an element that favors the conclusion of education, also in the early stages. There's also the problems of the nesting houses: I'm a service that can work very well, and we have very good examples. But what's going on? You can't get people who are caring for the nested houses, after all, to become millionaires. In the end it is a precarious service that rests, as always, on women's shoulders, because those who are taking nest houses are girls, essentially; young women. It is also the failure of the policy of extension of children's schools in industrial polygons: Mr. President promised in the first year of legislation that seven infant schools would be launched in industrial polygons. Seven of us take, in the legislate, three. It is, of course, because of a lack of consensus and a plan to agree with social agents, and also because of a lack of public child education wager. Fourthly, the rise in prices: not only are we talking about rising prices in children's schools; the prices of basic goods such as energy or how food is rising and wages are stagnating. Children's school also becomes a further obstacle to that which is to arrive at the end of the month. And finally, teaching in English: the data of backward language in childhood are tremendous; fewer and fewer children and girls begin to speak in German. That's why a public education network from 0 to 3 years would also ensure compliance with a law that has already been adopted by consensus in this parliament, which is the Law on Linguistic Standardization. Article 13, which guarantees the right of all children to be educated in their mother tongue, is not being complied with in the case of children and children of Galician descent, and much less is the right of all children to know Greek. There are little children in this country who don't know Greek, who you speak in English and who speak in a foreign language to them, and this is intolerable. So for our commitment to the universalization of teaching from 0 to 3, we will vote in favour of this motion, which is not beyond the pact that we have already signed all political forces with Unicef and which cannot remain in a beautiful role and in a beautiful photo, but rather has to have some commitments. It's, of course, our will to advance on a level of coverage similar to states where almost teaching from 0 to 3 reaches 100 percent.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u22	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, after this publicity campaign of the Socialist Party, it's now really about telling us what really matters to the Galician Socialist Party. So we have to talk not only about advertising companies, but about the realities, about what the new Government is going to do about families and children in Galicia. [[Applause]] Because, look, you're talking about respect for the decision of the Greeks, but of course we ask ourselves: the decision of the Greeks is respected, but only when the Socialist Party wins, because when you won the People's Party for the last ten years in Galicia, you seem to have failed to respect that decision. So respect has to be mutual both when they win each other and when they win each other. Now they say they start their way to defeat the People's Party in the Galician Union, and say so, a Member who many votes in his Town Hall didn't take off this Sunday. [[Applause]] So you keep working, because if you start that path, you might be able to defeat that government of Galicia. The author of this initiative says that the Galician Union must put its batteries. Well, I would like to remind you that today Galicia has 100 and three million euros for families and reconciliation policies. If we don't put it in perspective, we can't know if it's a lot or if it's a little bit: I'd like to clarify that it's a seventy percent more than what the Galician board used to do for families. Galicia now has more than twenty-four thousand public squares in children's schools, about fifty percent more than we had in 2009. Welcome card was expanded to three years, an economic aid of a thousand two hundred euros a year for families, and more than 40,000 families in Galicia received the Welcome card. New conciliatory services such as small houses were put in place, which at first you didn't like children's houses and now they're asking for more and more children's houses in those rural municipalities. And Galicia is the community that has higher tax deductions for birth and adoption. Well, the ratio of school squares recommended by the European Union is thirty-three percent. In 2009 Galicia had a rate of 19% in infant schools, fourteen points below the European Union's recommended average. Today Galicia has a ratio of forty-two percent, nine points above the European recommendation. In ten years the Galician Union increased by twenty-three points the ratio of public squares in children's schools. That's good management, and that was also referred to by most of the Greeks, who must also respect their opinion. In relation to the Council bond, what the Junta does is to ensure that no child is left without a child's school square. One hundred percent of the families who asked for a public school child's place have obtained it or received economic aid to choose the center where to take their children. It was EUR 3.4 million to help these families to have a child's school place; at present, four thousand and four hundred families receive this Council bond. In 2016 the Cunta de Galicia launched the children's houses, a new conciliation service — for us, fundamental — in those rural nuclei of less than five thousand inhabitants. Today Galicia has sixty-one nested houses, and is in processing a new order to put in place another fifteen new nested houses. Therefore, before this legislation is over, Galicia will have seventy-six child houses to reconcile also in rural centres; a free service for all families, with an investment of more than seven million euros. And since 2016, business parks have been providing help to set up a child's school in one of their parcels. At first they didn't like this initiative either; now they criticize the advisor because he's not able to start all those schools that are being requested through industrial polygons. Since 2016 this aid order has driven the launch of one hundred and seventy-six new squares in children's schools. And of course, then they're talking about the privatization model, that mantra, those fake news that use the opposition every day. I would like to remember that ninety-seven percent of public squares in children's schools are managed directly by the Galician Union. One hundred percent of the municipally competent infant schools in the municipality of Santiago are privatized, one hundred percent of the municipally competent infant schools in the municipality of Coruña are privatized, one hundred percent of the municipally competent infant schools in the municipality of Vigo are privatized, and one hundred percent of the municipally competent schools in the municipality of Pontevedra will directly manage the consortium. So, they come here once again to criticize the Council of Galicia when it's you who are privatizing the management of children's schools of your competence. I think all the data show the strong commitment of the Galician board to make Galicia one of the most supportive communities of the family, because there are more public squares in children's schools, more conciliation services, more economic aid and tax deductions. So, after the advertising campaigns, they have to come up with the facts...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u24	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u25	...and there we are waiting for you to put on the table made that the Government of Spain will be interested in families and children in Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Motion author group, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u27	Thank you, President. Madam People's Party, recognizing a defeat and blessing the winners is not a symptom of weakness, it is a symptom of humility, Madam. That's why I want to thank En Marea's voicer for her words today, because look, we also have to know how to win with humility, and we allow her to say that we haven't seen a People's Party win with humility. [[Applause]] We will do so humbly and with respect to all those people who voted for us, but we will not ask forgiveness either. [[Murmurs.]] We are going to say that we are manifestly proud and proud that citizenship has chosen our social model for this country, because that was, among many other things, what yesterday voted throughout the country and also mostly in Galicia, where the PSdeG had five hundred thousand votes, five points more than the People's Party, and that I understand, honourable Member of the People's Party, who deserves at least — let me tell you — a reflection. [[Applause]] A reflection, because, of course, I also understand that they will vote that they do not, because they did not stand openly either. But they're not credible. Look, they're not credible, because Ana Pastor said, three days after the election campaign was over, that she was betting on the freeness of day-care facilities to promote the reconciliation of work. What now? It's over, it's over, it's been four days of these statements, and it turns out we're bringing a motion here, which is exactly what you're trying to do, and you're telling us that you're not. It was a lie, of course. Obviously, citizens and citizens of Pontevedra province have already seen what they voted on yesterday; not only in Pontevedra, but in all the cities of Greece, because you referred to the city data before, and I think you don't have much to boast about there either. By the way, speaking of cities, prices in children's schools, accessibility in the cities of Greece: in Vigo, eight centres of childhood education; it's twice as many centres that put together the Junta de Galicia in industrial polygons, twice as much in a city as in the whole autonomous community you've been in these last few years. So do it. A municipality where an average of 82% of the public square price is actually subsidized; more than one million euros is allocated to this municipality. Ourense Town Hall... no, Ourense Town Hall has no public childhood schools, which I can't mention. I could talk about budgets and a lot of other things, but I don't. [[Applause]] Look, the fact is that this initiative was important, as we told you, because it favours conciliation, because it aims to increase that rate of female occupation, but above all because it aims to combat this tremendous scourge, that social inequality that exists in our country. Because, honourable Member of the People's Party, children's poverty is neither gripped nor contaminated, but it can be inherited, and institutional representatives — you too, and more after what happened yesterday in the polls — should be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u28	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u29	...trying to work to make it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u30	About the BNG amendment, will you accept it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u31	The amendment to BNG is to be replaced. It would eliminate the universalization of education for 0-3 years, which is the main proposal of this initiative, with which...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u32	You don't accept it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u33	... logically, sharing the essence of the rest of the proposals, because we cannot accept it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u34	Thank you. I'm getting a lot of suggestions about temperature. That's right. [[Murmurs.]] I don't want to get into another debate now, but we're trying to adapt it; everything has a period of adaptation, you know. We're trying to adapt this temperature, because, for example, you already see Mr Sánchez feeling comfortable. This is very complicated. Let's see how it goes. [[Murmurs.]] I understand that. Last motion. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece for the improvement of primary care
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u35	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion, you have the floor to Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u36	Good afternoon again. The situation of deterioration of public health in general is Galician and of primary care in particular, in which this motion today, presented by the BNG, as a result of the interpellation we made in the previous plenary session to the Health Counsellor, is not by chance, is not the result of chance. This deterioration and abandonment situation is the result of premeditation, it is the result of a plan that is perfectly designed and then perfectly executed, so solving this solution requires a plan that is designed and executed as well. That is why the motion we are presenting, which is extensive and which addresses part of the major concerns that exist at this time in relation to primary care. Because the cuts, privatizations, management policy, lack of transparency, the model change that the People's Party has made have threatened the public health system. With the excuse of the crisis — I will not tire of repeating it — it has introduced a neoliberal economic policy that has caused very important changes in the model. I have to remember that the accumulated cut for primary care from 2009 to this year 2019 and in the last ten years it has been over two billion euros and I have to remember that this year 2019 the budget for primary care remains well below 2009, at 188 million euros. Also, the per capita expenditure in Galicia in health is 1,380 euros, which is clearly below the average spent in the Spanish State, which is 1,403 euros, when it would have to be on the contrary: in Galicia it would have to be making a larger investment per capita, because we have an aging element and we have an element of dispersion of the population and these two elements — no longer within others — should at least lead to greater investment, when it is not. And budget cuts have had a negative impact on the resources that the system has. Cuts from health investments. There's nothing more to see than the deficiencies in health centers, the promises and the unconstructed. The spending on health personnel fell, and this drop was the cost of reducing staffing, establishing precariousness, establishing such models of not hiring weekends or of not hiring because of the cause of recruitment, to lower investment at the cost of job quality. 40% of primary care coupons are massive, with a thousand four hundred cards per medical professional. And if we go to the Vigo area for example, we find that these coupons are already going to ratios of two thousand or two thousand five hundred TSIs per professional. Yes, yes, don't put that face, Mr. Núñez Centeno. [[Murmurs.]] And there's scientific evidence that links the number of optionals per inhabitant and better health. There is a significant relationship between the provision of human resources in primary care and general health indicators. That's evidence the People's Party never wants to talk about. And since 2009 Galician Union policy has led to privatizing assistance services, privatizing strategic management, teaching, research, innovation, data, knowledge, everything that has been put forward for you. It carried out the reform of the Health Act, directed at consolidating this model. He consolidated the EOXI, where he put primary attention to this role as a second, where he turned to the centralized health model in hospitals. This model was recovered based on curative hospital care to the detriment of what would have to be primarily primary care, which is the promotion and prevention of health. This creation of EOXI has brought together the suppression of the primary care agency, its integration into hospitals, losing autonomy and, of course, a very important part of the resources. And when all studies and studies determine that budgetary expenditure in primary care must be 25%, not only in Galicia was not only increasing from 12.6%, in which the People's Party caught it in 2009, but still falling to 12.4% at this point. What does that mean? Because in primary care, associated with these cuts, there are restrictions on access to diagnostic tests, increased bureaucracy too — especially by delegation of issues coming from hospitals — the imposition of protocols and clinical guides also imposed by hospitals — where primary care criteria are not taken into account — or restriction of referrals and interconsultations. This clearly leads to loss of resolver capacity, quality in care, frustration and discomfort in the population and us and professionals. More and less is impossible to do. Before I gave the TIS data. We can give the data of the nursing professionals who exist colleges in Galicia: 14.211. There is one element to collide: what is the temporality level? I'm telling you what they're coming here to say no, that we have a level of consolidation and very high, but there's proof of the nine. This May 12 is the nursing staff selection test, for example, and it turns out that there are 8,832. This shows that the situation of, for example, Sergas nursing is that 37.5% of staff is exclusively what is done and that more than 62.5% is possible. That's a reality, as much as they want to deny it. A very high level of eventuality, a very high level of precariousness and a situation of continuous insecurity and stress, not knowledge of shifts and working days in advance, a really worrying mobility, changes — they call them readjustments — because of continuing service needs; today you are in extractions, tomorrow you are in emergency and past you are in pediatric, which leads to a situation since then not in care quality, not because of the professionalism of the people who work, but because this is certainly not an assumption. I believe — I said in the previous plenary — that a situation that we are naturally very concerned about the BNG and the professionals is that recruitment of people without experience for sensitive positions, such as ICUs, such as surgeons, such as can be emergencies, people who end up in these inexperienced services and often alone. And then the abuse of accumulation of tasks, which allow them to be continually wild. That is why we are presenting — I insist — this motion, where we are calling for an analysis of what the situation is, which ends with obscurantism, that if we are really told what the situation is, to present a plan for employment stability — to negotiate immediately — that will allow us to end this situation that I have just described, to call a public job offer with all the squares and in all the categories. What can't be that every two days they repeat, for example, that they're going to call in primary care five hundred optional squares; they're going to announce them again, announce them again and they're the same, and it's the accumulation of OP 2018 and 2019, which are not new squares. But if anyone looks at the media, the headlines, they seem to increase every week in five hundred squares, when they've been the same ones that they've been announcing for months. We demand that this new primary care contract be reconsidered, because it does not solve any of the problems and, in addition, what is going to consolidate a situation of precariousness and mobility. We demand to meet the demands of the CAP, retrieve primary care agencies with resolution and enforcement capacity and so on, develop nurse service portfolios, midwives, physiotherapists and also the competency map of the general service staff, realize that number of the TSIs for what I just said -- it can't be that exponential increase of them -- and increase investment in primary care, not those shallow and insufficient twenty million that are announcing and for which they will do not know what engineering work they're asking you to approve the Government of the State. It's that twenty million is chocolate, it doesn't solve any of the problems; we demand those 223 million euros at least. And then reverse that escalation of privatizations on which the People's Party is inserted. Nothing more for the moment and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u38	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. I don't know if the temperature was environmental or not, it's hard to have a debate today in fact especially reasonable, it's a complicated day to isolate yourself from the context, and then, since we're all doing our little rating, I share some things that some of the Members of the People's Party have said. I think we all have a chance to be wrong, all of us; some of us have already assumed a reality now as if it were already unremovable forever, and I also think there is a chance to be wrong in the People's Party. And the only thing that leads me to think about this is so fine skin. I stop thinking, if the result was reversed, what would we be hearing from the opposition today? And that's just what leads us to think it's important to be conscious. [[Applause]] In any case, let me — and that is an opinion that is also exclusively personal —: the PP for me is a political adversary, he is not an enemy, but today Spanish democracy has one more enemy in parliaments, and we ask you to return to normal in order not to kick our enemies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] On the motion presented today, we share, as we almost always share, the strategic line that defends BNG in the issues it raises, often with some discrepancy in content and in detail. At this point, we perceive a greater proximity to some of the points that are raised. We have our little focus on something, but nothing really leads us not to support the initiative and we will support it. We think it's, in addition, busy, because in the debate on primary care, there's almost nothing that's been said. We have a situation of primary care subject to two essential problems: an absolutely erratic planning, with contradictory decisions between themselves in very little space of time, and by the same leaders, and a certainly sovereign attitude; and there are two elements that quite distance the problem from the solutions. The erratic planning, in addition, has been increased recently with a ministry that has been activated to try to coordinate some solutions, which has tried to carry out some measures and has tried to support communities to be able to coordinate in the necessary measures. As has been said here — I would say that on the part of all groups — it is very important that some strategic decisions should not be left out, within the independence of each autonomous community, because the decisions of one of them affect others, in terms of staff, in terms of conditions, in terms of calls and in terms of quality of assistance, and therefore the coordination of the Ministry is good. It was good that I had arrived at a ministry that had done some work in this sense, because it is true that the previous one had done nothing at that point. However, we have found a council—and that is a criticism that we clearly make—that preferred to try to make wild, almost cheap electoralism by pretending to blow up meetings. The truth is that this is not natural among political leaders, and there is a super-acting of the enormous Council, before the inter-territorial councils and the opportunities that the Ministry has raised, which are basically issues that the socialists have been posing and doing where we govern and where we do not rule pose as opposition, which far exceed the things that the Council now assumes as good: the continuity contracts, which here they are made for a year, but which the Ministry is thinking of making two, as they are done in other autonomous communities; the improvement of wage conditions, of which we are talking about, but never carried out; the extension and stability of the squares, of which we are talking about, of course, with direct lies, as we are about 10% of instability, when instability and eventuality in Sergas exceeds 25%, as it is practically obvious to anyone who wants to analyze it. And besides this erratic planning, which sought more games of artificial effects and fires than to be concrete, there is certainly a sovereign attitude. The case of the chiefs of service of the Primary Care Area in Vigo shows as a symbol any situation; a problem that arises and is investigated in addition to a rather problematic personal attitude, even with Council officials attacking from the very first moment those chiefs of service because they resigned, in particular the manager of the EOXI de Vigo, who is still in office today, when he no longer had to be manager of the EOXI, who had to be out of the direction of the Council at the time he had to be. But still, in the situation in which we are, in the situation in which he had to live that management, he certainly never had the right words. It's important to realize that there's not all the truth about the situation, and I think by lowering that pride — and if anything can help the day from yesterday to that — it's also better for health, too, if you don't have the whole truth. Sovereignty is not a good companion, and of course it is trying to deceive, twist or twist reality is not good. You in the People's Party, in the Council, are very much to put on posters, they really like the posters they put on, they now boast about the posters of public hospitals. I suggest they put on a sign: "Citizens deserve leaders who don't lie to them." And since they really like the posters, put them on, and see if that's how we're able to, even if they're putting on posters, that you like them very much, they change planning and they change attitude, and if they happen to, just like this, they're much better off as a counselor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u39	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Miranda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Prado, of course we will support the motion, of course we believe in primary. We would speak full of it, because we value it and we know it's the most accessible, more efficient, more resolute and more equitable space for the health of all people. They worry about primary because it's the place that knows how it lives and how it hurts people, its relationships, its culture, its habits, its economic capacity and also its care networks. The primary is where inequality is best handled, the lowest place intervened by the market economy, which detects the consequences of social distress, also gender malaise, which must exercise the centrality of health care, with quality time by consultation, because we all know that time is the diagnostic and therapeutic value par excellence. And for that, you have to define correctly the necessary loads, ratios and professions. It is the right place to regain the universality that the policies of the People's Party have cast on the ground. They worry about primary because it is the place where chronicity is handled, where palliatives are exercised, and where they also work for worthy death in the absence of a law of euthanasia. Because the important thing is that we're people. We value the quality of who incorporates social work in the management of discomfort. We are concerned about better managing dependency, fragility and exclusion. It is necessary more primary and common sense in the use of resources, less medicalization of life, more prevention and more health promotion. We're worried about taking care of the most valuable thing we have in our healthcare system: their professionals. All professionals are demonstrating a degree of commitment and responsibility over their managers and need decent working conditions. We don't deserve these managers in our public health system, we don't trust them, we don't trust the primary care improvement plan, because it's inconcrete and it's tremendously superficial. We wondered what they did all these years to get to this point. We don't trust pre-election maneuvers either to disarm professional mobilizations. And by reviewing your bill for credit supplement, we see that they want to allocate 1.5 million for professionals and 8.5 million for furniture. Where are their priorities? Professionals are the main value, managing the suffering of people is the important, and time is the main resource. We don't trust that if we question the working day of our CAP partners, they need decent working conditions. We do not rely on the continuity contract for the precarious or high rates of eventuality, for example in nurses. We don't want precariousness institutionalized. We also aspire to another way of selecting bosses and chiefs of service, without any kind of arbitrariness. We don't trust the data that the councillor himself gave in this gallery when he was brought in. The average Greek score of patients per team is 1,275. But we don't want to talk about stockings, because Galicia is different, and it has absolutely suffocated urban coupons and other rurals that have to handle aging and dispersion. Lugo isn't Toledo, Courel isn't Salamanca, it doesn't look like Ten to Chamberí neighborhood. We're serious and we're fit to measure all the indicators. The primary has deteriorated with the People's Party — now a scarf. We were supposed to have invested 25% and here it was invested 12.6%. If we look at the Vigo area, only 11%; it's absolutely the most precarious; I'm not surprised at the response of their professionals. That 88% of the Galicians and the Greeks value primary as good or very good has nothing to do with their policies, has much more to do with professional engagement. It is the merit of the nurses, the janitors, the PSXs, the family doctors, the CAP professionals, the midwives, the auxiliaries and all those who commit themselves very much above their possibilities. Let's look at the community, use the health boards, take care of the tutors, undermine training and research within the working hours. The only plausible primary wager should be a necessary, sufficient, stable and defined budget allocation, and dignity for all its professionals. It's necessary for people's lives. And management structures themselves, because without autonomy the primary doesn't survive. But you don't believe in primary school, because you're not elite. Nothing has to do with their carpet policies — if, yes, they don't surprise — of reducing public spending, privatizing basic services. [[Murmurs.]] We bet on the primary, and that's why we're going to vote in favour of this motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Miranda. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u42	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. I must admit, Mrs Prado, that, after six and a half years of agreeing with you in this Parliament, today I was surprised, and I am not saying it either by tone or by your repetitive speech, that we have been listening all these years, but by the content and opportunity of this initiative that you bring here, also by the ease and quiet with which you say false figures here and it remains so wide. Of course, you didn't like to have the primary care strike in Galicia. I suppose he didn't like the problem of ambulances, the labor conflict with ambulances either. By the way, you still do not reject the vandalism that has occurred because of that strike. It makes you feel like you don't like the CAP professionals in negotiations with the Council. It seems — according to the press — that there will be an offer for professionals to vote on the convenience or not to accept it. And look, Mrs. Prado, ladies and gentlemen, there was already this week a meeting of the sectoral table in which the establishment of the primary care technical committee was confirmed by May 14th. The Council also committed itself at that meeting to the immediate use of EUR 3.5 million in the increase of primary staff following the approval by the Board of Directors of the Preliminary Draft Law on the strengthening of priority actions, which will allow the use of surpluses in that area. We've talked about new squares and new investments in technology, material and construction, expansion and improvement of new health centres. The calls for other professional categories were negotiated and an extraordinary new sectoral table was convened for this same week. It seems that the unions didn't get up from the table or call a new primary strike. And despite everything, you, Mrs Prado, surprisingly with an absolute lack of coherence, present this initiative. He asks for sectoral table, and he doesn't need it; he asks for negotiations, and he doesn't need it either. Look, the first point of your motion, Mrs. Prado, is about assessing human resources needs. I suppose it will mainly refer to the optional, the doctors, which is the absolutely defective category today, probably for quite a long time. But the problem is not to evaluate, the problem is to reach optional to cover the family and pediatrics squares, because today it is absolutely impossible to do so. You can ask the Ministry of Health to cooperate with the measures that can be used to achieve this. That's why I suppose you wouldn't support the initial position of Vigo's optionals, fortunately suspended, of not training as tutors the family residents who start their specialty this year. Did it seem to you, Mrs. Prado, an appropriate measure, a solution to address Vigo's primary care problems? I don't think so. It seems that the Galician Public Health Defence Association does not share the position and demands of the group of vigues optionals charging against them and talking about lynching of comrades or social matonism. Who's BNG with, Mrs. Prado? Another more recent one speaks of the breakdown of the Primary Care Galician Coordinator, from which most doctors are separated, to form assemblies of health areas with optionals from different areas and precarious ones. The co-ordinator also abandons the Galaga Association of Family and Community Medicine. Vigo doctors demand, in addition to the manager's head, according to the newspaper holder, a minimum of ten minutes per patient, a maximum of consultations per day and guarantees of patients' access to the hospital, issues that are being dealt with in negotiations at this time. Do you really believe that it is possible to attend a minimum of ten minutes in the current situation of optional deficits and to have a maximum of daily consultations without undermining the priority health care of the sick population or generating unbearable waiting lists? Really, Mrs. Miranda, really? I'd like to know some solution proposed by you, one by one. Because the board made decisions and sat down to talk. Mr. Torrado was talking about Madrid. In Madrid in the elaboration of the strategic framework, coordinators, doctors Zurro and Segura, were resigned, real family medicine pops. And why did they resign? Because they were talking about the inefficiencies of the measures proposed in that document, which was of course much less ambitious than Greek, and also with absolutely little short-term measures. In the last contributions made by the Ministry, it's not possible to make policy changes without a lot of specification. But look, the main demands of the medical groups, which are the financing and increase of professionals, are not included at all, which has caused this document not to be supported by them. This is the reality of the Ministry's plan, Mr. Torrado, and not what you said here. The real figures of primary care exposed them by the counsellor in the interrogation, I'm not going to repeat them. As far as stability is concerned, it is in negotiations with trade union organizations and Mrs Prado knows that the proposed OPE is absolutely illegal. You collaborate for the withdrawal of the replenishment rate and it might be legal. The rest of the demands — endorsed by the President — of his initiative will continue to be assessed with the trade unions and the technical committee, and the primary budgeting will, of course, rise according to the economic possibilities and specific needs. You can support the law that the Government will bring to this Parliament. In short, Mrs. Prado, let work and negotiate with those who are doing it, and accept that it has fallen to you that you — and not the professionals — have come up to defiance the Welsh health and the Government of the Council of Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u43	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Author group of the motion, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u44	First of all, I want to show the gratitude of the BNG for the support expressed by En Marea and the Socialist Party. And less bad than you are original, Mr. Núñez Centeno, less bad that you don't repeat your steps here; the truth is, I was surprised today, said so many originals that I don't know why to start with. Look, the BNG is on the side of public health, where we've always been, not in electoral times or when things go wrong with the People's Party, no. [[Applause]] We warned them, by land, sea and air, that it was good for you to rectify and accede to the demands that arrived by the Galician society, that was on the street, and the professionals, because they would have to correct, yes or yes, by the way of the facts. And it's already seen that the election results are pushing him quickly to that rectification; look where you look, look where you go. We will continue to bring about initiatives, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, as long as the problem is not solved. Because the reform of the People's Party in health policies, which have primary care in the ICU, are neither expected nor really expected. It looks more like orchestral maneuvers in the dark than real proposals. Because it is clear that the budgetary needs of primary care are far above those twenty million euros of that solution and that expenditure on the deficit that the People's Party now wants and that you want to sell as a solution when it is not. I gave you here the data of what is the level of temporality, what is the level of precariousness, data provided by the professionals themselves and that you don't really want to know what that data is. We asked them on several occasions to put in place strategies to find out what that situation was. And look at one thing, Mr. Núñez Centeno, the BNG has brought to this Parliament the request to eliminate the repositioning rate imposed by the Socialist Party, not eliminated by the People's Party and which has been theoretically approved by all groups of this House. Who doesn't know what he's done about it or why it hasn't been solved since then isn't because the Galician Nationalist Block hasn't demanded it for land, sea and air, for some who have the responsibility to solve it. Look, the professionals and the population know that what needs primary care is budgeting; that's why we demand at least 223 million euros. The ability to plan is needed; therefore, primary care agencies are required with that capacity for resolution. They need more staff; that's why we demand stability, so we demand that the People's Party end this labour policy of having professionals in an unacceptable situation. We need to solve the problems of the CAP, which today are not solved; with which, if you are on your way, why don't you vote in favour? Why don't you vote in favour? And the professionals need time, have more time for consultations, and end this situation. And those are the issues that we demand on this initiative and that we will continue to demand, because they are neither solved nor practically started. There are promises out there flying, but of course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u45	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u46	...real alternatives, no, because the People's Party doesn't want to give alternatives, because you know perfectly well that this was a bet...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u47	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u48	...ideological premeditated and kept to have public health in their situation. But, I insist that they correct...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u50	...or, otherwise, someone will do the work you don't do. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u51	Thank you. We shall proceed to the vote on the motions. Close the doors, please. We started by voting for the En Marea Parliamentary Group. There are no amendments. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. in Marea, at the initiative of Mr. David Rodríguez Estévez, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece in the field of labour in relation to the forest fire prevention and extinction device. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u52	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. There is an amendment, which has not been accepted, of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. We vote. [[Murmurs.]] Excuse me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They call for a point of order. Do you accept a point vote, Mrs. Blanco? I don't understand. I don't hear anything. [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Accept it? She doesn't accept it. So we started the vote. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to access and planning of child education from 0 to 3 years The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u53	And finally, we voted for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. No amendments were tabled. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece for the improvement of primary care The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u54	Open the doors, please, that the votes have been completed. We continue with the second point, proposals not of law. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de In Marea, at the initiative of Da Carmen Santos Queiruga, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the reservation quota set out in Article 42 of the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2013 of 29 November, so the recast text of the General Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and its social inclusion is approved
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u55	There are amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and to the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u56	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the President's permission, in this first intervention we could not leave or fail to tell the Galician People's Group that, although for the first time they lost the elections in forty years, as Mrs Prado said, because electoral doping, irregular funding, information manipulation, interior cloacas that they used against the opposition, in particular against Pablo Iglesias, and together with the ultra-reactionary rotation of their head married, did not work; citizenship applied to them a great historical correction, which we consider absolutely necessary in democratic terms, that for us is the greatest relief and tranquility, beyond the results we could achieve, since they contribute to an end that is fundamental to us, that is to have a progressive and sensible Spanish state. But look, in spite of your actions, we follow the same line and consider you, the members of the PP, as valid interlocutors, because it is the citizens with their votes who either take away the legitimacy or the interaction that we are in this House. We couldn't debate this initiative in 2017 — you know — with the dignity that people deserve with functional diversity, and so I proposed in my group to bring this initiative back just after the elections, because we are not going to frivolize with this ever, as did the People's Party of Galicia at that time — and I say high and clear — one, on the part that affects me, twice, and the other, for people who have some functional diversity, like me, to live in equality. I would like to thank the BNG and the Socialist Party of Galicia once again, specifically Patricia Vilán, Mr Villoslada and Mr Luís Bará, for raising that day of the commission, for not considering that way of doing politics and dealing frivolously with such an important and transcendental issue, and also for their suggestion that we had taken into account, that this was an initiative to bring to the full and not to a commission, and that is why we announced it and here is, at the time that the citizenship spoke loud and clear about what country they want and what their priorities are, that it was clear that it was not confrontation, but rather that we were drawing such initiatives. And even though they don't like it, we'll keep saying things clearly to their face, in reality, while we can't change things in Galicia too, and we won't let it go of working to build that Galicia hard and hard. There are thousands of stories full of struggle, stories in which overcoming and exerting themselves are the key to success and that demonstrates that people with functional diversity can give a different and enriching view of life if public authorities do not make charity and subsidies policies for us, but social and egalitarian construction policies, making positive discriminations until society, which affects building above and below, matures and progresses until such corrections are unnecessary. We're not at that moment. Therefore, corrective measures are absolutely necessary to facilitate integration in equality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u58	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u59	...people with different diversity, because people with functional diversity have special needs, but we also have special capabilities, along with a different view of things, which means a different contribution as valuable not only to companies themselves but to society as a whole in general. By putting more specific information on the table, as we did then, according to the 2017 data — and it did not change the situation at all — the Galego Institute of Statistics already pointed out that more than 8% of the population in Greece had a disability equal to or greater than 33%. We talked about this a year ago and that a percentage of the so important population of Greek society didn't have a proper response to their special situation. And it is up to all administrations (to Galicia, to the local and central authorities) to promote the inclusion in the labour market of people with functional diversity, to increase their level of independence, autonomy, so that this will allow us to break up — and once and for all — with stigma introduced in certain sectors of society and the business sector, such as, for example, that people with functional diversity are less able to meet their business objectives or that we are supposed to be less efficient when we develop our jobs; and let's not say whether those with functional diversity are women and live in rural areas. The data do not lie and so it is reflected, for example, in the high unemployment rates that present people with functional diversity, which are usually above ten points in the average. It attracts attention, for example, to people who also present some kind of mental or intellectual problem, where unemployment rates can rise to over 40%, or more or less. Unfortunately, activity rates are surprisingly low. Galicia has the lowest rate of activity in the whole state; it was in 2017 and it was in 2019, although those in charge of these areas are not interested in listening, so you see. In 2017, just like this year, there are around 23% of people who have some kind of disability and work in the autonomous community, in the German country, and who have one post, for statistics, twenty-three out of every 100 people with functional diversity, a very low number. This data, for example, can be compared with the Madrid Community, which is still around 42%, and in Euskadi, which is around 39%. That Galicia continues to be in the latest position today in this ranking is something that should concern not only the Greek Government of the absolute majority of Feijóo, but all the parties that we are here today also in the opposition, those who, in fact, are concerned about us, and we have already expressed it on various occasions and also when this initiative was first introduced. Because it is clear that there is a lot to go on and that the public policies that are trying to promote the integration of this collective, of my collective, are not being sufficiently efficient. In fact, despite existing procurement measures and aid, subsidies, social security allowances or corporate tax deductions, more than 80% of companies, more than 80% of companies, which is scandalous, do not comply with legal regulations, failing to meet the reserve quota for people with functional diversity. It's a scandal. It's a scandal. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's just that it's common because they don't listen and, above all, on subjects that are so important, topics that are so important; they don't care. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u60	Quiet. Continue, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u61	Specifically, Article 42 of the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2013...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u62	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u63	...of 29 November...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u64	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u65	...indicates that it will be necessary for those companies of more than 50 workers, both public and private, to reserve at least two out of every 100 jobs for people with functional diversity. Unfortunately, the situation today is very different from what the law says...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u66	Excuse me a moment, Mrs. Santos. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Quiet. I've asked for silence several times. Anyone who has to talk about going out, please. Quiet. Quiet. Quiet. Thank you, go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u67	The regulations indicate that it would be necessary for those companies of more than 50 workers, both public and private, to reserve at least two out of every 100 jobs for people with functional diversity. And that's not true. I repeat: 80% of the companies have no obligation to do so. And from our group we only want to defend ourselves and enforce the current legal legislation, effectively and proactively fighting for the fulfilment of the quota of reserves of people with functional diversity, both in the public and in the private sector. So one of the points we have in this LNP is that no company can access public contracts or subsidies unless it believes that it complies with the applicable legal rules and believes that it respects the reserve quota fixed or, failing it, it makes the necessary alternative measures. As we said to feminism, we believe that, in this case, discrimination also suffers from women in this area, it is essential that they comply with and enforce. We believe from our group that these measures, these initiatives help to increase the employability of people with functional diversity, because, as we have previously noted, the rate of activity of this collective in Galicia is the lowest in the state and continues to improve without any improvement. It's a shame we're glued to in this eddy. And if we focus on specific issues about self-employed workers and self-employed public workers, where, yes, because of state pressure or changes in state regulations — and there is already a chasm since I opposed, in 2005, where regulations were not met at the German level -- now that we are able to cover a percentage of not less than 7% of the squares called for to be covered with people with diversity and that we can reach 2% of the total staff receiving public employment. But it's also true that, even though in Galicia the forecast is made that for people with disabilities or functional diversity that in addition to adding mental problems there is a specific call, it's totally insufficient. So we know that these people also have about 40% unemployment -- that is, their situation is much more serious -- and the number of places reserved for them is about thirty-three places, which is anecdotic and insufficient. It's true that something has started since June, also in compliance with state regulations, but we certainly think that much more progress has to be made. That's why the two points of this initiative seem fundamental to us, one, because it is on the one hand that we stand up to defend that we respect legal regulations in relation to the subject of quotas reserved for people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u68	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u69	...in public companies, mainly in private companies, which is where it is most done, where according to data we are the queue of Spain, and — I repeat — 80% is inescapable...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u70	Thank you very much, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u71	...and we believe that no one can deny this and that it is absolutely essential that we meet these kinds of needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u72	Thank you very much, Mrs. Santos. By the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u73	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. Today, which is both spoken everywhere, in the media, all here here also in the gallery, of election successes or electoral failures, let me refer to an election success that I believe is all and all of them and happened yesterday: that for the first time in a general election of over 100,000 people with intellectual disabilities, with mental illness or cognitive impairment, they were able to exercise their right to vote. [[Applause]] We think it's something important and that's why we push it. The Socialist Party pushed him to the Madrid Assembly, also to the Congress of Deputies. We believe that it is important to continue to walk along that path of social progress, in another success that is a success that the Socialist Party had yesterday and that we will continue to do so also by the Government of Spain. But much remains to be done, not only in terms of inclusion, but also of the very recognition of disability. A year ago, in April 2018, we approved in this House an initiative by the PSdeG where we asked for the increase of these evaluation teams to eliminate the waiting list before the end of November 2018. Well, we're in April 2019 and this agreement continues to fail. These days, over the past few weeks, we have known through the social policy workers in Pontevedra that the staff remains insufficient, so that 263 people died in this province in 2018 while waiting for this assessment. As a consequence of what? As a result of a government that considers disability policies a malaria, a government that lacks empathy and lacks sensitivity, because only this tremendous aberration can be explained in this way. But already on the initiative, access to the labour market — and we say it many times — for people with disabilities — for everyone but for others — is one of the main ways of social integration. That's why it's precisely one of their greatest aspirations and, in view of data and reality, also one of their greatest frustrations. The data are worrying all over Spain, but the fact is that Galicia is much worse than on the national average. They are worse at a lower rate of higher education, at the lowest rate of activity, the wage difference with people who have no disabilities from the largest in Spain. And we tabled an amendment precisely to reinforce this initiative a little bit, because we believe that the Galician Union cannot continue to look elsewhere. You have to be careful and start with the basics. To account for this Galician Strategy on Disability 2015-2020 — as long as we no longer know once it has hung on the web — ensure that it meets the reserve quota, a comprehensive control of these special employment centres, which already have their own agreement far below the sectoral conventions. But in addition to increasing this activity of the Inspectorate, this sanctioning activity, the Galician Union must also set an example and extend control to another area, to that also related to public procurement itself. We, from the Government of Spain, have increased it and we have included it again in this initiative, because it is a commitment that we have and we believe it is necessary to increase this work of the Labour Inspectorate, and also to promote a reform of legislation to continue to maintain the family benefit for children with disabilities in charge in the event that they also have an annual income from work returns above 100% of the minimum inter-professional wage. Finally, it is about strengthening an initiative that is aimed at us to continue walking towards social progress, an initiative that enables us to move forward towards a society in which to have different capacities does not mean that we have fewer opportunities in the workplace either. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u74	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanco. For the People's Parliamentary Group, you have the floor of Mrs Rodríguez-Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u75	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. I'm not going to lose a second in answering anything that was said, because it seems to me to be a sufficiently important subject and on which we never frivel with people with disabilities. What I do want to say to you, Mrs. Blanco, is that we fully share the success, which is a success for all, that 100,000 people with disabilities were able to vote for the first time yesterday in the general elections. [[Applause]] The initiative brought by the En Marea Group today, which is based on the defense of the reservation quota of article 42 of the General Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Their Social Inclusion, is a defense in which we, from the Popular Group, agree absolutely. In fact, the policy that has developed the Union over the last two years goes on that line. You quoted him in his intervention. The first call that took place in the history of Galician Autonomy was convened by the current Government of Galicia two years ago, in April 2017; and the second call one year ago, in April 2018, when second oppositions were held for people with intellectual disabilities. That is to bet on facts about inclusive employment. It is also included, as you know, in the Welsh Strategy on Disability 2015-2020 and the Public Employment Act. But by focusing on your initiative, on the fulfilment of Article 42, which is the object of this initiative, I will give you data, Mrs. Santos. Persons with disabilities serving in the Autonomous Community Administration in December 2018 reached 4 %, a percentage greater than 2%. The career staff, 4.10%, and the acting staff, 2.96%; among the employees, 4.81%, and temporary, 3.35%. And by not extending to me examples such as the Presidency, Public Administration and Justice Council, 2.93 per cent, and the Sergas Human Resources Directorate, 6.49 per cent. So, Your Honor, we are talking about much higher percentages than that required by Article 42. That's a commitment to inclusive employment. It is also important to highlight the work of the Social Security Labour Inspectorate, in collaboration with the General Employment Secretariat. It develops an annual monitoring and information campaign on companies with more than 50 employees in their staff with at least 2% of disabled workers, and also ensures that it is complied with with the obligation to refer in the first quarter of each year to this Public Employment Service the detailed relationship of the jobs occupied by persons with disabilities, lifting proceedings of infringements with their corresponding penalties. On the other hand, to boost inclusive employment, the budget of the Economic Council this year includes more than 15 million euros to launch specific programmes, which you will know, through aid to the one hundred and nine special employment centres, for recruiting people with different capacities in the Greek companies. For example, the Galicia programme employs, with incentives of EUR 8,000 for initial recruitment and EUR 16,000 for indefinite contracts. This is a commitment to inclusive employment, although much more needs to be done — entirely in agreement. With regard to the accreditation of the reserve quota for access to public contracts, it is already mandatory by law. The 2017 Contracts Act, in Article 71, a law passed by a People's Party Government, in paragraph (d) states that "it is forbidden to hire companies that do not meet the requirement that at least 2% of their employees are workers with disabilities". Even so, also in the Law on the Rationalization of the Autonomic Public Sector, a number of public contracts for special employment centres and labour insertion companies have been regulated since 2015; in 2018 a 3% on contracts marked by law has been established. And I also want to remember that, in the law itself, the board's social clause guide foresees that, in addition to fulfilling the reserve quota, in the case of a tie of two companies that will be hired by the Administration, it is used as a criteria to displace the fact that a company improves and exceeds that percentage of 2%. With regard to the issue of tax benefits, as you know, in terms of self-regulation, this is why we tabled the amendment at point two, and we agree with point one.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u76	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u77	And, of course, Mr President, all of us here, all of us, I am sure that we want the best for people with disabilities. I think it would be good, really, for everyone, to recognize what is doing well and to support it and keep moving forward; as you say, it is important to move forward on this subject. That's why we think they can accept...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u78	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u79	...—Finished, Mr President—our amendment. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u80	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. You have the floor by the Galgo Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u81	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. Mrs. Rodríguez–Vispo, with all affection, who listened to her, also seems to have lived in a happy world and that the data that we have just referred to a moment ago did not place us in the first place, but in the queue, as for the insertion of work. And focusing on the debate on the initiative that Mrs Santos is presenting today, focusing on the debate, what we are talking about is the construction of an inclusive, fair, but, above all, democratic society. And I think that precisely that reference to the conquest in 2019 of the right to vote in general elections to over 100,000 people who were excluded from democratic right to participate in the election of their representatives and their public representatives, who are going to be the people or in some way we have to make the political decisions that can condition their lives, gives us good sense of the degree of progress. It has indeed advanced, but we understand — and I believe that this is the bottom line of the question that is being debated here today — that goes at an excessively slow pace and that this delay in achieving that actual and effective inclusion is what is vetoing or maintaining on the margins or excluding fundamental democratic rights a part of our society. I think that's the heart of the matter. And so, from the public, from the political point of view, this happens to guarantee the same opportunities, equity and social justice in access to opportunities for all the population, effectively adjusting to the different, diverse capacities that any one of us here — that no one creates the opposite — have. And that is why it is because it is not to exclude and maintain in the margins — I insist — that it is to combat and eradicate any form of discrimination, but also to develop policies of positive action that end with that absolutely remote situation from what must be a truly inclusive, truly just society that is considered democratic. And, in that sense, these actions, which are those that refer to in that real decree in 2013 when it comes to the field of work, are also the condition for guaranteeing a fundamental right to work, because the right to work is a fundamental right inherent to anyone by simply being and that is linked to another basic question, which is to guarantee the right to have a life, within these different capacities, of these different conditions that each person has, the most autonomous and the most independent possible, not only in relation to wages but also to the ability to choose one life or another. And in that sense we support the initiative and we will finally see how it falls to the thread of the amendments that have been tabled. But I'm simply a matter of administration. The Administration plays a fundamental role — and we have talked about it many times — in terms of gender and other types of discrimination that exist in our society, it has a responsibility and a very powerful capacity as an employer, because it has a capacity as a fundamental employer as a contractor, with the social clauses that we have already defended here in the field of disability or any other form of discrimination, but, above all, as a government; that is, there is a responsibility to ensure that all public areas but above all private areas have to meet those conditions that are met in that decree of the year 2013 with the reservation of a percentage of squares and the guarantee that people with disabilities also have such opportunity to opt for a job. We believe that it is essential not only that rights be collected — we have said so many times — on the paper, which is essential, but above all truly to ensure that those rights are materialized and complied with. For that reason, that Labour Inspectorate of which the Socialist Party amends, and we have to -- with this end -- take into account that ultimately it is not trivializing, is that we are talking about that there is a part of our society that is excluded from its fundamental rights and basic rights, and any society that intends to say to itself as democratic cannot maintain that for longer. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u82	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Santos Queiruga has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, we want to thank the Socialist Party of Galicia and the BNG for their support for this initiative and its contributions, which I will now comment on. And I would also like to thank Mrs Rodríguez-Vispo because, indeed — I share with you another committee — she has never frivolized with these issues. It's a pity the committee hadn't done exactly the same thing, but I recognize you, of course, that it's always impeccable in your work and in your parliamentary work on these issues. Yes, we can't share, and I can't share -- moreover, because I know the reality at first hand -- that Greek world that showed when we're at the queue of Spain in integration of people with functional diversity; we're at the queue, we're the last of the state. And that's why we think the Socialist Party's amendment has been amended, because it's one of the points where the initiative essentially revolves around. If there's a breach of 80% of quota companies that have to have legally insured people with functional diversity, it's very serious. So the German Government has a political responsibility to enforce the law on this issue. Besides, people with functional diversity don't want charity, we don't want subsidies or we don't want any of that. And what you can't expect is that we agree to access public employment offers, which are very good -- I was the first one who did it -- working in the Public Administration to ensure stability and working conditions, and, in addition, I believe that we play a very good role, like other officials and civil servants, assuming that we have certain limitations in certain jobs, each one in a different field according to their diversity, but I didn't have another remedy left. But I'd like to see my Government at Union in a company that had forced me to comply with the law so that I could get access to a job in the private company. And that's not happening. The data are chilling in Galicia, the worst in the state. So the People's Party—good—has done something good, like these special offers in the case of mental health and intellectual disability, but the rest is a bad, bad management; we are the last of the state. And it doesn't seem less to us to give greater public visibility to people with all kinds of diversity, because, indeed, it's a right, to have a right to work, apart from the right to exercise democratically democratically in a historical manner in these elections -- about a thousand people were able to participate -- but it must also be a democratic right to have a work worthy of equality, not by charity, by equality, by inclusion, by equality, by having social justice. And in addition, I repeat that rural women are the major victims of this kind of business practices. So, it's no less than the Board excludes companies that violate the established legal quota. Well, I'm telling you, for example, I had access to a requirement for a grant granted by Igape for the internationalization of pemmes in which, in the conditions that were requested...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u84	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u85	...—ending, because it's important—to access it at no time a specific mention is made if you comply with the current legal regulations on the quota reserved for people with functional diversity. And yet, if it was a recognized obligation in the prayers to be aware of the payment of Fairy, which is normal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u86	Finish, please. Please position yourself on the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u87	Then it's not being fulfilled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u88	Mrs. Santos, I understand that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u89	On the amendments, we would accept the amendment of the Socialist Party, and on the amendment of the People's Party, I prefer that we sit down and see that fit can have and we can reach an agreement on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u90	All right, thank you very much. Let's move on to the next initiative. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Raúl Fernández Fernández and Mr José Manuel Pérez Seco, on the modernization of agricultural and livestock production structures in order to measure the achievement of the objective of increasing the weight of agricultural producers and farmers in the value chain, especially for milk producers and producers
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u91	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u92	Mr Fernández Fernández has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon again to all and to all. It would be almost unnecessary to report, repetitive and obvious, of basic and elementary and well-known issues that are based on any initiative that revolves around rural areas. Sometimes we have the feeling of preaching in the desert, that this is a lost battle, that our listeners are alone, that we are in an unequal struggle, without the possibility of success, that we have repeated so many and so many times the data, arguments and proposals that give us the reason but which is not recognized by those who have the possibility of turning that reason into facts, which invites us not to persist. It seems reasonable to have the doubt of persistence, of leaving us, too, but I am sure, by my own experience, that they are only occasional doubt. In the end, at the bottom, we are always weighed more by the dream of rural, the illusion of a dynamic, multifunctional, full of life, too — why not — bucolic, full of memories, of culture, of heritage, of the future. At this point, it would almost be unnecessary to repeat it, but I recognize it would be a mistake. The abandonment of the repetitive would be an error and silence would still be a bigger error. That is why I refuse not to be repetitive to rural, and therefore I call on everyone to be repetitive in the complaints of the abuse of rural and demanding in the solution of the multiple deficiencies that rural has. [[Applause]] Because Galicia shows a recognized stage of weakness in a wide area of the autonomous community, despite the recognized strengths of those at its disposal in that same area. Thus, the so-called rural environment advances in the depopulation and abandonment of lands, identifying more and more with desertification. And I'm not saying this with pessimism or with pesorative intent; rather, it's a pity, the frustration that we're not in the countryside, despite the enormous potential that we have in that rural area. Furthermore, Galicia needs to rebalance the huge imbalance that exists today between rural and urban: in urban areas it lives seventy-five or eighty-eight percent of the population occupying twenty-hundred and thirty percent of the territory, and in rural areas it lives twenty-five or thirty percent of the population occupying seventy-eight percent of the territory. This scenario of rural weakness does not seem to be acceptable; this scenario does not invite repetitiveness in the complaint and, much less, non-demandative. Because this imbalance limits and even reduces the overall development of Galicia in economic, natural, employment, environment and so on. It is therefore necessary to shorten this negative dynamic and promote active policies that overcome this situation in fields such as rural population fixing; the incorporation of young people into rural areas to ensure generational relief and even to explore new opportunities for activity and employment; the maintenance and empowerment of the dairy sector, with the impetus to the establishment and opening of dairy processing plants in Galicia, as well as the improvement in the marketing of milk; the increase in the weight of farmers and farmers in the value chain, especially for milk producers, etc.. I'm sure there are a lot more fields in which to act in rural Greek, and active policies must reach them. I have the conviction that, if we are permanent and persistent rural activists, we will achieve a more lively, dynamic, more sustainable and, of course, more habitable rural environment. Finally, a much better Greek rural environment, incorporating the nature of its progress. In this context, the Socialist Parliamentary Group presents this non-legislative proposal which, in its generality, reaches agricultural production structures and, in its singularity, aims at increasing the weight of agricultural producers and producers in the value chain. Literally, our proposal prays: "The Greek Parliament urges the Galician Union to bet on the modernization of agricultural and livestock production structures, with a public and verifiable follow-up on their annual results, in order to measure the achievement of the objective of increasing the weight of agricultural and livestock producers and producers in the value chain, especially for those and producers of milk." The current milk map of Galicia does not look like what existed twenty-five years ago. Then, the census of farms was in seventy thousand, scattered throughout the territory, and today we are in seven thousand four hundred — the tenth part — mostly concentrated in four districts of the north of Lugo and Pontevedra and the interior of the Coruña: the district of Terra Chá, the district of the Ten, the district of Orders and the region of the Xallas. Then, too — twenty-five years ago — production was 1.5 million tons; in 2018 it was almost twice as much as 2.7 million tons. Today Galicia produces 40 percent of Spain's milk. The increase in production was very significant in the twenty-five main dairy municipalities of the community, however, this evolution at the height of the volumes of milk produced, which keeps Galicia as a milk production reference in Spain, is not accompanied by income corresponding to producers; in fact, the Greek producers are the ones who register the lowest payments from all over Europe. It is therefore evidence that there is a gap between the industry and the milk-producing livestock; a gap that, if not corrected, may endanger the sustainability of farms. There are several reasons why the important differences of price in origin between Welsh milk and that of the whole of Europe are justified; I will only name some of them: first, the absence of a processing industry that directs its activity — or part of it — to transform milk into products of high added value; second, the failure of a powerful cooperative tissue capable of acting in the different phases of the dairy chain; third, the need to increase the territorial base of farms in order to avoid the purchase of fodder and foreign thought; and more, the absence of qualified labour, which obliges the growing farms to have difficulty in carrying out their daily work normally. As I said, there are some of them; there are many more that I don't name right now. It is clear that action must be taken to ensure the sustainability of farms. We need greater participation of producers in marketing and industrialization, taking into account the gap between production and industrialization of milk in Galicia. To that end, it is essential to face these challenges together, with basic agreements between the two parts of production and industry — and also the food distribution — and also with effective support from the administrations, and with non-belligerence on the part of the National Commission on Markets and Competition. Obviously, we call on the groups to support this initiative. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. Mr Rivas Cruz has the floor by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't know, ladies and gentlemen, if I develop my intervention with a sentence in English every four or five in Spanish, to appear, in the eyes of the world, as a modern deputy practicing a harmonic bilingualism, as did yesterday the leader of the People's Party — every time less — of Galicia. And if, from time to time, I include a few words in English, better than better. [[Applause]] Of course, I wouldn't have any problems, and therefore I'm going to continue with the speech that is solidarity with my people, which is the people of Galicia. But I'm going to stick to the word modernity or, better, to the concept of modernization. Some people restrict modernization to the use of new technologies without taking into account other aspects, almost always at the service of producing less time and sometimes at the service of trastrating what reality in the common sense demands and marks. Exploitations of six hundred, eight hundred or a thousand dairy cows with a small territorial base generate an external dependency that, sooner or later, passes an invoice. The proliferation of oversized machinery with respect to plots can become against the economic viability and soil health. Making or promoting sustainable holdings in time, in the middle and in the economy is not modern, because the model to which we have been walking for years has led to a gap between the land base and the size of the farms, a surplus of machinery and the abandonment of territory and occupation. You can't play all the milk card: forestry and first transformation, diversification and production healthy and environmentally friendly. Is it not modern to reduce feeding costs by increasing the territorial base, to reduce unnecessary machinery and to increase the productive life of animals with a less stressful management? Use the widespread occupation of people, as has always been our modus vivendi, facilitating a management of the territory and taking advantage of its biomass is delay? And, above all, to seek that the transformation of the primary products that generate rural products be done there, in rural areas, taking advantage of added value and setting population is to return to the countless past? To reduce rural economic possibilities to liquid milk, canned meat and eucalyptus that is, delay or modernization? But, above all, leaving rural people and their possibilities to save themselves who can from liberalism, or what is the same, to renounce the role of a government to influence a model exposed and ratified by polls, leaving the future in the hands of private companies and groups, what is it? Because our rural area has features to sit down again dynamic and young people who manage the territory producing food, rough wood and more elaborate. To take this challenge seriously is to govern and serve a people and a country changing negative demographic trends. For when are some comarcial agrarian offices equipped with their personnel, to the service of the field and their development, and not what do we now have the mercy of the popular party's disgust? They promote and transmit research and advise, channel and instigate innovative initiatives. Do you remember the PNL that dropped down the other day, violating the legality even marked by the People's Party? When will they want to promote and protect small farms with comarcal centers equipped with disposal rooms, empty packaging, manufacture of artisanal cheeses, preserved, and so on? Serious promotion of small local product trade: when? Any modernity should be guided by the structural characteristics and possibilities of the country, duly consulted by the experts — who have them — and we return to the agricultural comarcas, duly endowed. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that our amendment will be properly explained, that it is only intended to include this concept of modernity in the resolution of its GNP. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas. Mr Rodríguez Estévez has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u97	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all of us again. Well, from En Marea we will never cease to bet on this modernization of these productive structures, agricultural and livestock. The one about public follow-up I think it shouldn't even be in this debate; what it's got to do with public funds is to use them well, not to speculate with them. The same with respect to the verifiable relative to its annual results to measure its objectives. I understand that this non-law proposal will pass this procedure without any kind of problem, since it is one of the most recurrent slogans in this rural legislation, with a modernization that the council sells to us as a cornerstone of a country project for our agricultural sectors which, in fact, does not exist. It turns out that this modernization — when it comes — and the aid is so inaccessible, in many cases, for the small and medium-sized exploitation that only the usual and the usual ones, the large companies. I'm going to give an example: The Official Journal of Galicia this April 26th — on Friday — was bringing a series of aids: Identification and optimization of new sources of vegetable protein for the feeding of organic curral poles: Coren, 80,000 euros. Production of aromatic plants for improvement of poultry production (meat and eggs): Coren, 80,000 euros. Study of cattle feeding alternatives for improving the protein profile of 100% Greek milk, increasing its complaining aptitude in the production of native cheese type Arzua-Ulloa: Coren, 78,000 euros. More efficient beef production strategies through improved food, environment and animal welfare: Coren, 79,000 euros. Home!, two hundred and forty thousand euros, Mr. Fernández... I think they bet on modernization, what's the matter is that they could well diversify these aids a bit and also favour those small producers and those small merchants and traders who are starting their agribusiness. Of these examples we have to bore. Last January 15th, speaking of vineyard, we saw as we had already called last year, in these subsidies, were the large wine cellars that benefited, to the detriment of the small and the winegrowers and winegrowers or harvesters. In addition, it was the Autonomous Community of Rioxa which brought a great deal of this cake. Five large cellars have captured forty-three percent of these aids. When the Middle Rural Counsellor here tells us about a fairer distribution in the common agricultural policy for small and small producers, we don't understand very well why the story doesn't apply here too and does exactly the same. We have to distribute a little bit better and make it easier for those and those who are starting their field activity. It also happens — not only in the Rural Council — that there are companies and large cooperatives with privileged information that are clearly benefiting from these actions, to the detriment of other farms and holdings most in need of these funds, for modernisation, in this case. We are also talking about milk on this initiative: I fully agree with Mr Fernández. First, we're still in the European Union's queue van as much as the price per litre of milk on the farm. We are the sixth country in the European Union with a lower price in origin, always below the thirty-two cents, while the average in the European Union is around thirty-five. All this because we don't have a real transformation industry, a real industry that leaves that value added here, but it takes us to companies from outside; a very high-quality milk that's taking it to companies from outside to transform. In the face of the passivity, perhaps, of the Galician Union, initiatives are emerging, like the one that presented a union this April 25, a beautiful project called "Who is the boss? The consumer mark, or the consumer mark; this initiative was born in France. Consumers and consumers choose how we want them to be the food we consume and pay a fair price to producers and producers. This is a necessary dialogue of production-consumption, where the Administration should also be in this case. On the one hand, it is consumers themselves and consumers who will say how we want it to be our milk — speaking of milk — for example, whether it's from Galician or not, pastoral care or not, whether it's transgenic or not, etc. etc That's the path that must be taken to the passivity of administrations, which should in many cases ensure that this does not happen. I agree with Mr. Rivas: modernization must also be useful. I know you're taking the spokesperson for the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u98	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u99	...—I've finished selling us the advances we've had in our farm, and I understand it's necessary. In fact, we are going to support this initiative because we think it is necessary, but we do not see it as effective that it is imposed, because, if it is imposed, the activities that develop in the territories will hardly reach the right port. Compulsory telematic applications, for example: we think this is not operational. Modernisation must be accompanied by training; it must be accompanied by advice. For our part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u100	Thank you very much. You have the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Blanco Paradelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Commission reached the following agreement on a non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Party on 7 March: "The Greek Parliament urges the Galician Parliament to bet on the modernization of agricultural and livestock production structures, with a public and verifiable follow-up on their annual results, in order to measure the achievement of the objective and the increase in the weight of agricultural and livestock producers and producers in the value chain, especially for milk producers". This same initiative, as we say, was adopted on 28 March. So the truth is, I don't understand anything at all about bringing this initiative. Sometimes someone might regret that we reached that agreement and present a self-amendment because he wants to modify something; they say that there was no self-amendment either. I don't know if it is, Mr. Fernández, that you regret that agreement and you wanted another deal, or I don't know if you didn't realize it, or if you didn't have any other initiatives, or that we're doing everything so well that you have to repeat the initiatives we approved. With all due respect — I really say — it does not seem to me to be serious about this initiative. I see no group said anything. I suppose, if we did it ourselves, they would give us a terrible pipe; they do it when we bring normal initiatives because they bother them; they imagine if, in addition, we repeat some. Mr. Fernández, I mean, we are delighted to take this opportunity to speak positively about the rural environment of Galicia. But, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez, what do you have against Coren? I've already said it once: it's an international reference gold company in agri-food, of which six thousand families have direct or indirect incomes. What's bothering you about Coren? Instead of assuming what we have in Ourense... I don't understand, really. Are we trying to bet on the modernization of agricultural and livestock production structures? Of course, yes, totally in favor, how are we going to deny the modernization of the Greek field? Moreover, Mr Fernández, in us you will always find a firm ally on this issue; I do not know the other groups, seeing what they are voting on in the various initiatives or seeing the amendments they make in the budgets. Modernisation of agricultural holdings is an essential element of sustaining and increasing the capacity to compete in markets, to preserve the environment and to improve the living and working conditions of farmers and their families. What are we doing? What is the German Government doing? Because it doesn't seem to be doing anything. Not pessimism, but the concealment of reality, neither. To help develop these objectives, there are two lines of help through the EAFRD: one for the installation of young farmers and livestock and a second line for the modernization of agricultural holdings. In the first instance, the installation of young people, grants aid to new farmers who first establish themselves on a new or pre-existing farm and who remain in agricultural activity for at least five years. The granting of this aid is subject to the presentation of a business plan — that is why it is a serious and rigorous aid — that demonstrates the viability of this project. It is granted up to a maximum of seventy thousand euros, starting from a basic count of twenty thousand euros. By the way, on public follow-up and annual results, we agree, because we approve the initiative. But will you accept them? Because, of course, when you ask the Government, both the general directors and the advisors, about our initiatives, and we give them the data of the new incorporations of the aid, you say they are false, they are not true. Then they will accept them if they help them and if they are in favour of their speech; otherwise they will say they are useless. We'll accept them say what they say. I would also like to take this opportunity from Mr. Fernández to deny some mantra that you repeat. For example, when they insist that the resources should be put back into the funds that the Bipartite used for the incorporation of young people: I say no, false, and I will prove it. Year 2007, number of files: 543; total aid: EUR 12.09 million; average aid per file: EUR 22,259. Year 2016, number of files: 618; aid in total million: 24.3 million; average aid per holding: EUR 39.362. If we're together for the last three years, we're talking about about about a thousand five hundred files with an average help of 36,150 euros, an increase of seventy-four percent in aid from what the two-party government gave. With regard to the second aid axis, the improvement plans for the modernization of the productive structures of the Greek farms, so as they say here, that can increase the territorial base, increase their yield and increase competitiveness with proper size, I mean that there is also a good line of aid and I want to compare to deny another mantra. Year 2007, average aid: EUR 20,649. 2017, average help: EUR 57,783, almost as much as three times as you did. I don't think they can come with that pessimistic and catastrophic speech. We never deny that there are problems, but we want to bet on solutions. And finished, Mr. President. I would like to remind you, before I finish, once again, that no request — I repeat, and I have said it more than once: no request — for the incorporation of young people or improvements in structures remains unmet for lack of public resources. And, therefore, we say, the People's Parliamentary Group says yes to modernization, yes to innovation and yes to the improvement of rural Greek. We have put forward many initiatives in this regard and, of course, we will vote again in favour of this proposal. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Blanco. Mr. Fernández Fernández has the floor on the author group of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u103	Thank you, President. Firstly, we would like to thank the support of all parliamentary groups: the Galician Nationalist Bloc, En Marea and also the People's Party. Mr. Blanco Paradelo, I see him continually saying: repetition and demand of the countryside. And I won't get tired of saying it in this camera, I won't get tired of saying it, because they need the presence of all the groups in view of their needs. See, the situation of milk merchants and industries is evolving positively, mainly in economic data. The situation in which they find themselves follows a negative evolution, and the socialists have already warned that the budgets of Galicia for 2019 are insufficient to reverse that situation. Budgets, of course, do not seem to reflect enough impulse to give a turn to this situation, and from our point of view, of course, do not match the "rural legislation." Ladies and gentlemen, at the plenary meeting on 26 March 2019, we read in this Chamber, with the acceptance of all groups, to an institutional statement for the benefit of the Greek milk sector. Let me extract the statement and extract the contents closest to the initiative we are discussing. The statement puts us first in the context: "The dairy sector is a strategic sector for Galicia and one of the pillars of the economic and demographic support of many rural districts. It's up to 1.7 % of the German GDP, but it has a real impact on the economy much higher by the strong bonding with other branches of activity." The statement also shows us the current situation in the dairy sector: "The sector has problems where we need to work together to ensure its future." "In industry, this is characterized by its structural weakness and its orientation towards simple derivatives,... clicking down the prices that producers receive." "Moreover, and as a mechanism for the joint strengthening of the sector, measures are needed to achieve an equitable distribution of value throughout the chain. Specifically, a modification of the milk package that eliminates existing asymmetries on the three links of the chain and facilitates the requirements for the formation of dairy producers' organisations." This parliament has committed itself to working on these lines, and in others, contained in the institutional declaration for the Greek milk sector.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u104	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u105	To conclude, we therefore need greater participation of producers in marketing and industrialization, taking into account the gap between production and industrialization of milk in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u107	Meeting these challenges should be a priority issue in Galicia for the high dependence on agricultural milk production, and the rural economy should have a strategic plan for milk production and industrialization.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u108	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u109	We will accept, speaking of amendments, the amendment of the BNG, incorporating it into our proposal not of law. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG112.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning.
